ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the new Minister of Security and Justice and the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I wish the Minister of Security and Justice much wisdom in his new position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am not quite sure whether I should congratulate the new Minister of Security and Justice on his new post, but at least I will. Congratulations! There are three legislative proposals on the agenda today. The draft law on the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism will be dealt with by me. My colleague Marnix van Rij will discuss the Dutch citizenship bill. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, since the beginning of this millennium, the Western world has been confronted with terrorist violence in the name of Islam. The 2016 attacks are in our memory, whether they were found in France, Belgium or Germany. Earlier attacks in these countries, in England, in Spain and in the United States also caused great disgust. The atrocities that are deliberately committed, the scars left behind by those affected, the disruptive effect on society and the undermining of confidence in each other, all justify a harsh response, not only repressive but also preventive. This action must, of course, respect essential values of the rule of law. Of course, where the limits of individual freedom lie and to which criteria public bodies are precisely bound by the rule of law, it is not certain once and for all. It's more of a question of balance. These balances must be constantly argued in the light of the concrete circumstances and in the light of the wider social context. Unfortunately, we are now forced to call into question existing balances. Fundamental rights, whether enshrined in the Constitution or in international treaties, are not absolute. They have limitation criteria, sometimes subject to formal standards, sometimes defined in substance, such as the importance of public order or national security or the rights of others, and often appear in a combination of both. Without giving an exhaustive exposé on the cross-compliance to be observed, measures must be justified in abstract and specific terms. They must be necessary and proportionate, appropriate for the purpose for which they were created and in any case ex post testable. In doing so, I would like to say straight away that my group has a positive attitude towards this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mrs Van Bijsterveld mentioned violence in the name of Islam in her introduction. Does she think there is Islamic violence, or is that something entirely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u4	That is not relevant to my speech on this bill. That is why I shall leave it to the text that I have just spoken. The proposal we are now discussing offers a substantial extension of administrative powers to take preventive action in the interests of, I quote, 'the protection of national security and the prevention of participation in or (financial) support for jihadism'. At a stage where criminal suspicion is not or is not yet at issue, administrative restrictions on freedom can be imposed. These may consist of an area ban, a restraining order, a notification obligation, an exit ban or combinations thereof. The Minister of Security and Justice may impose such a measure for the duration of six months and extend it for the same period. Decisions shall be open to judicial review. In addition, the Minister of Security and Justice may refuse or withdraw grants, permits, exemptions and approvals. It is therefore a matter of far-reaching measures. But my group has a positive attitude towards legislation that effectively contributes to preventing or combating terrorism. The question is, of course, whether it can no longer be achieved by simple means. In other words, the adoption of more or stricter legislation does not prevent or combat terrorism. In the written procedure, my group pointed to the events surrounding the attack in Brussels in 2016. It soon became clear that one of the persons concerned would have travelled from Turkey to Belgium via the Netherlands. Because of a lack of communication, this turned out to be only afterwards and not at a time when the person concerned could still be stopped. During the asylum influx of 2015, the government expressed reassuring words about, among other things, good entry registration to prevent any terrorist threat. Later it appeared that there was hardly any effective registration at that time. The suspected perpetrator of the destruction at the Christmas market in Berlin in December 2016 was found in Italy by chance a few days later. A few days later it appeared that he had travelled effortlessly through the Netherlands and France. What I mean by that is not that additional measures are unjustified for this reason, but that they only make sense when the more simple already in order. My group has doubts about this. Of course, mistakes are made everywhere. However, I am referring to something of a more structural nature. There is also a clear, concrete relationship here with the current legislative proposal. After all, this allows for an exit ban. This is intended to make it impossible to leave the Schengen area when there is a well-founded suspicion that the person concerned has the purpose of joining a designated terrorist organisation. This ban can therefore only be maintained in the Schengen area, not at national level. But there is one other thing: my group understands that there is no systematic control of that exit. Only the possibility of random checks exists. To put it simply: if that is the right thing to do, I would like to hear the Minister on this matter, then the ban at the moment is not good and you have said nothing about it, domestically. The Minister has explained that this is being done at European level, but this response to our question did not give us the immediate confidence that this could be expected in the short term. Or does my group see this wrong? And what is the situation in the Schengen area with the coordination of the detection of terrorist suspects, as in the case of the suspected perpetrator of the attack on the Christmas market in Berlin? In the first days of January of this year, a message came in the news that international bus and train service providers thought about it for reasons of security travellers when booking a trip to ask for identification. Some of these trips can hardly be booked in person; they are increasingly booked on the Internet. This simply means that it is becoming increasingly complicated for ordinary travellers to organise such an international bus or train journey; apart from the possibility that identification data may fall into the wrong hands. Then why not simply have a border check? Why is that such a taboo? There is another enforcement dimension: the capacity of detection, including in the prevention phase. According to the Minister, the proposals do not impose a high level of capacity on financial and material resources. However, it is well known that without these proposals, the police will be deprived of human resources. How then is the impact of these proposals guaranteed? After all, they are not intended to constitute merely a paper threat. My group also has a few questions about the content of the proposal itself. For the prohibition of territory and contact and the obligation to notify, the legislative proposal applies the criterion that they are necessary for the protection of national security and are aimed at the person "who can be associated with or support terrorist activities on the basis of his conduct." Why has the Minister not so far wished to respond to the wishes of many, including the Advisory Section of the Council of State, to define or frame the concepts of 'terrorist activities' and'support for them', while maintaining some scope for interpretation? Why is "terrorist activities" not linked to existing legal definitions? Or does the Minister do that anyway? And what does the Minister mean by "can be associated with"? With regard to the measures of refusal or withdrawal of grants, licences, exemptions or approvals, can the Minister elaborate on the relationship between the subsidies, licences, exemptions or recognitions and the terrorist activities for which there is concern? In particular, it does not always seem clear to demonstrate the predictability of a measure. Or does my group see this wrong? The use of a wide range of administrative powers can be balanced by a robust ex post judicial review. In order to carry out that review, it is necessary to provide a statement of reasons for the contested decision. Is the legislative proposal in all cases required to inform the person against whom the measure is addressed of the precise reasons for the imposition of the measure? That may be sensitive, for the sake of national security. If not, how is this to be dealt with by judicial review? This has not become entirely clear from the previous reply in the documents. Is this also a dimension that the Minister takes with him in the evaluation of the bill? My group awaits with interest the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u5	Madam President. Following on from what my colleague, Mrs Van Bijsterveld, has just done, I would also like to congratulate the new Minister for Security and Justice, in full knowledge that he did not directly undertake this function. This bill is part of the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme, which was submitted to the House of Representatives on 29 August 2014. The attacks of the last two years in France, Belgium, and Germany show how our free Western society is threatened by brutal terrorism, as advocated by ISIS and related organisations. This bill aims to adapt the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in such a way as to give the Minister the power to withdraw, in the interests of national security, the Netherlandserschap of a person who has reached the age of 16 and is outside the Kingdom, if his conduct shows that he has joined a terrorist organisation participating in a national or international conflict. It is essential to pose a threat to national security, according to Article 14 (4) of the bill. At the same time, the provision shall be adapted that nationality shall automatically lapse if a person voluntarily enters foreign military service of a State involved in acts of combat against the Kingdom or against the alliance of which the Kingdom is a member. The CDA Group supports the bill. However, the group considers it necessary for some clarification to be given by the government. The bill allows the Minister to carefully balance interests if terrorist fighters move outside the territory of the Netherlands and consider returning to the Netherlands. At the moment, only criminal prosecution is an option. In order to prevent a suspect from being a member of a terrorist organisation, after all, a criminal offence is contemplating returning to the Netherlands in order to commit an attack, this law provides a necessary supplement. After all, this is a matter of administrative law. The Minister may decide to withdraw from the Netherlands and declare the person concerned an undesirable alien. This instrument can only be used for Dutch people with dual nationality, because no one can be declared stateless under international law. For the CDA Group, the following elements are important: effectiveness, proportionality, remedies and the relationship with the Constitution and international law. The CDA Group would like to present two cases. Suppose, an unmarried jihadist 21-year-old Syrian citizen with Dutch and Syrian nationality decides to return to the Netherlands after two years of fighting for the terrorist organization ISIS. The intelligence services have sufficient evidence that fighting has taken place and that (war) crimes have been committed. After a lot of wandering around, he ends up in Turkey. According to reports in the Dutch press, he indicates through his family that he wants to return to the Netherlands in order to be subject to prosecution under Dutch criminal law. Apparently, he would have repented, too. This is case one. Then case two. Same case. All circumstances are the same, with one big difference. There is strong evidence that the person concerned from the Netherlands wishes to continue to engage in the jihadist cause of ISIS, where the use of force, including on Dutch territory, is apparently considered necessary. The question now is how will the balance of interests take place in both cases? Can the Minister comment more specifically on this and also indicate in what case or what cases he would like the use of a criminal and/or administrative instrument to prevail and why? Does it make any difference if the Syrian is married and has a family? And how is it weighed if the Syrian is underage, say 17 years? Does it also play a role in the balance of interests or in withdrawing Dutch citizenship and declaring an undesirable stranger known whether the other country, in this case Turkey, is actually prosecuting? How does the Dutch Government exchange information in this case and how is it prevented that the Syrian person, if his Dutch identity is withdrawn, will still enter the Schengen area? As regards the possibilities of appeal, the strange figure here is that the State itself is most likely to appeal against its own decision in most cases, in the interest of the traveller concerned. Can the Minister explain again why he thinks this is necessary? Following the Van Toorenburg amendment, the members of the CDA Group believe that if the interested party is unable to appeal, his family should do so up to the fourth degree living in the Netherlands. Shouldn't that be enough? In addition, the CDA Group is not convinced that a registry fee should not be charged. Can the Minister also comment on this? Finally, can the Minister explain briefly and clearly why, in his view, the new instrument is not contrary to the Constitution and Foreigner's Law, in particular Article 67 (1) introductory wording and point (c) of Union law (Rottmann judgment), the European Convention on Human Rights (Article 8) and the European Convention on Nationality (Article 7)? We look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing three proposals from the government, which the government describes as anti-terrorism measures. If these laws are passed, it will be possible to take back returning jihadists from the Netherlands, to ban terrorists from contacting us and to hold you, chairman, because it will be exciting to take the passport or identity card of a terrorist. You understand, President, the terrorists, the jihad-goers, the fifth column in the Netherlands: they are all shaking. Or do you think like me, they're laughing at me? They are butter-smooth measures. The Netherlands, as part of the free West, is engaged in a war. We Dutch are losing the Netherlands. I taste little will to conquer the Netherlands again. The Netherlands must be ours again. The cabinet and the elite want us to believe that it will not be such a rush. But if you take it from me, Madam President, millions of Dutch people know better. The sociologist Ruud Koopmans knows better too. He investigated the degree of fundamentalism in six European countries. He says that half of all Muslims in the world, i.e. at least 500 million Muslims, adhere to an intolerant form of Islam and that between 50 million and 100 million Muslims in the world accept violence, including violence against civilians, to defend true Islam. In the Netherlands, that is at least 100,000 people. 100,000 Muslims within our own Dutch borders find it okay to kill what they call "apostates," it is okay to hate homosexuals, Jews and Christians and do not believe that women have the same rights as men. Just a year ago, we had a debate in this Chamber on a similar subject. At that time, the government was given the opportunity to withdraw from the Netherlands in the event of committing or preparing terrorist activities. In that debate, I advocated a package of measures on behalf of the PVV. I called on the Minister to make more haste with the introduction of firm anti-terror laws. With the danger of repeating: the laws proposed today are not strong enough and haste is still not made. Who's to blame? To this cabinet. But these three legislative proposals are also clearly the responsibility of this Chamber itself. This First Chamber itself is partly responsible for the fact that between the votes in the Lower House and the debate here today there are more than nine months. Nine long months. Nine months in which the Netherlands did not have a number of anti-terrorist measures. Even if they're butter soft, better than nothing, I think. In the relevant committee, I have argued for a speedy settlement, but too many parties in this Chamber are apparently unwilling to provide the Netherlands with adequate anti-terrorist measures quickly. Because of these left-wing parties, Dutch people, ordinary Dutch people, women and children, are unnecessarily at risk. For this, these parties in this Chamber must be deeply and deeply ashamed. The newly elected president Trump has announced that he will come forward with a plan to defeat ISIS within one month. Where is the ambition of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet to protect our citizens? My questions to the Minister of Security and Justice are as follows today. What legislative proposals is this minister going to submit to the Second and First Chambers in order to better protect the Netherlands from Islamic terrorism? Can the Minister investigate what anti-terrorist measures have been taken by England, Australia, Israel and the United States and what measures are different from those we have taken here in the Netherlands? My party, the PVV, has long advocated measures that are not butter-soft. Since we know what the problem is, is it not so difficult to come up with a solution? It is clear that the Netherlands must de-islamize. Surely it is clear that the greatest common denominator of terrorism is Islam? Surely it is clear that this cabinet and too many parties, including in this Chamber, are about that? It is clear that we should no longer allow immigrants from Islamic countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u7	I need to take a great deal of distance from what Mr Markuszower is saying here about the direct connection between Muslims and terrorism. I hope that he will keep these two separate in the rest of his speech, because those two are not related.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u8	Did you hear a question, Madam President? If not, I shall continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u9	It's not about what I heard, it's about what you heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u10	I didn't hear a question. Then I'll keep going. Where was I? It is clear that we should no longer allow immigrants from Islamic countries. Don't we know there's nothing more for asylum seekers? We know our borders must be closed, don't we? We know that the residence permits already granted for asylum must be withdrawn for a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u11	I have heard Mr Markuszower's party on several occasions stand up for the Jewish-Christian roots of our country. Now I hear Mr Markuszower say quite clearly that there is no more immigrant from a Muslim country, while we know very well that there are large minorities, sometimes even small minorities, who are extremely threatened there. Does this mean that the PVV says to all the people who are threatened there, whether it be gays, women, Christians, Jezidis or anyone else, no, you come from a Muslim country, door closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you for the question. Firstly, the PVV in this Chamber is actually the only party that really stands up. It is a pity that Mrs Bikker's party does not do so for, for example, the Christian victims of Islamic violence, especially in the Middle East. Secondly, Mrs Bikker could have read that President Trump has been able to do it again today, and he is doing more than this whole cabinet in one week in five years to create safe zones in those countries himself. It would be commendable if Mrs Bikker's party would also support these proposals here in the Netherlands and keep the Netherlands free from migrants from Islamic countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u13	I have still not heard what Mr Markuszower's party will do. He's talking about the Republican party in America. I still see some difference between those parties, but I'll find out when a brother bond is formed. Apart from that, Mr Markuszower says: we have done a great deal for Christians in the Middle East. I would very much like to see this reflected in his party's voting behaviour, for example in the case of motions tabled by my group. But I am most concerned that Mr Markuszower says again at the end of his speech: that is why we are closing the door to all migrants from Muslim countries. That is where the minorities are sitting in the door. I still do not hear what specific solution Mr Markuszower is offering them. Does the door open or close for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u14	If Mrs Bikker were to see how many Christians are left throughout the Middle East, she would not be so relaxed here today. It's terrible how much murder has happened. The whole Christian community of the Middle East, which used to be entirely Christian, is no longer. It's Islam. My party does not want that development in the Netherlands. That is why I hope that Mrs Bikker's party, which also claims to stand up for Christian values, will support us in closing the borders for people from those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mrs Bikker, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u16	I think it is almost personal that Mr Markuszower says that I am'relaxed' while I know that there are brothers and sisters in this way I experience that suffering because of their faith, but that is precisely why I am making myself strong for the freedom of faith of everyone, including in this country. It also makes me strong for an open door for people fleeing dictators instead of closing the door on them. The latter is not merciful, it is cold. That's just thinking about yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u17	Unfortunately, among the many so-called refugee flows, there are many potential terrorists. It is important that we protect our own country, our own inhabitants, our own Christians and Jews and anyone who does not want to be victims of Islamic violence. I'm continuing my argument. We know that the residence permits already granted for asylum must be withdrawn for a certain period of time. Isn't it high time to put radical Muslims away preventively? Surely it is too crazy for words that we have still not introduced administrative detention in the Netherlands for those who can be associated with terrorist activities? Surely it is not for anyone to explain that double-national criminals are not being denaturalised and expelled from our country? Who in the Netherlands still understands why the daily street terror is not being tackled hard? That street terror is also part of the jihad against the free West, against the Netherlands. The Asscher/Rutte cabinet is champion importer of jihadists. In that context, I do not wish to deny you the following. My party leader, Mr Wilders, received a testimony this week from an azc employee. She wrote that she recently took her Moroccan friend to the azc to volunteer there. He speaks Arabic and the inhabitants of that azc... the residents who want to continue to bring Mrs Bikker here... did not know that. He heard the most disgusting conversations of asylum seekers there. An asylum seeker said he wanted to rape an asylum worker and then kill her. Another asylum seeker said that all fucking Westerners must die and that the Netherlands will be theirs within a few years. Another resident said: we are going to rest here first and then together take the Netherlands away from the Dutch. These aren't refugees, Mrs Bikker. These are jihadists pretending to be refugees. These are jihadists, who have brought in the PvdA, the VVD and, as we just heard, also the Christian Union in recent years with a red carpet and want to keep bringing in. These are jihadists who think the Netherlands is going to become theirs. But it is almost March 15th: the day that the Netherlands can choose for my party, the PVV. This is the only party that says: The Netherlands will be ours again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u18	I would like to say that the Netherlands is already ours. Mr Markuszower talks to me about what I would think of refugee policy. I would stress that I can make my own point of view, and that that is not the way he is now framing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u19	Are you ready, Mr Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u20	If it's all right with Mrs. Bikker, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u21	Mrs Bikker has nothing to say about that, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u22	Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. We would like to welcome both ministers to the Chamber. At the beginning, I must say that I am going to miss Minister Van der Steur. My group has always worked well with him. We look back with appreciation at the substantive debates we have had with him here. Of course, I wish the new Minister all the strength and success. All governments must be alert to the possibility of terrorist attacks and, as far as possible, use a policy aimed at preventing them. In recent years, the PvdA Group has supported many of the relevant legislative and policy programmes. With each measure, we have to look from a legal point of view at the value added, the necessity, proportionality and feasibility. From that institution, my group is happy to contribute today to the debate on the three anti-terrorist legislative proposals put forward by the government. First of all, I should like to comment on the most far-reaching proposal, No. 34356. This proposal of state law goes well beyond Bill No. 34016 to extend the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of its role in terrorist crimes, which we adopted last year as Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law and which had as its basis an irrevocable criminal conviction. After all, this new proposal of state law allows the Minister of Security and Justice to withdraw without prior criminal conviction the Dutch citizenship of alleged jihadists who have joined a terrorist organisation abroad. The assumption is that on returning to the Netherlands jihadists pose a direct threat to national security. Since statelessness is prohibited under international law, the scope of the proposal is limited to persons of multiple nationality. As we have already indicated in the written consultation, the right to nationality is one of the most fundamental human rights. The ministers undoubtedly agree with us on this. This right is enshrined in, inter alia, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The European Convention on Nationality states that loss of nationality is permitted only in the event of conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State party to the Convention. Does the Minister of V and J agree that this phrase,'serious harm to the essential interests of the State', constitutes a threshold clause? If my group takes a look at the legislative proposal on this basis, it comes to the conclusion that this is the case if a person voluntarily enters foreign military service of a state involved in combat against the Kingdom or against an alliance of which the Kingdom is a member, as Article 14 (3) of the bill stipulates. It is more unclear for my group in paragraph 4. I quote: "In the interests of national security, our Minister may withdraw the Dutch identity of a person who has reached the age of sixteen and who is outside the Kingdom, if his conduct shows that he has joined an organisation which, in accordance with the sentiments of the National Council of Ministers, has been placed on a list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict and is a threat to national security." Does my group see it right that it contains a broader and less clear definition which therefore gives the Minister, without the intervention of the court, a great discretion to take away one of the most fundamental fundamental fundamental rights of a citizen? Indeed, the wordings "interest of national security" and "threat to national security" appear to be wider than the threshold clause "serious harm to the essential interests of the State." In my group's view, the words'serious harm' contained in the European Convention on Nationality constitute a more serious violation than simply a reference to 'interest of' or 'threat to'. I ask the Minister of V and J to respond to that. I also ask whether the words 'if his conduct shows that he has joined' are sufficiently clear and precise to satisfy that high threshold clause of seriously damaging the essential interests of the State. In our Code of Criminal Law, participation in a terrorist organisation and preparatory acts for a terrorist offence or support in committing a terrorist offence have already been criminalised and these serious offences may already constitute grounds for depriving the Netherlands of the Dutch citizenship of persons of multiple nationality. Given that criminal convictions against persons of multiple nationality on the basis of 140a and 134a Sr have not yet taken place, I should therefore like to ask the Minister of V and J how appropriate, how necessary, how proportionate this far-reaching bill is, namely to deprive a person's Dutch citizenship without criminal conviction, and then only of persons of multiple nationality. To this crucial question my group adds the legal protection aspect. After all, a prior criminal conviction is not necessary, the person concerned does not need to be heard first, the legislative proposal has retroactive effect, there is no intervention by the court, there is no provision for a fair hearing by an independent body prior to the revocation decision, and in any subsequent proceedings only the court and not the lawyer has access to the underlying information of the security services. This is giving up a whole series of fair trial standards that have a rule of law as ours on high. I repeat my question to the Minister: how necessary, how proportional, how legal is all this? One of the aims of the legislative proposal is to prevent the person concerned from returning to the Netherlands and, apparently, to prevent the person concerned from being prosecuted and tried elsewhere for any crimes he may have committed. Does this not place the issue of security, possible persecution and trial, and then re-socialization, rather roughly, in the country of other nationality? How fair, how solidarity with other countries and their national and international security is this? To what extent should the Minister, in exercising his discretion, consider where the person lives and where his family life and social rooting are, the so-called genuine link? If that is the Netherlands, doesn't the government have the right to take back such a person and even get back, interrogate and, if necessary, prosecute and prosecute, rather than encourage the person concerned to wander through countries that will often not easily get a hold of that person because of a weak judicial system? In doing so, my group would also like to emphasise the position of minors. They too may go wrong by joining a terrorist organisation on a temporary basis or not. The aim of this bill is to prevent them from ever taking another step in the Netherlands. In fact, according to the detailed reply, the Government uses the principle that the withdrawal decision is, in principle, irreversible. There may be good reasons for this, but I would ask the Minister of V and J how this could lead to tension with the rights of the child under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, in particular the principle that the child's interest should always be the starting point, and tension with the fundamental right to family life, as laid down in the ECHR and other human rights conventions. This concerns both the child and the father or mother if their behaviour falls within the scope of the legislative proposal. The second bill, 34359, is the national counterpart of the first. Indeed, while the first proposal concerns Dutch people of multiple nationality who are in conflict areas, the second concerns citizens who are in the Netherlands and who may be associated with or support terrorist activities on the basis of their behaviour. It is proposed to impose a notification obligation, a ban on territory, a ban on contact or an exit ban on them as a temporary administrative measure where this is necessary for national security. Once again, we are asking about the necessity, proportionality, the rule of law and the feasibility of these administrative measures in relation to the existing criminal and administrative instruments. The explanatory statement states that the new measures and powers are needed because of the new threat posed by the possible exit and return of foreign fighters. The first is how and to what extent the existing instruments have proved inadequate. What study, what practical experience are the basis for this? We were pleased to read in the further reply on page 16 that a criminal approach to terrorism is the government's starting point and that the measures provided for in this bill are purely complementary and preventive. Does my group understand that the imposition of administrative measures against a person will almost by definition also involve criminal investigations against the person concerned? In these cases, does this not lead to a combination of the administrative and criminal approach to counter-terrorism? Does the Minister ultimately have a preference for the criminal road or does he see it differently? From various organisations, including the Council of State, Amnesty International and the Human Rights College, there has been a strong criticism that the bill does not clearly indicate on the basis of which behaviour and possible preparation of a terrorist offence can severely restrict the human rights of an individual through the imposition of administrative measures. This "in the interests of national security" is already such a broad understanding and is considerably more vague than, for example, the concept of "terrorist threat." My group's question to the Minister is how he intends to prevent the measures being applied lightly and thereby to infringe the rights of the person concerned in an unnecessary and disproportionate manner. Thirdly, my group is keen that the measures, however unintentional, do not contribute to stigmatisation and discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Our fourth point concerns judicial review. I ask the Minister of V and J why, under all circumstances, he rejects a prior test by the judge. Would it not be better to adopt a more differentiated and tailor-made approach, something which is not the rule under the General Administrative Law law but not impossible under it? A fifth and final point concerns the use of classified information. My group understands that it is sometimes inevitable to use secret information that cannot be shared with the person concerned. However, it is important to exercise restraint in order not to put the citizen concerned and his lawyer at a huge disadvantage in court proceedings. A fundamental principle is that the court should rule on the basis of documents known to all parties to proceedings. My group would like to hear from the government what policy it intends to pursue in dealing with secret information in order to limit the violation of citizens' rights to what is strictly necessary and proportionate. As in the written consultation with my group, the fate of the third legislative proposal, No. 34.358, Amendment of the Passport Act relating to the automatic revocation of travel documents of persons subject to an exit ban, all linked to the entry into force of the second legislative proposal, namely that on temporary administrative measures to combat terrorism. My group now has no questions about this, particularly with regard to time. We look forward with interest to the response of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Minister Blok on the fact that he is, in the short term, in a position to take over the defence of the present legislative proposals from his predecessor. I also wish him a great deal of strength and wisdom in the Ministry of Security and Justice, which is now considered the most politically unsafe place in The Hague. Brussels, Paris, Paris, Brussels, Istanbul, Nice, Berlin, it is a selection of the attacks committed by IS in European countries and in Turkey. It hit people waiting for their planes, people at a Christmas market, people in a concert hall. This sad row could be expanded with many smaller and larger attacks, committed in the name of a fanatical Islamic movement, which uses death and destruction to establish an alleged state of salvation. The government has proposed various policies to combat such terrorist movements. This includes the three legislative proposals that we are discussing today. The SGP fully supports the direction of these proposals, but we still have a number of criticisms. First of all, the Temporary Act on administrative measures to combat terrorism. It is striking that this legislative proposal only applies for five years. Of course, we all sincerely hope that the terrorist threat will be over in five years' time, but it is not realistic. We therefore find the five-year deadline, particularly in the light of the important issue of the fight against terrorism, a strange choice. But even if you were in line with this deadline, the question remains how real it is to impose measures under this law in the fifth or perhaps even the fourth year of that period. The Minister himself states that the imposition of a measure only makes sense until the end of the five-year period. Does a measure imposed still have a deterrent effect in the fifth year? When does the Minister see a successful law that should therefore continue to function? Another question concerns the concept of 'national security'. The imposition of measures should be related to acts of terrorism. However, it remains remarkable that the concept of 'national security' is mentioned here. Indeed, it may well be a case of behaviour which is mainly directed towards another country. In the strict sense, there is in any case no focus on national security. The government is seeking a solution by explaining the concept of "national security" broadly: a person who targets terrorist behaviour, for example, in France, would act contrary to Dutch national security. This will undoubtedly be possible, but not in all cases. We therefore find this choice unsatisfactory and would like to have a more detailed explanation of this point. Two points call for attention, which are linked to both the temporary law and the Passport Act. First of all, the scope of the exit ban. The Minister stated in the Lower House that it was not possible to control national borders and that therefore the Schengen area was chosen. It remains odd that countries such as France and Germany should opt for such a measure and that it would be impossible in the Netherlands. It seems logical to the SGP that, if other countries can deny people access to their country, it should also be possible to sign on the identity card that someone is allowed to travel only within the Netherlands. Of course, it is not impossible for someone to cross the border after all, but when they are arrested, it is immediately clear that this person must be arrested. I would like to clarify very quickly the precise possibilities for achieving such a limit, as in the Van der Staaij and others motion adopted. is requested. Finally, with regard to these proposals, I would like to say something about the enforcement at the external borders of the Schengen area. The system of checking passports and possible revocation is certainly not yet waterproof. What is the state of play with regard to systematic checks on passports? Is there a systematic check of passports on the basis of the systems as soon as possible? Finally, specifically for the Passport Act, we have a question about the situation in which someone has two passports. One will then be declared void, but that does not mean that someone can still travel on the basis of his second passport. Is it technically possible for a person whose Dutch passport has expired to be registered with an automatic alert if he or she uses his or her second passport? After all, we must avoid undermining the passport measure as much as possible. Already in May 2013, former MP Dijkhoff asked for a bill to take over the Netherlands in participation in a terrorist organisation. The speed with which the proposal has reached us is inversely proportional to the urgency you might expect in the threat to national security. If we delay much longer, IS will be reported by the time the bill comes into force. The Dijkhoff motion mentioned the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship from foreign military service. The SGP regrets that we have not been closer to that provision. If I see it correctly, the loss ground in foreign military service is wider in nature. Entering into strange military service is enough, while this bill calls for a strict test of national security. Is that an assessment? And if so, why does the government not consider it necessary in foreign military service to strictly assess the importance of national security? The government states that the return of dangerous persons can never be prevented 100%. This suggests that the proposed system is virtually waterproof. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation of that assessment. Is it not much more likely that this group, with the sanction in mind, will often manage to enter the Kingdom again unseen? The government indicates that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship will also automatically lead to an junk declaration. It repeatedly refers to the powers of junk declaration under Article 67 of the Foreigner's Act. In that light, I ask why this obligation is not enshrined in the law. Finally. We all know the experience of citizens that public services sometimes sound a bit sad. You get the promise that you will be called back, while then it remains deafeningly silent or you will be dealt with very formalistly in due course. That's a risk to ordinary citizens. Terrorists do not have to be afraid of that. The Minister will challenge his own decision before the judge if a terrorist does not make a timely appeal, even if he does not want to. This means that Islamic terrorists are waiting for a double paradise, because in addition to the walhalla they are being presented as delusional, this bill envisages a legal walhalla. The proposal has the appearance of civilisation in this respect, which is the ultimate rule of law, but I would nevertheless like to ask whether this cannot be a symbol of an increasing weakness in our legal culture. Couldn't the highest right also lead to the highest injustice here? In any case, let us hope that there will never be an attack by a recurring terrorist for whom the Minister has successfully brought his own decision on his own initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour and pleasure of expressing this contribution not only on behalf of the D66 Group but also on behalf of the OSF. Mr Ten Hoeve even read the contribution in advance, because he had to leave now. I would like to welcome the new Minister of V and J. I wish him a great pleasure on behalf of the OSF Group and a great deal of strength on behalf of the D66 Group, although this could have been the case in reverse; both. I also agree with what Mr Schrijver said about Ard van der Steur. I would like to make a few general comments before I come to the legislative proposals. It goes without saying that the fight against jihadism, or in the formulation of the cabinet, is not easy. Jihadist networks have different forms and practices. These differences are related to contextual factors, such as the use of new media and the changes in the geopolitical situation, for example in and around Syria. These factors then influence the spread of ideological rhetoric and the choice of battle zones. Another complication is that an evaluation of national counter-terrorism policies shows that the effects of this policy are particularly difficult to assess. The apparent effects may also have been caused by other factors. This is linked to the fact that, as a result of the strategy of an integrated approach, different public partners combine and deploy different instruments at the same time. As a result, it is difficult to allocate an effect, such as the non-exit to Syria, to one specific measure, such as the withdrawal of a passport. This complexity influences an adequate assessment of the focus, robustness and legitimacy of the joint intervention capacity of governments, police and aid organisations. The findings of this evaluation study are therefore not easy. Firstly, the broad strategy offers unintended scope for selective use of resources. Secondly, the partners release each other in times of alleged or actually reduced urgency. Thirdly, the capacity of the various partners is fluctuating strongly and fourthly, the coordination envisaged by the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security does not prevent the emergence of role conflicts. It can be concluded that the development and deployment of instruments aimed at combating terrorism and jihadism should be carried out in a careful and coherent manner. Symbol politics, based on superficial analysis and supported by powerful language, makes a society more unsafe than safer. The context of counter-terrorism remains complex. Threat developments are difficult to predict, partner organisations remain diverse in nature and the accumulated expertise ages rapidly. Investment in counter-terrorism therefore calls for a strategy that is targeted, secured and supported. Our groups have repeatedly expressed concern in this Chamber about the ongoing flow of legislative proposals with different repressive measures to combat crime and terrorism. Not rarely did the political will prove stronger than the responsibility to look at the need, added value and the state of law of this type of legislative proposal. I refer to the legislation to extend the scope for detection and prosecution of terrorist offences, the criminalisation of participation in and participation in training for terrorism, the financing of terrorism and the extension of the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands. In addition, several of the offences have been described in more detail and have since been allowed for more criminal offences to be remanded. As a result, the resources for deprivation of liberty have been increased, including for less serious forms of security threat. In addition to these extended criminal acts, new administrative measures of a freedom-limiting nature have been developed for cases where there is no criminal act or its preparation. In addition, the possibilities of violating privacy have increased. As a result, the traditional values of Dutch criminal proceedings, which have been cherished for many years, have lost considerable significance over a period of ten years. Our political groups deplore this development and also base this feeling on the assessment of the proposals currently before us. These three legislative proposals have undergone a formidable written examination and preparation. Nor has my group been unsatisfied in this regard. I would like to thank the Minister for the largely comprehensive and satisfactory response to our input. For this reason, I should like and should like to confine myself today to a few key issues. I would like to begin with the proposal on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. The basic idea behind this proposal is that this measure could prevent persons who have joined an organisation which is a threat to national security from returning to the Netherlands. It follows that the person concerned is not legally resident as a foreigner. The groups of D66 and OSF consider that the withdrawal of Dutch nationality in the interests of national security in itself meets a reasonable and understandable objective. However, the proposal has raised many questions for our groups. This is a right recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 7 of the European Convention on Nationality illustrates that a State can only deprive citizens of their nationality in a strictly defined number of cases. Our groups read in it a principle on the basis of which nationality is a fundamental right, which must not be ignored. To what extent does the government still recognise the fundamental importance of citizens' rights to nationality, I would like to ask the Minister. The key question is what exactly is the added value of the proposed measures. Our Code of Criminal Law now has the possibility to withdraw Dutch nationality on the basis of Article 205, which refers to recruitment for foreign military service or armed combat. The Code of Criminal Law also contains Article 140a, which criminalizes participation in a terrorist organisation. Then there is Article 83 of the Code of Criminal Law, which deals with the commission of a terrorist offence, and recently Article 134a, which criminalizes the aid and preparation of terrorist offences and allows the withdrawal of Dutch nationality. This allows prosecution for these crimes abroad and a conviction in absentia. However, the cabinet does not consider these and other criminal law instruments effective enough to protect national security. For this reason, a return to the Netherlands must be made more difficult. We would like to ask the Minister once again to argue this supposed added value. We ask him to include the risk that the withdrawal of Dutch nationality will force jihad fighters to stay abroad, so that traumatized and disillusioned persons cannot return. A related question is: what does this measure mean for the position of the Netherlands in international relations? The fight against terrorism calls for international coordination more than ever. For this reason, we ask ourselves all the more what the added value of this proposal is in that perspective. We would like to ask the Minister to address these points as well. A further question is whether the legal basis for the withdrawal of Dutch nationality set out in the proposal is sufficiently precise. In the preliminary stage, several sides have been asked to include in the law as clear a definition as possible of the criterion of "connecting with a terrorist organisation." At the initiative of the Council of State, the legislative proposal has been clarified on this point. Behaviour must show that someone has joined an organisation as referred to in the bill. Joining a terrorist organisation involves a combination of intent and conduct of acts against an identified terrorist organisation. I would ask the Minister to explain to what extent the inclusion and interpretation of the term 'behaviours' of a corresponding legal definition can be used. Indeed, "behaviour" is a broad concept, which may include a multitude of actions. I come to the quality of legal protection. There is no prior judicial review of the intention to withdraw the Dutch citizenship. Moreover, there is no effective legal remedy available to those concerned within an orderly administrative procedure, as laid down, inter alia, by the College of Human Rights. Indeed, there is no real possibility for active stakeholder participation. Do international standards not require an inviolable judge's ruling on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, such as De Groot and Vonk argue in the Magazine for Religion, Law and Policy? I would like to ask the Minister once again to respond to these supposed procedural weaknesses in the proposed regime. Finally, I come to the supposed discriminatory effect of this bill. In practice, the bill only affects Dutch people with dual nationality. This could lead to people having multiple nationalities being treated differently from those who have Dutch nationality only. To concerns and questions about the fairness of the proposal, the Minister has repeatedly replied that the legislative proposal does not alter the current situation, since the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship would not be possible if a person concerned became stateless. According to the Minister, it can be concluded that the legislative proposal does not, by definition, lead to an unjustified distinction. Also in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Minister sees no grounds for adopting an unjustified distinction. Our groups understand this reasoning, but we believe that the Minister is taking a strictly formal approach here. We would ask the Minister to argue to what extent the distinction between Dutch people with a single nationality and Dutch people with a multiple nationality does not lead to a form of indirect discrimination, which could then be materially at odds with Article 1 of the Constitution. I come to the legislative proposal on travel documents for persons who have been banned from travelling. I agree with what Mr Schrijver said about this. There has been such a detailed exchange of views in writing that I will not make any further comments on this matter for the sake of short notice. Finally, I come to the temporary law on the fight against terrorism. At its core, it proposes to create some administrative powers to protect national security in relation to persons who may be associated with or support terrorist activities as a result of their conduct. These are a number of restrictions of freedom, measures restricting freedom of movement, and special powers for rejecting applications. The restrictions on freedom of movement are based on the so-called football law: the obligation to notify, the ban on territory and the ban on contact or the ban on group activities. The new instrument of an exit ban is added to this. This proposal does not confer powers on the mayor, but on the Minister of Security and Justice. There has been a great deal of criticism of this proposal, by the Council of State, by the College of Human Rights and, for example, by Professor Schilder, because I happen to know him in De Gemestem. This criticism focuses on the need for the measures, their administrative nature, the lack of legal protection, the unclear legal application criterion and the over-infringement of existing human rights. After the written preparation, our political groups have found that some of the concerns raised by the government have been satisfactorily addressed. For example, our political groups believe that the use of criminal instruments to combat terrorism is in principle the most obvious. In the event of suspicion of a terrorist offence, criminal prosecution will be reason enough and criminal proceedings may be used. On its own, it is then conceivable that national security should seek protection in situations where the criminal route cannot be followed or cannot yet be followed, because a suspicion necessary for that purpose cannot be established or cannot yet be sufficiently established. In these cases, freedom-limiting administrative measures can provide a solution on their own. Moreover, they do not prevent criminal proceedings from being brought at a later stage. However, our political groups do not believe that the introduction of a prior judicial test is really possible. Administrative measures are open to legal protection as laid down in the General Administrative Law Act. The administrative system of legal protection is based on judicial review of decisions taken and, in principle, in most cases, not on planned decisions, provided that they are not specifically laid down as such in the legislation. Decisions taken by the Minister in this context can then be annulled by the courts on the basis of legality criteria. In view of this, it must be noted that, of course, there is no real equality of arms, for example, because of the lack of the right to access secret documents. My question to the Minister is: could we not work with a screened trust lawyer here? A related concern is the lack of supervision. Would it not be appropriate to continue to compensate for the lack of legal protection mentioned by extending the tasks of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, as was the case with the amendment in the context of the draft law repealing Dutch citizenship? In this context, I would like to refer to the article An unequal battle, by the professors Brouwer and Schilder in Criminal Journal, Magazine for Science and Practice. Our groups have great reservations about the effectiveness of the proposed powers. We believe that the expectations regarding the application of the reporting obligation, the territorial exclusion and the ban on contact are not realistic and have a high symbolic content. In the fight against nuisance, these measures may have an effect, but we really wonder whether a terrorist will be prevented by such instruments. An important question is whether it can be established in advance that this type of measure could violate relevant fundamental rights. Our groups recognise that this is possible in principle as fundamental rights are not absolute. However, we also see that infringements of fundamental rights guaranteeing freedom of movement can only take place if applicable safeguards are met. That is where our groups have the necessary hesitations. Can the protection of national security be regarded as a legitimate objective? To be more precise, is this rather general criterion sufficiently strict to justify far-reaching infringements of freedom of movement? We find this rather undetermined. And does the criterion of "behaviour that may be associated with or support terrorist activities" sufficiently meet accessibility, predictability and proportionality requirements? We are not convinced of this either. The question is whether the Minister can justify decisions taken in the light of a reasonable balance of interests. In the reply, the Minister shall state, on request, that personal conduct will make it sufficiently plausible that the person concerned may be associated with or support terrorist activities. They must then be relevant expressions or actions of the person concerned. Our groups have not learned much from this. The government considers that the so-called requirement of necessity will provide sufficient guarantees for a firm obligation to state reasons, but that argument is not very valid. The justification that a measure is necessary does not provide the legal certainty that legislator and administration should provide from the point of view of proper legislation and good governance. Our groups would therefore very much appreciate a more detailed explanation of these questions. From what I have said, our groups still have a great deal of reservations and hesitation about these legislative proposals. This applies in particular to the proposal with the administrative measures. These are far-reaching measures and insufficiently limited powers, which, combined with inadequate legal protection and insufficient supervision, may have irreversible effects on citizens who are wrongly associated with terrorism and jihadism. We are also not convinced that the proposed powers will actually contribute to preventing terrorism. However, we are now waiting for the reaction of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group welcomes the new Minister for Security and Justice in this house and appreciates that he wishes to have this debate with the Upper House so soon after his appointment. The next item is the debate on three legislative proposals in the interests of national security and measures to combat terrorism. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the importance of combating terrorism. We must prevent acts of terror being committed here in the Netherlands, but also elsewhere. People who want to leave must know that joining the jihad fighters has irreversible consequences for them and does not go unpunished. This also applies to persons who facilitate the work of the jihad fighters. However, the Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the measures now proposed for the following three reasons will not remove the threat of terrorist activity and even present additional security risks. First of all, even after the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, the revocation of the travel document and the junk declaration, a person can come back to the Netherlands to commit an attack here, for example at a station. At best, the journey will be difficult. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, Mr Schoof, already stated in the AD last weekend that cooperation between criminals and jihadists is growing. He told us that Syrians already know where to get supplies and services when they return. This could include weapons and explosives, but also help, for example, to get into or out of the country unseen. There is a danger that these people will become illegal after the withdrawal of Hollanderschap and thus escape the sight of the security services. Secondly, following the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, the Netherlands has no until very limited jurisdiction to detect and prosecute the persons for crimes committed, because those persons are no longer Dutch and the possible offences have been committed outside the Netherlands. There may then only be universal jurisdiction for so-called international crimes, in particular genocide, crimes against humanity, torture and war crimes. That has to be proven first. In addition, other measures aimed at deradicalisation cannot be applied as a result of the repeal. Thirdly, there is a very real chance that the persons, even after an undesirable statement, will return to the Netherlands and stay here on the basis of the "family life" principle based on Article 8 of the ECHR, in case the families of those persons live here in the Netherlands, which will often be the case. Will the Minister address all three of these points? Can the Minister explain on what basis he bases this law on protecting national security and that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship will actually deter and discourage those involved from coming back to the Netherlands? If it cannot be demonstrated that the proposed measure of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship protects national security and is capable of creating additional security risks, then what is the justification for the measure of the withdrawal of nationality and the junkification of the person concerned? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, the Ministry and the investigation and intelligence services are reportedly busy investigating and prosecuting potential security risks. Many legal opportunities have been created in recent years to make this possible. In the meantime, there are 365 criminal investigations and 180 outbounds a year. However, no one in the Netherlands has yet been irrevocably convicted of a terrorist offence and no withdrawal of Dutch citizenship has yet taken place. The question that arises is whether the Dutch security chain is sufficiently equipped and able to conduct complex terrorist investigations. Or is the fight against terrorism also experiencing problems as a result of the police reorganisation and the cuts in the criminal justice chain? Can the Minister comment on this and explain why there is no irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence in the Netherlands? In the opinion of the SP Group, national and international security would benefit from the international surveillance and criminal prosecution of the Dutch travelling with a single and double nationality in order to prevent further acts of terrorism. It is important to prevent these people from becoming illegal and therefore disappearing outside the radar, particularly in view of the above-mentioned strong cooperation with criminals. It is precisely the legal existence that makes it possible to supervise these people. Does the Minister share the opinion of the SP Group? If not, why not? If we take away the Dutch nationality of jihad fighters and thus refuse them access to our country, we will shift the responsibility we have for these people and the security risk to another country. From an international perspective, it is safer to work together and to arrest and bring these people to justice. In the opinion of the SP Group, the bill does not, therefore, contribute to international solidarity by withdrawing Dutch citizenship and the junk declaration. Has the legislative proposals been coordinated in Europe and with countries such as Turkey and Morocco? This was not yet the case with the previous law on terrorism. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Then I come to the proportionality of the proposed administrative measures. Collective risks, such as terrorism and cross-border crime, have increased. There have been new dangers, for example through technological developments. The empowered citizen expects the government to take an active risk reduction or exclusion. Security needs to be enhanced through criminal law, resulting in a "risk criminal law." In our "risk society," criminal law is often used as an instrument for security policy and risk management. Criminal enforcement is more driven in risk criminal law by considerations of supposed effectiveness and general prevention than by retaliation. This use of criminal law as an instrument of risk management and security policy leaves deep traces and changes the criminal law's function and character. It is no longer a question of a criminal response to injustice already committed, but rather of avoiding risky behaviour. Many provisions which do not yet require damage must be enforced in criminal law. This was noted by the Ministry of Security and Justice in 2004. In addition to changing criminal law as an instrument of security policy, administrative law also suffers the consequences, with strict nuisance and security provisions. The present legislative proposals are examples of this. Administrative law and criminal law are closely related but separate jurisdictions, where the legislator has clearly wished to maintain a boundary between the two areas. The reference is made to Article 6 of Chapter 1 of the General Administrative Law Act, as can be seen in the aforementioned report of the Ministry of Justice. Criminal penalties can only be imposed after the intervention of an independent judge. Measures in administrative law shall not be reviewed by the courts until such time as an appeal has been lodged. Legal protection in administrative law is lower than that in criminal law. This is all the more true for the current draft law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, because the actual possibilities of opposing the decision in substance are limited. This is a very serious measure for the person concerned. For this reason, the SP Group and the Advisory Section of the Council of State are not convinced of the added value of the proposal in relation to the current criminal law possibilities and the proportionality of the proposal. In response to the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, the Minister states that he considers the infringement of the legal protection of the persons concerned necessary and proportionate in the light of the importance of protecting national security. Now that this cannot be demonstrated, the question is what still justifies the infringement of the rights of freedom. In this connection, the SP Group invites the Minister to clarify the above points. I come to the possibility of stigmatisation and indirect discrimination as a result of the legislative proposal. The joint declaration of 29 January 2017 from the Netherlands and Germany to the President of the United States, following the ban on entry imposed by him in the interests of national security, states that it is not Europe's policy to stigmatise people because of their origin or religion. In the letter received by the Cabinet about 2 November 2016 from the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Nils Muižnieks, Muižnieks warns that the legislative proposals at issue today may lead to, or may even contribute to stigmatisation and exclusion, as half of the Dutch citizens of dual nationality are of Turkish or Moroccan nationality. Only persons with a dual nationality can be deprived of Dutch citizenship. After all, EU law protects against statelessness. In the opinion of the SP Group, the legislative proposal is characterised by indirect discrimination, which can also lead to or even contribute to the stigmatisation and exclusion of these social groups. The Dutchmanship also gives a Dutchman political rights, right of residence, right to assistance and right to parole in the Netherlands. The fact that persons with a dual nationality do not become stateless after the loss of Dutch citizenship does not justify the loss of the rights associated with Dutch citizenship. This is reinforced by the fact that the proposed legislative proposal does not allow individuals to challenge the decision to withdraw Dutch citizenship and the junk declaration. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The SP Group looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to welcome the new Minister for Security and Justice. It's tough that he's running this Chamber as Minister of V and J with today's bill. I'm sure he'll be fine. Like the CDA Group, my group has chosen to have the proposals dealt with by two spokesmen. Mr Knip will deal with the bill on administrative measures to combat terrorism and I myself will deal with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. I'll start with that now. Persons travelling abroad and joining a terrorist organisation there are in principle no longer welcome in the Netherlands. The Minister is empowered to withdraw these persons from the Netherlands if they have a dual nationality. They are also declared undesirable in the Netherlands. After all, these people express their commitment to such an organisation that they do not shy away from violence. Much has already been written and debated about this bill. The VVD Group also raised a number of questions in the first and second rounds. These related to constitutional aspects, such as the guarantee in the procedure and the criteria for being able to speak of belonging to a terrorist organisation. There are still a number of points and questions that the VVD Group would like to raise. The first question concerns the public list compiled by the Minister of V and J on the basis, for example, of information provided by the intelligence and security services. Suppose an organisation was wrongly included on that list, for whatever reason, and suppose that a person of Dutch nationality who is abroad is a member of that organisation, how does this organisation get off the list? The inclusion on the list is not a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act. What if we can't get off that list? Suppose the Minister takes the decision to deprive the Dutch person who is a member of that organisation on the list of candidates of nationality, the judge will then review the legality of placing that organisation on that list in the course of the appeal that this person will undoubtedly bring? My second question concerns actual behaviour. The members of the VVD Group have previously asked how the actual behaviours from which it can be deduced that someone has joined a listed terrorist organisation are being identified. They have not yet received a clear answer. In the reply, the Government states that the factual grounds for a withdrawal must, of course, be established with sufficient certainty. How can the Minister determine that? When is there sufficient certainty? Will the government explain that again? That brings me to the issue of the voluntary nature of the actual conduct. Until 1985 the Act on Dutch citizenship and residence applied. This law provided in Article 7, paragraph 4, that the Dutchmanship is lost "by moving without Our leave into foreign military or state service." Thus, entering foreign military service resulted in the automatic loss of nationality. After World War II, the problem was that men of dual nationality, for example Turkish or South African, were subject to military service in the country of their second nationality. In response to questions raised by Parliament, the then Ministers of Defence and Justice replied that the relevant Article 7, paragraph 4, must be interpreted as meaning that there must be a requirement for total voluntary entry into foreign military service. How does the Minister assess the criterion of voluntaryity for taking his decision to deprive an emigrated jihadganger of Dutch citizenship? How does he determine that? How complete is this voluntaryness supposed to be? And how does he distinguish between naivety and full conviction? Finally, what happens to jihadists with only one nationality? They are also a direct threat to national security. Their nationality cannot be taken away. What additional measures can be taken to reduce the risk they may pose to national security? How can this group's intertwined jihadists be avoided with the underworld as much as possible? Mrs Wezel pointed out for a moment that last weekend's National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, which showed that jihadists are increasingly mixing with criminals, and that they are getting their weapons and explosives delivered through these criminals, among other things. They also help them to get in or out of the country without being seen. I would like to hear a further explanation from the government. My group would like to make the following point. In 1985 the Act on the Netherlands Society and Residence was replaced by the current Act on the Netherlands Society. In 2003 an amendment by Mr Verhagen/Dittrich added a provision which states that the Dutch citizenship is lost to a majority if he enters into voluntary service of a state involved in combat against the Kingdom or against an alliance of which the Kingdom is a member. However, acts of war no longer take place only from the state, but also from movements, groups and terrorist organisations. In my group's view, therefore, it seems obvious that a person who has joined an organisation on the list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict and threatening national security is also lost in the Netherlands. I'm rounding up. The VVD Group clearly sees the legal and human rights aspects of this bill. She doesn't close her eyes to that. In her final assessment, she points out that when it comes to legally withdrawing Dutch citizenship, the judge has the last word, not the minister. The threat of terrorist attacks is very serious to take. If you join an organization that aims to create fear and corruption, destabilise and disrupt a society and commit the most unimaginable, terrible acts of terror for that purpose, it is in itself a very serious violation of the rule of law, with great risks for large groups in Dutch society. Then it is right that the Dutch government should do everything possible to prevent these people from preparing attacks in Dutch society and to recruit other supporters to join them. For a final final verdict, my group is happy to wait for the government's answers. I would like to say to the government that the proposal is likely to receive the support of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u28	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the new Minister for Security and Justice, and therefore two ministers, for the answers to the questions raised in the first and second periods, which clearly underline the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal on administrative measures as well as the criminal approach to terrorism. The members of the VVD group welcome the opportunity for the executive to take concrete action at a much earlier stage than possible in the emergence of criminally relevant suspicions. Powerful preventive action can now precede or rather replace the repression of life-threatening threats. The possibility of judicial review of the Minister's decisions provided for in the legislative proposal is, of course, appropriate. The first and second periods of exchange in this Chamber have, however, shown a possible complication in the obligation to state reasons for the measures taken. In the further reply, the Government states, on request, that in the event of insufficient statement of reasons, the court will not maintain the measure. Of course, that makes sense. However, my group wonders how far this obligation to state reasons can go without restricting the scope of public administration to less than what is strictly necessary, precisely in their own shadowy situations. I am referring, of course, to the place in the judicial review of the communications from the security services, the content of which must often remain secret for understandable reasons. Since this is not a question of criminal review of evidence but of administrative weighting of evidence and suspicions, the judge will be able and should apply a lighter, i.e. marginal review. My group has a great deal of confidence in the ability of the administrative judge to keep some distance and to maintain the discretionary space that the administration deserves. We are, however, afraid of the psychological effect on the judge in those cases, and the bill provides that the judge must take note of "for your eyes only" messages, i.e. outside the appellate's presence. Will there not then be the unconscious tendency to judge the expressiveness of the supplied information a little more strictly in favour of the applelant? Is it possible to consider including in the next version of the law a provision designed to ensure that the Minister is fully discretionary in such matters for the administration of the country in this case? Extraordinary circumstances call for extraordinary clarity. I would like to hear the reaction of the government. I was just talking about the next version of this bill. However, as the ministers undoubtedly understood when I read my contribution in the first and second periods, the temporary nature of the proposed law is very difficult for my group. First of all, it is not logical to agree that the law will be reviewed in three years' time and thus immediately determine that the law will then be terminated. Then what is the point of evaluation? In addition, a whole new treatment in five years' time is in itself an unnecessary burden on the legislative bodies. More importantly, no one will expect the threat of terrorism to be eliminated in five years' time. It is repeatedly argued by the government that, given the far-reaching nature of the new powers, a moment of reflection for government and parliament is in place to determine whether this law should continue. The VVD Group does not really understand this as the only argument put forward. The question of whether a law should be enforced can be addressed after a thorough evaluation of the opportunity, effectiveness, proportionality and feasibility of that law. The findings on the basis of each of the criteria mentioned may, of course, lead to the repeal of a law, but that withdrawal time does not necessarily need to be determined in advance. Nor is the reference to the nature of the proposed powers convincing. Many of the existing powers of mayors similar to their very nature, Mr Engels referred to them as well under the Municipal Law, the Football Act and so on are as far-reaching as those provided for in this bill. No one doubts that this legislation should remain in force. In addition, the temporality of an anti-terrorism law can be understood by those who need to be combated as the state's staggeringness. It will be clear that we consider that undesirable. A priori, horizon legislation, however useful it may be in other areas, does not fit into the existing safety legislation system, where all other legislation has been made for an indefinite period. Without a clear and understandable need for its elaboration in this system, the finiteness of this law, contrary to the Minister's view, is indeed contrary to legal certainty. In the meantime, Bill 33542 on the retention of registration data by the police has also reached this Chamber. This is not so relevant in terms of content, but it is relevant because of the horizontal definition contained in it. This implies in the legislative proposal that the temporary retention of registration data takes effect after three years, unless an KB has been struck in time to extend that competence. The latter shall be carried out only after an in-depth evaluation of the functioning of this provision has been carried out. The evaluation will be sent to the House of Representatives and the draft KB will be subject to a slight pending procedure. Why has this much more logical and much less radical horizon procedure with exactly the same intended outcome not been followed in the anti-terrorism bill? I would like an answer from the Minister. In view of the need and urgency of this bill, it has indeed been delayed for far too long, the VVD Group will now agree. However, it expects the government to make a commitment that, when the law is reviewed in three years' time, its horizons and design will be explicitly re-examined and called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u29	I see that Mrs Strik is heading for the chair, but Mrs Bikker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u30	I would have loved to let Mrs. Strike go first, but I hear from her that I don't have to do that. Then we'll get started soon. Mr. Chairman. Under the response of one of the legislative proposals that we are debating today, the legislative proposal on the amendment of the Passport Act, Minister Blok was mentioned as Minister of the Interior. Now he is here to deal with these legislative proposals, but as Minister of Justice. On behalf of my group, I would like to wish him a good time at the new department, an important department for him. I would like to thank his predecessor, Mr Van der Steur, for his cooperation. We have already expressed our joy at the healthy return of Minister Plasterk, but that remains of course. Unfortunately, the legislative proposals we are debating today have not lost any topical value. They are aimed at strengthening national security and preventing the growth of jihadgoers. In considering whether these legislative proposals are a contribution to this, my group weighs both effectiveness and effectiveness, but also proportionality. New laws should help to improve the fight against terrorism. I shall therefore begin with the legislative proposal in which my group has the greatest questions. That bill concerns the possibility of losing Dutch citizenship if a Dutchman of dual nationality over 16 years of age voluntarily enters foreign military service or if the loss is in the interest of national security because the person concerned has joined an organisation outside the Kingdom which, said domestically, is on the national terrorist list. In dealing with the bill on the taking away of the Netherlands in the event of terrorist offences, the Christian Union Group has already shared a large part of its assessment framework with the Minister when adding that loss assessment. The guide is the European Convention on Nationality, and in particular Article 7 thereof, which sets out exhaustively the grounds for allowing the loss of nationality. Volunteering in foreign military service is one of the grounds mentioned in this Article. That's very imaginable. After all, someone chooses to work for the army of a foreign nation and thus expresses his loyalty to the nation concerned. However, the Christian Union Group wonders why the Minister has opted for an assessment rather than the current situation where the person concerned automatically loses his nationality. In what cases is it a compelling experience that this happened automatically? Why is the current provision better? A second amendment is that the new provision applies not only to adults but also to minors aged between 16 and 18 years. This is by analogy with criminal law, in which sometimes it is also chosen to judge according to adult criminal law. I note, however, that the reverse for categories 18 to 21 years also happens if the perpetrator's personality makes this desirable or if there are special circumstances. Why has the provision only been extended in one direction? How does the Minister view if a person concerned in criminal law is likely to be covered by Article 77c of the Code of Criminal Law? Is that an aspect that is weighed in his decision? By analogy with entering foreign military service, the membership of an organisation placed on a list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict that pose a threat to national security is added. For people who join a terrorist organisation, to some extent they also choose to turn their backs on the Netherlands and everything we stand for. That is why we supported the proposal at the time, which, among other things, regulates that in the event of a conviction for terrorism, the criminal court may subsequently withdraw from the Netherlands. We are in favour of withdrawing Dutch citizenship in the event of a conviction for terrorism, preceded by a good test at the criminal court. But the current proposal does not involve a judge in advance. There is no such provision in the European Convention on Nationality. It talks about behaviour that seriously harms the essential interests of the State. In 2000, one of the ministers of the Ministry of Justice wrote that adding a loss clause to the law places high demands on the evidence, given the far-reaching consequences of the withdrawal of nationality. In order to meet the requirement of proportionality, this will be no different from the new provision proposed by the Minister. Or does he think that only joining such an organisation, however short or limited, has always caused serious damage to the essential interests of the State? The answer to our questions gives that impression, but the proposed provision suggests that an individual test is being carried out. Is or is not the threat to security already being accepted by membership alone? Does this also apply, for example, to a 16-year-old girl who, because of a relationship with a jihadist or who thinks she is, joins a terrorist group? What happens if that girl quickly regrets or, not unimaginable, is tracked down by family, who then reports to the Dutch embassy with the girl? What essential interests will then be harmed? How does the Minister assess and consider that deradicalisation is excluded and that detection and trial are at least very difficult, whereas the latter is a basic notion in our rule of law? Will parents with a child abroad still report? Has the Minister found any positive experience with this measure abroad? I'll be on legal protection. How can the judge verify that the information is correct if it comes from a confidential source, for example from intelligence services? I have one final point on this bill. Since 2014, the Basic Registration Persons has no longer registered or people have a dual nationality. This will make it increasingly difficult, in the long term, to determine whether nationality can be withdrawn at all. Moreover, it is noted that only those who cannot or do not wish to remove their second nationality are covered by this measure. I come to the proposal on administrative measures to combat terrorism. The threat of returning jihad fighters is there, also in the Netherlands. For the Christian Union Group, the approach of this group begins with the application of criminal law. To this end, additions have been made to the Code of Criminal Law in recent years. Several colleagues have mentioned them. But for those who still intend to travel or return without criminal prosecution being effective or possible at the time, this law is a safety net, so we read somewhere. Since criminal law has now been extended, my group would like to hear exactly where the additional functioning of this bill is. This is assessed in varying degrees in the opinions. Both the Council of State and the College of Attorneys General are, in a friendly way, sparing about this. Can the Minister give examples that illustrate precisely the added value of this bill? I do not see such examples in the answer. A second concern concerns the exit ban outside the Schengen area. How does a person travel with a passport of his or her other nationality? I believe that Mr Van Dijk has already referred to this. Is the Minister now confident that such a ban will be enforceable? What's he basing this trust on? I'll come to a conclusion. The Group of the Christian Union believes that we should fight against violent, terrorist groups and individuals who turn against our society and, more or less, against all conceivable minorities, Christians, Jews, Jezidis, women, and fellow believers who would not be religious enough. I could go on like this for a while. Legislation can also be very helpful in this fight. However, my group still has questions about the proposals before us. In particular, in the case of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, my group sees problems and concerns. Much can be done with the current law. In our view, the irretrievability of nationality, without prior criminal conviction, is at odds with the principles of the rule of law. By the way, the fight against terrorism is won not only by new laws, but also by a firm commitment to deradicalisation, to the fight for ideas. I therefore look forward to the evaluation of the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme, which contains both elements, the soft approach and the firm approach through legislation. I know the Security and Justice Inspectorate started the evaluation. I would ask the Minister to send us the results. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u31	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the PvdD Group. I would like to wish both ministers strength, Minister Blok, with his whole new department, it is getting more and more brave to start that job; my compliments to Mr Plasterk and to him on the expansion of his work package. Through the Acts I would also like to express my thanks for the cooperation with the former Minister of Security and Justice, Van der Steur. The fact that this minister had to quit might, strangely enough, be related to the legislative proposals before us. In the analysis of the many crises at the Ministry of Security and Justice, there are two causes: the obsession with decisiveness due to the law-and-order focus within the VVD, where there is no room for research or doubt, and the dejuriation of the political leadership, which makes constitutional values increasingly subject to political will. If these causes are correct and you add them together, then we have a striking characterization of the reasons why we need to deal with these legislative proposals today. Minister Blok was not allowed to work, because in the eyes of the finish line this cabinet had to and would show its teeth one more time. The fact that the three legislative proposals are dealt with jointly is mainly due to a shared motivation, namely the importance of national security. They have another commonality, namely that it undermines criminal and administrative safeguards. For the umpteenth time, we have to observe here that the cabinet is not providing the right answer to terrorism and terrorism threats. In the opinion of our groups, that answer is the rule of law itself. It is strong enough to face the threat of terrorism while protecting our fundamental rights and values. If we give it away, we will meet the wishes of terrorists, and that is a dangerous trend. You cannot be credible in defending the rule of law if you do not take it seriously at the same time. I therefore hope that the Minister will be open to the arguments and objections put forward here today. I shall begin with the proposal to withdraw Dutch citizenship. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, without an irrevocable criminal conviction as a basis, and even without hearing and hearing in advance, goes a long way. One of the most fundamental rights, citizenship, if this proposal is adopted, can be lost without due process, without careful weighing and therefore without establishing whether the withdrawal is really necessary for national security. There is a big problem, because is it necessary at all to take such a radical measure without the normal procedural guarantees? In any event, the Advisory Section of the Council of State considers that no, and points out that Dutch society can also be protected by provisional detention during the criminal proceedings. The benefits of a criminal trial are obvious: then there has been truth finding and then the defendant has been able to exercise the right of defence. In the end, it is the criminal court who then determines how punitive the person is. So again, why not go down that road? With this bill, we have only interpreted and interpreted an assessment based on behaviour observed by the security services. No hearing, no checks-and-balances. It is only after the withdrawal that an administrative judge checks whether the withdrawal is lawful, but in most cases also without hearing, because there is a good chance that the person concerned, the Dutchman, will not or will not be aware of the withdrawal and of the fact that he is required to report for a defence. What are the possibilities available to this Dutchman if he only finds out about them after the administrative judge has already taken the test and the appeal period has expired? If it's over and out, is that proportional? Moreover, the definition of the conduct justifying withdrawal is extremely vague. It doesn't even have to be a criminal offence. It bothers my group that we should deal with this bill without the grounds for withdrawal and criteria already being made known to us. The AMvB, which sets out the criteria, is not yet ready. It will specify the conduct and the various aspects of individual interests. Why aren't these criteria in the bill? Does the European Convention on Nationality not require this? And why wasn't the draft AMvB sent to us? If it is not yet ready, I would like to be supported by the urgency we have been called upon to deal with the legislative proposal. Can the law be applied without AMvB? I would therefore ask the Minister to define more precisely what criteria will apply in the individual assessment and what consideration of interests is being made. My group asked the Minister whether the principle of proportionality of Union law, as laid down in the Rottmann judgment, would be complied with. The Minister agrees, but I did not get much information to be convinced of that. After all, the Minister is not free to decide for himself what is proportionate. It should be proportionate in accordance with Union law. The Court referred to some relevant considerations in the judgment. For example, the time lag between naturalisation and the withdrawal decision should be taken into account and the impact of the decision on the Dutch citizen and on his or her family members should be taken into account. Are these all aspects that are indeed taken into account? Article 7 (1) of the European Convention on Nationality also requires conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State. This too will have to be determined individually. The Minister seems to argue that this is always met if someone has joined an organisation that poses a threat to national security. In my group's view, this ignores the strict requirement of individualisation imposed by the European Convention on Nationality. Not the organization, but the person must do that serious harm to essential interests. Again, we are stuck with the lack of clarity about the criteria, because what is 'connecting', and what is that supposed to be? And what behavior can be seen as support? The Minister prefers it all as vague as possible, but this vagueness makes the absence of a criminal court who can see that this is a serious crime, as required by the European Convention on Nationality, even more problematic. Does the Minister not understand that such a far-reaching measure calls for predictability and awareness? Moreover, the absence of any transitional right is already seriously at stake. I'd like a response. The vague criteria and the lack of safeguards and transitional law make my group believe that this is a violation of the right to a fair trial, as defined in Article 6 of the ECHR and Articles 41 and 47 of the EU Charter. In addition to these fundamental objections, my group also finds it strange that the cabinet chooses to let someone who has called it 'a danger' wander freely, albeit in another country. In response to questions from my group, whether this will not increase insecurity in other parts of the world, the Minister replied that the Dutchman concerned may be less likely to attack outside the Schengen area. This assessment is somewhat unwelcome for our groups. Did the Minister have this investigated? What does he support this theorem with? After all, far more attacks are being committed outside Europe than within it, so why should someone who is trained for them, but who does not go further than Turkey on the way back, not commit an attack in Turkey? If it were a Western target, then there are plenty to be found outside the western countries, as the experience unfortunately shows. Moreover, this reasoning once again shows that this bill is written with one specific situation in mind. The word "jihad" or the term "jihadist organisation" appears no less than 90 times in all legislative documents. This law has a general effect, doesn't it? How does the Minister weigh national security versus international security? Is it not better for countries to cooperate in the fight against terrorism? This proposal does the opposite: instead of prosecuting criminal law, we are placing a potential problem on the rest of the world. The Minister is therefore only concerned with national security. But even if he only wants to hide behind the dikes, criminal prosecution is more effective. After all, if the Dutchman has all his family and friends in the Netherlands, isn't there a good chance that he will settle here illegally? Doesn't this make controllability much more difficult? I come to my last, but not least important point with this bill. I have already mentioned the example of a Dutchman who is rooted here and has all his ties. That's not exactly imaginary. The law focuses on a Dutchman who has or can have an effective relationship with the Netherlands, just like a Dutchman who only has Dutch nationality. And yet the cabinet here makes an immense distinction. Monopatriate Dutch people can and can travel back, and with sufficient evidence they can be prosecuted here. For them it seems to be a solution to protect national security, so why treat bipatride Dutch differently, with such profound consequences? In two written rounds I have already crossed with the Minister about this discriminatory effect and its admissibility. The Minister has not convinced our political groups that this is not a prohibited ethnic distinction. After all, the law affects some specific groups of Dutch; it will be mainly Moroccan and Turkish Dutch. Moroccans can't even renounce this nationality. However, they are treated completely differently from Dutch people who are actually in the same situation: the same behaviour, the same organisation. The ties with the Netherlands can also be of exactly the same degree. In preparing this bill, I had to recall the government's arguments for reducing double nationality. The reasoning was that you can safely require distance from the other nationality if the bond with the Netherlands is the only effective bond. So the government said that this connection with the other country is so negligible that we can demand that you distance yourself from it if that is actually possible. Now the reasoning is suddenly reversed; now the situation of a bipatride Dutchman is incomparable with that of a monopatride Dutchman, because the bipatride Dutchman would have a connection with another country. But what role does this effective band really play? Does it matter when considering whether the Dutchman has an effective relationship with the Netherlands and no relationship with the other country, or does it not make any difference? According to the Government, that de facto effective link no longer exists by definition because of the conduct. But isn't that equally true for a monopatriate Dutchman who has committed such a behavior? I'd like an explanation. The only argument that the Minister can use is that withdrawal from monopatriate Dutch citizens is not permitted in international law and in the case of bipatride. However, in the Hode and Abdi cases, the European Court of Human Rights made it clear that an international obligation is not a reason to favour one group over another who is in a similar situation. Other cases also show that the Court of Justice is imposing increasingly stringent requirements on the difference in treatment in similar situations, even on grounds of nationality. If the reason for the distinction is not sufficiently serious and justified, the Court finds that discrimination is prohibited. The government states that there is no indirect distinction because the legal text would be neutral. In the Biao case, too, the Danish Government argued that a measure was not aimed at one particular group of Danes and that it was neutral. But before the Court, the actual effect was not intended but relevant. Denmark was convicted because the conditions in the law mainly affected certain groups of Danes. As with this bill, the distinction worked very differently for native citizens than for immigrants. I would also like to receive an explanation from the Minister. Then I come to the proposal for administrative measures in the context of national security, including reporting obligations, area bans, prohibition of contact or exit bans. Here, too, we are talking about far-reaching measures on the basis of very vague criteria: what does "contact" mean and what should be "observant interest"? Again, there is a dangerous combination of vague grounds on the one hand and measures of deep freedom, inadequate procedural guarantees and far-reaching punishment in the non-compliance of the measure on the other. All the reasons for the Human Rights Commissioner to make a pressing request to the government to waive this bill. Let us begin with the grounds: here too, the Minister likes to keep the definition as vague as possible and here too, he is touching on the right to a fair trial, which requires precise criteria and predictability. In addition, in the event of an infringement of freedoms or privacy, the ECHR requires that such infringement be provided for by law. This does not seem to be the case either, at least in view of the substantive criteria in the law. As a co-legislator, should we be able to assess whether an activity as such should be regarded as a threat to national security that a person must surrender all kinds of freedoms? My group simply cannot judge this with the current definitions. Moreover, the relationship with criminal law remains diffuse and dark. In recent years, many laws have been passed that allow criminal prosecution to occur in the event of suspicion of all forms of involvement in terrorist activities. Support activities are also included. It seems that the Minister wants to be able to rob people of their freedom before they can even be considered a suspect. However, if there is insufficient reason for such suspicion, a suspicion that would open up criminal law, can anyone still be regarded as a threat to national security, so much so that they or their freedom-limiting measures can be imposed? Does this not refer to a frivolous or vague interpretation of the concept of a danger to national security? If such a criterion were to apply, could criminal instruments be used for this purpose? This is also more effective here, because then the truth can come out, in addition to perhaps many more relevant facts for the fight against terrorism. The Minister confirms in the written reply that criminal proceedings are being carried out wherever possible. That's very reassuring. But in addition, the Minister says that there may be a need to restrict one's freedom during the criminal investigation. But that too is precisely what criminal law provides for, by means of the instrument of pre-trial detention. If this instrument cannot be applied because the grounds for it are insufficient, the question arises as to whether these grounds can be so serious that there is a danger to national security. In short, the Minister, in my group and also in the Animal Party, does not take away the impression that he is trying to create a shortcut to circumvent criminal law criteria and safeguards. I invite the Minister to convince us otherwise. On this point, too, my group has serious concerns as to whether legal protection is effective. If the justification for the freedom-limiting measure contains too sensitive information, it can only be given to the court for inspection. How, then, can the person have sufficient defence? How the administrative judge reviews the decision, the Minister also leaves it entirely to the judge. My group believes that it will have to carry out a thorough and thorough review of the decision, particularly in the light of Union law, Article 47 Charter. This is because there is a restriction on the free movement of persons. This is only possible if there is a sufficiently serious threat of fundamental importance to society and if the measure is proportionate. Please note that these are measures which can be extended on an unlimited number of occasions. The more far-reaching and long-term the measure, and the more punitive it is in its nature, the more compelling it is in our view, with all the consequences for its additional safeguards. The Court of Human Rights has also made it clear that restrictions on freedom by authorities must be subject to optimum effective judicial control. So the question is: how does the Minister feel that this is foreseen? In addition, the Party for Animals and GroenLinks cannot consider the penalty of up to one year deprivation of liberty to be proportionate. This bill affects the principles of our rule of law and will in practice have a stigmatising effect, which cannot be too difficult to achieve in terms of discrimination. It is precisely because of the vagueness and the lack of guarantees that care and necessity are practically only placed in the hands of implementing bodies. By not changing such sensitive legislation with the necessary checks-and-balances, the cabinet could feed social unrest, polarisation and mistrust. If that happens, we're going to have another debate here about ethnic profiling and stigmatizing by the government in a year's time. This trend is the last thing we need now, when so many people are already on edge. The groups of the Party for Animals and GroenLinks prefer that the cabinet invests more in bringing the groups together in society and want the cabinet to protect our security within the framework of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u32	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr van der Steur for the many kind words that have been said to me by the Chamber, but certainly also for the many kind words he has said to Mr van der Steur. When I speak to him again soon, I will gladly convey those warm words to him. I'm sure he'll appreciate that. I would also like to thank the Chamber for allowing us now to discuss these complex and indeed far-reaching legislative proposals, because, unfortunately, there is every reason to do so. These three legislative proposals form an integral part of the government's efforts to counter the increased threat of international terrorism. Unfortunately, we cannot give guarantees that an attack in the Netherlands can be prevented if these legislative proposals are adopted, but then we will do everything we can, clearly within the limits of the rule of law. I am well aware that, in the first place, all the speakers mentioned the fact that the proposals are far-reaching and call for a careful balance of interests where they intervene in the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. In general terms, there must of course be a very careful balance between the protection of the individual and the possible violation of his or her rights on the one hand and the very important importance of protecting our society against terrorism on the other. Indeed, the aspects mentioned by many of you have a crucial role to play in this respect: predictability, proportionality and legal protection. In any event, the cabinet is convinced that these legislative proposals are really necessary in order to protect citizens from acts of terrorism while at the same time respecting the fundamental rights of individuals. Against this background, I will answer the questions. First, I will answer the questions about the law on combating terrorism and then the questions about the bill on Dutch citizenship. I understand that the Chamber has already given Mr Plasterk leave to continue his activities elsewhere, because the Chamber had no specific questions about the Passport Act. First of all, the questions about the legislative proposal on administrative measures. Mr Schrijver, who is probably listening remotely, asked the very essential question why the existing instruments need to be supplemented. What experiences or possibilities does that show? I want to start with the Chamber doing a thought experiment that could just become a reality. ISIS is under strong pressure. I think we all hope that it will soon be an organisation without territory because Mosul has fallen completely and also Raqqa. This will mean that there will be a movement in that organisation to develop activities elsewhere. Many people who are now active as terrorists in Syria or Iraq will then experience great urge to relocate their activities, for example to the Netherlands. If this situation is to occur, it is not an improbable situation at all, then the legislative proposals we are talking about are really crucial. In such a situation, dozens of people may be moving, also with Dutch nationality, there are estimated to be about 190 Dutch active in the IS area in the direction of the Netherlands. In that case, we really need the additional instruments that are before us, regardless of the fact that we will have to make use of them in the current situation. As far as I am concerned, the situation I set out provides a very crucial basis for the answer to Mr Schrijver. His question is actually the question of being: why this law now? With the exit ban, we really have much more opportunities to take a very substantial measure and to stop people who are considering travelling to terrorist combat areas. Furthermore, this proposal provides for the possibility of imposing restrictions on freedom in cases where criminal proceedings cannot yet be initiated, but where a person is a threat to national security. I can best illustrate this by means of examples that can be presented without saying that this is the case now, because, as the Chamber understands, I cannot go into specific situations. Suppose someone has a very big interest in the buildings around the Binnenhof and we know from that person that he is in frequent contact with radical imams, then we have a lot of reason to worry, but not enough to act criminally. Or someone has a very frequent contract with someone who has already been convicted of a terrorist offence. That is a great deal of reason for us to worry, but not enough to take criminal action. Or people we're really worried about or who may already be convicted of, ask for a permit, for example to set up a clubhouse. We do not yet have enough information for a criminal conviction, but we do want to prevent, say, an empty factory hall becoming a clubhouse of an organisation that we really have a lot of concerns about. I hope to give examples of why we really need additional instruments with this specific instrument, which is hypothetical, but really not impossible. Mr Schrijver asked about the relationship with criminal law. He asked whether there would always be criminal investigations against the person concerned and whether this would not lead to a combination of administrative and criminal approaches. Mr Schrijver is quite right that people who meet the criteria for imposing administrative measures are also very interesting from a criminal point of view. Indeed, the imposition of such an administrative measure will almost always go hand in hand with criminal investigations. To his question whether that would be difficult, my full answer is no. Criminal law is really aimed at the detection and prosecution of criminal offences. The measures here are not intended as a punitive sanction, but really to protect national security. Mrs Strik asked a similar question. If national security is so at stake, why can't criminal law be used? It is not true that it is not being used. If that's possible, it will certainly happen. Nor will we use this law as an alternative to criminal law. I just gave examples where you're really onto a very threatening situation early and want to avoid worse. Those situations are really very imaginable at the present time. That is why we really need these additional administrative measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thanks for the explanation. You mentioned some very threatening situations. You outlined specific interest in the buildings here at the Binnenhof. Now they're in the spotlight, too, because they need to be rebuilt. So a lot of people might be covered by this. You said, in conjunction with the involvement in a jihadist organization. If the security services at that time consider that there is a very threatening situation, which you call a criterion, then there is a danger to national security. Then there's already a suspicion, isn't there? Could you please comment on that? I mean, therefore, when this situation arises, without any possibility of actually prosecuting or carrying out criminal investigations or pre-trial detention on the basis of criminal law. There's our problem. That is not clear enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u35	The combination that we're trying to get out of together now is not in itself a reason for criminal prosecution, so you're going to need a little bit more, but it's very worrying. When we are in the renovation phase, where there are always vans going down and down here and a lot of people coming on the premises, you have to be extra alert to the risk of possible terrorist actions. I'm sketching the situation of someone who's suddenly here a lot, taking pictures, maybe looking for drawings, and from whom we also know that he sometimes visits a radical imam. Both acts are not punishable, but it sounds scary. Again, it's a theoretical example. I'm not saying we have someone like that in the picture right now. There are still more buildings and even more aggravating conditions than visiting a radical imam to think of. But if you have such a combination, you don't want to have to sit entirely on your hands, because the consequences of late intervention can be terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u36	Of course, I understand that very well. That's what we're all trying to prevent. You combine two data from one person. If the security services find that there is a serious threat, the investigating authorities have a wide range of powers at their disposal to monitor, monitor, and so on in order to be able to zoom in more accurately on the behaviour and perhaps also on the motivations of such a person, so that criminal action can then be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u37	Sure. That will probably happen at the same time. That was the question that both Mr Schrijver and you asked whether a criminal route would be used. Almost always, yes. But now we find such a combination of very worrying behaviors. By eavesdropping or following, you don't prevent the one van with the explosives from arriving here. In their present form, the instruments we are using are not sufficient to meet the level of threat we are unfortunately experiencing in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u38	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u39	So it depends very much on what the behaviors are and how they are interpreted. I'm sure the Minister will come back to that. I would say: if things were crazy, we would have a lot of opportunities to follow someone in such a way that we should be able to intervene in time. But I would like to hear more about the behaviour which the Minister intends to take and which does not allow any delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u40	Mrs Strik is quite right to speak of 'following' and 'taking action'. This bill isn't about following. I did not have any supplementary questions on that either. This bill is about the part of intervention. Without this law, in the cases I outline, the part of intervention is missing. Again, I find that indispensable, given the current threat picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u41	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply so far. It's very interesting to speculate about the coincidence. I had not so much raised the question of whether we should find that objectionable; rather, whether it is desirable. I am pleased to hear that the Minister also sees it as the desirable scenario for administrative measures, as soon as possible, to be followed by a criminal law approach, especially with a view to improving the legal protection of those concerned. I also understand that sometimes the situation is that there may not be any reason for the continuation of the administrative measures and that therefore the criminal procedure will not be seen. Do I see that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u42	I can fully endorse what Mr Schrijver said. Both Mrs Van Bijsterveldt and Mr Engels asked why the criterion "terrorist activities or their support" has not been further defined. As a result of the rounds of questions, we have outlined the combination of facts and actions that we think about. At the same time, it is vulnerable to go further. I outlined a few scenarios that could occur, but as we try to write further down in the legislation in what kind of situations we will apply, we also make it more difficult to apply the instrument where it is really necessary. The justification will always have to be sound, because I am well aware that these are not measures that we can take lightly. But we must leave some discretion to the minister responsible. Mr Schrijver asked how we would prevent the use of lightly applied methods. I hope to make it clear in my reply that I am aware of the far-reaching measures involved. I do not intend to apply such measures lightly at all. But I am convinced that the law does not leave me that space, because that same law also clearly states that it must be necessary, in order to protect national security. I will have to really motivate that protection of national security, because that can just be reviewed in court, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u43	I understand that you say that it is very vulnerable to the justification and application to make the legal definition more stringent than it is now. That links you to the understandable desire of you as a driver that you want discretionary space for the application of statutory regulations. But we are talking about very intrusive powers here. I am a little hesitant, however, because when using strong and far-reaching powers there must be a balance between legal certainty, such as legal guarantees, and the need to be able to act administratively properly. I am left with the impression that we are making the discretionary space relatively very large and that the legal guarantee of provideability and so on is far behind what we are normally used to. I do not think that the criterion of 'national security at risk' is sufficient justification for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u44	If I understood correctly, Mr Engels' original question was very much about why the term 'terrorist activities' was not defined more clearly. We have dealt with terrorist threats in Dutch history before. There has been a period in which the Rote Armee Fraktion was also active in the Netherlands. If at that time a law had written down exactly what terrorist activities were, one of the factors would never have included hate preaching, because in the 1970s that concept did not play any role. Nor can I foresee exactly what behaviours or new techniques can be used for terrorist activities or their support. It is not that I, as a driver, need to have a great discretion, but I do need as a driver to deal with this serious threat, with a good guarantee of individual freedoms and human rights statements, if it is really necessary to be able to act properly, knowing that the judge will always be able to test it. Mr Van Dijk asked why the concept of "national security" was used, because there may also be a threat to other countries, including the Netherlands. He rightly points out that the attacks that unfortunately took place in neighbouring countries were often carried out by people who stayed in several countries and organised themselves across borders. But that same fact leads me to believe that if someone is targeting terrorist activities in a neighbouring country, they can immediately be regarded as a danger to the Netherlands. Because if someone is considering an attack on a station or an airport in Belgium or France, we unfortunately have to note that the chances are the same that the same person or organisation wants to do so in the Netherlands. That is why the concept of "national security" in this case is seamlessly reflected in equally bad intentions aimed at neighbouring countries. Mr. Schrijver asked why it is not foreseen that a prior test will be carried out by the judge. This has to do with the fact that this is an administrative measure, which is never subject to prior judicial review. But that doesn't change the fact that the judge can actually test. I wouldn't have it any other way. In this context, Mrs Strik asked whether the judge would do so in the form of a full or a marginal test. It is not for me to rule on this; that is the jurisdiction of the judge. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the legislative proposal, when a measure is taken in the fifth and possibly final year of the bill, is effective. Yes, because the measures will generally be taken for a foreseeable period. You can, as long as this law is in force. Even if the bill is not extended after five years, it will remain in force throughout that five-year period. Then Mr Van Dijk's logical question is when we conclude after those five years that the law has been passed. This will have to be demonstrated by the fact that in these five years the law has made a concrete contribution to the protection of national security. By the way, there is also an evaluation after three years in the law, so we will talk about this earlier. It is difficult for me to go into numerical support when I see this concrete contribution, but I think that after a few years we can really conclude to what extent this law has been applied or hung over the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u45	In my first term, I have expressed quite clearly my estrangement about the horizon. The Minister himself mentioned the evaluation announced. Can he at least promise that this horizon clause will be explicitly reviewed and can he address the question of how logical that is in this context, given the fact that we are talking about terrorism legislation here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u46	Indeed, Mr Van Dijk also asked the more fundamental question, why a temporary operation at all applies. In my introduction, I indicated how much I realise that this is a far-reaching piece of legislation, which I strongly support. This legislation can really affect individual human rights. The government considers this necessary because of the unfortunately real threat of terrorism. However, in the case of far-reaching legislation, I find a hard horizon clause a logical guarantee that we look at each other even more deeply. Indeed, that is looking deeper in the eyes than in an ordinary evaluation, as we always do with laws. Mr Van Dijk's question as to whether, after three years of evaluation, it is possible to address explicitly the question of whether the horizon should remain, I can say that it seems logical to me that we should raise this question after three years. Mr Knip also stressed the importance of the evaluation after five years. I hope that after this interruption I have answered him that, given the serious consideration we are making here between the great importance we attach to human rights and the great importance we attach to preventing terrorist activities as much as possible, it is obvious that the government has a hard horizon. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked how confidential documents would be handled if the person concerned wanted to be informed of the precise reason for the imposition of a measure. Such a measure will, of course, have to be justified. If the motivation is based on sources from the security services, it is not new that part of that information will remain secret to the data subject in order to protect the sources. In this case too, this will be dealt with in this way. Mr Knip asked whether the judge would judge secret information more strictly and thus not in favour of the appellant. He asked whether a discretionary power for the minister should be included in the law. You can't do that until you've changed the law. As I said to Mrs Bijsterveld, this way of dealing with confidential information from the security service is not new. Again, in the balancing of interests in this far-reaching, but in my opinion necessary law, I think it is wise to join in the way in which confidential information from the security service is now being handled. I do not think it is wise to regulate this directly through a discretionary power of the Minister. Mr Schrijver also asked about the handling of secret information. Wherever possible, the person concerned will be able to see the supporting documents. But if source protection is required, it will prevail. The General Administrative Law already provides rules for dealing with confidential information. They will also apply in this case. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker asked about the enforcement and feasibility of an exit ban from Schengen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u47	I was just listening to the story about the secret pieces. I asked the Minister whether it would be an idea to increase the level of legal protection; more equality of arms. Could a screened lawyer, on behalf of the person concerned, have an insight into the secret documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u48	I know that there are countries that work with screened lawyers in this way, but that is not the case in the Netherlands. We should then introduce a new figure under the General Administrative Law. I think that goes too far under this law, also because I have no reason to believe that the way in which we deal with confidential information now offers insufficient legal protection. Is the exit ban from Schengen enforceable and enforceable? I fear I have to start with the relativization that people will always try, and I fear I will also succeed, to travel in and out illegally. This is true for the whole Schengen area, but that is even more true for prohibitions which would be limited to the Netherlands, because the Netherlands does not apply border controls within the Schengen area. This general observation does not alter the fact that it makes a huge contribution to the detection and prosecution of as many safeguards as possible at a border crossing point. That means that if people want to cross the border, they will have to do so via unusual routes, with which they already charge suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u49	Does the Minister consider that Schengen puts the Netherlands at greater risk? He just mentioned free travel in the Schengen area. Does that mean that the danger of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands is greater?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u50	No, I don't. We can combine border surveillance and the security services of other Schengen countries to prevent people in the Schengen area from engaging in terrorist activities anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u51	However, Schengen's external borders are not monitored 100% and terrorists can also travel freely within the Schengen area. We have recently seen that a terrorist who has committed an attack in Germany has gone through the Netherlands to Italy. He could also have committed an attack in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister once again for his opinion. If Schengen had not existed, would our borders have been safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u52	Even if the Netherlands still had its own border controls, Mr Markuszower's 100% security would unfortunately prove to be an illusion. That does not mean that I do not think that border controls should be avoided at all, except at the Schengen borders. You can't get it completely foolproof. But it is also to the advantage of the Netherlands as countries on the Schengen external borders... I am not talking about Schiphol or a port, but about the borders that are at a significant distance from the Netherlands.. are active with their own customs and police and therefore serve our interest? That makes our security position stronger, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u53	I do not know whether the Minister will answer our question later, but it was mainly about maintaining the Schengen external borders. The written documents showed that there is no systematic monitoring of terrorist suspicion at the external borders. If that is not the case, the operation of the measures we are talking about is, in a sense, limited. What about the progress of systematic checks on exit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u54	I wanted to come back to that. This also plays a role in the next law on Dutch citizenship, which we are about to deal with. In the Temporary Act administrative measures to combat terrorism, the exit ban specifically relates to leaving the Netherlands and the Schengen area. This law implies that the exit ban becomes immediately effective, because the Dutch passport and identity card immediately expire. Without such a travel document, you cannot legally travel, because even if the travel document is not surrendered, the document numbers in international alert systems are registered as invalid. This may be subject to systematic border surveillance. Mr Van Dijk asked what you do when a person uses the passport of his or her second nationality. Indeed, the Netherlands cannot declare such a passport invalid. For this reason, in addition to the document warning, on which I was just entering, there is also a silent person alert. This means that a border guard at the external border of Schengen will inform the Netherlands when such a person makes a travel movement with the non-Dutch passport. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the additional measures. At EU level, there are currently two proposals for improvement in procedure. The first implies that Union citizens may also be systematically checked in the context of the silent alert. That is really an addition, because it is only right now for non-Union citizens to do so. We hope that this proposal will come into force next spring. In addition, we want to ensure that when someone is arrested in another Member State after consultation with the Netherlands because they have been alerted, action can be taken against that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u55	The minister just said it could be reported if someone with a second nationality travels with his other passport, but that person will travel further. Does this mean that that person cannot be detained if he travels with his second passport, with his other nationality, while he can be detained if he travels with his Dutch nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u56	That's right, but there is information about that person's travel movement. This information is of course also important in preventing terrorism and possibly prosecuting individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u57	I understand that this is important, because we have a pin shot on the card and we know where someone has moved for a while. I'm sure there'll be intelligence work that will allow us to keep an eye on that person. The fact is, however, that we cannot maintain that exit ban and that we only know where that person has been at some point; I am right to conclude that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u58	Yes, there could still be an exit along this route. I fear that the first general observation is that a completely watertight system cannot be found, however much we want it to be, but that it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to travel at all and especially to travel unseen as we take more of this kind of enforceable and sensible measures. The course of events surrounding the attacks that we have unfortunately experienced shows that such information can be crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u59	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my question on the supplementary EU measures. Does the Minister have any idea of the time-limit within which these measures can be implemented and implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u60	We hope this spring. We're in a hurry to do that. The same applies to other EU countries. In addition, the possibility to carry out checks on international train and bus journeys is explored. I had not mentioned that point yet, but that has also recently come out. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked the more fundamental question whether you should not go back to truly 100% national border controls. That would really be very important for the daily lives of the citizens of the Schengen area and for businesses. I remember when you were in traffic before the Brenner Pass. That would come back. That is a very serious measure. Among other things, following Mr Van der Staaij's motion in the Lower House, Mr Van Dijk asked how an entry ban could be achieved. This is also discussed at EU level. At least, new measures are being discussed within the framework of the EU Travel Ban, which can follow on from being placed on the UN sanctions list. Such a sanction could allow persons on that list to be returned to their own EU country if they are found in another Schengen country. That may not be so soon at border control, but it may be the case with another type of control. The Foreign Minister is currently working with his EU colleagues on how to work on this issue. In any case, the Dutch commitment is that the EU travel ban can be coordinated by all EU countries against returners in the future. We also hope to be able to inform the Chamber in the spring. Mr Schrijver asked how we can prevent these measures, even if they are unintentional, from contributing to the stigmatisation and discrimination of minorities in the Netherlands. Mrs Strik and Mrs Wezel also replied. I am well aware that the jihadist threat is the direct cause of these legislative proposals, but as I have just said, unfortunately, the Netherlands has already experienced other forms of terrorism and international terrorism in the past. Therefore, the law does not refer to "jihadist crimes." At this time, that is the immediate area of operation, but should we in future, I hope, not be confronted with international cross-border terrorism again, whether it is of extreme left-wing, extreme right-wing or whatever ideology, then these measures can also be applied in those cases. That was one of the reasons why I said to Mr Engels that I cannot write down in detail what type of behaviour or behaviour we are thinking of, but this is subject to the criterion of'state danger'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u61	I very much appreciate that answer. Would it not have been better with the wisdom of today to put that in the explanatory statement as well? I can remember that many points are made very clearly in relation to jihadist battle areas and so on. That is, of course, the context in which we are speaking above all; I am happy to admit that. I think, however, that these words by the Minister mean that some of us, including myself, are making this point somewhat less difficult than was the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u62	No one will be unaware that the jihadist threat is the direct cause for the discussion of this bill and for the request that it be dealt with carefully but with some urgency. But it is not for nothing that I indicated that the law is formulated in such a way that it can also be applied in the event that, of course, I hope that it will not happen. In the future, we would have to deal with other forms of international terrorism, as we have had in the past. Mrs Wezel asked how we would prevent people from getting into illegality and under the radar as a result of this law. It is, of course, the case at the moment that people with evil intentions are trying to stay under the radar and that we are trying to keep those people on the radar. For example, the persons and organisations concerned are discussed in the case-by-case consultation between the various departments. The police and the AIVD are constantly making threat assessments. In addition, in the vast majority of cases these persons will be the subject of criminal investigations, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech. In this context, it may eventually be desirable to prevent exit or return, but as a result of this law people will not move any more under the radar than they are already trying to do, because that of course remains a constant cat-and-mouse game. Ms Duthler asked for a more detailed explanation of the NCVT's message that there was a connection between the underworld and jihadists. This is, of course, based on information from our investigation and intelligence services, which are increasingly concerned that possibly returned Syrians could get weapons as quickly as possible. That is what we are paying our attention to. This requires a whole range of instruments, including those we are discussing here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u63	The Minister said that these people will not go under the radar more or less, but what does the Minister base the idea that this law can protect national security? Isn't there an extra security risk due to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u64	In my opinion, this law reduces security risks, because you can intervene more quickly. I have mentioned a number of cases. I understand very well that Mrs Wezel is asking: will this law not lead to further covert behaviour? Only, we are already finding that people with evil intentions are logically trying to stay out of the picture. That's why I don't expect them to try any more if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u65	The Minister says: I base my view that national security is more protected, on the fact that I can intervene more quickly. But those people aren't here. So how can you act faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u66	We are talking about administrative measures. It's about people who are here. You want to prevent those people from travelling or from being in certain places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u67	I understand. But you just indicated that you answered my question about that, but we will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u68	Through the chairman, Mrs. Van Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll get back to that later. Maybe he can answer it by now. Would the Minister prefer to respond to that later? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u70	If the question is directed at people who are outside the Netherlands, it is in line with the second part of my speech on the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u71	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u72	But for the people who are here, my answer goes without saying. Mr Markuszower believes that this law does not go far enough. I hope he will agree with the government that, even if it does not go far enough, it is important that these measures are taken at least. He supplemented this with the question: do we now have a picture of what terrorist measures countries such as England, Australia, Israel and the United States have taken? The answer to that is yes. Our people in the fight against terrorism are constantly exchanging information on the fight against terrorism both at EU level and beyond. The Netherlands really plays a leading role in this. So we are also structuralally monitoring how other countries are tackling terrorism, because we can learn from that. But we always want to give an interpretation that fits within the Dutch rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u73	I thank the Minister for his reply. My question went a little further. I asked not only if we have a picture of what these other countries are doing, but also to what extent that is different from what the Netherlands has so far. That was in line with my first question, which had not yet been answered: what will the Minister present in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u74	I was just ready for that, so I'll do it first. A whole series of legislative proposals have already been submitted to this Chamber. In my previous role, I have defended a law here that allows landlords of homes not to assign a home to people suspected of crimes, including jihadism. Colleagues have made further legislative proposals in this area, which are coming up. This spring, the transposition of the European directive on passenger data into national legislation will be subject to consultation. In addition, the Cabinet is working on legislation on the recording and retention of registration data, as has already been mentioned. In the Lower House, the bill is submitted to the intelligence and security services. We are also working on legislation on the extension of pre-trial detention and criminalisation of residence in a terrorist combat area. So we will talk about these issues in detail. The question in the interruption was: what is the consideration when adopting measures that other countries also have? The implementation of measures must be in line with the way in which each country operates its services in an operational sense, but also within the legal boundaries within which each country itself wishes to operate. The Netherlands has a very careful tradition in this area, which I also cherish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u75	Thank you. I understand the answer. Perhaps it is an idea which I would ask the Minister to agree to send to the Chamber an overview of the measures taken by the countries I mentioned in my question and then to reject them against the measures we have taken. If then there are gaps, perhaps the Minister can explain why we have not adopted some measures. That may then fit in with the answer he gives to the question of why it fits into our legal system or not. At least then we have a clear picture of whether we are lagging behind or ahead of the countries I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u76	I dare say that we are not lagging behind, but I would like to make available an overview of the measures in similar countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u77	I'd love to. Thank you very much for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u78	Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked from the point of view of the fact that this law does add additional instruments, but that its enforcement remains crucial in terms of the capacity of detection, how we ensure that these proposals can actually be implemented in practice. Over the past year, the cabinet has spent a number of extra money on the counter-terrorism chain. In 2015, it was 128 million in total. In the 2017 budget, which has recently been discussed in the Chamber, additional funds have been earmarked for, for example, the Special Interventions Service and the Royal Marechaussee. This will increase the strengthening of the counter-terrorism chain to a total of 150 million from 2020. That is why I believe that capacity is sufficiently guaranteed. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked how the coordination of detection and counter-terrorism is regulated in the Schengen area. I have just indicated that there is extensive cooperation within the Schengen area and beyond, for example in the EU Counter Terrorism Group and in police cooperation such as Europol and Interpol. The Schengen Information System is, of course, also widely used. I have already given the Netherlands some pride in playing a leading role in this, which is also recognised by other countries. Mr Engels specifically asked about the role of the Commission for the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services in relation to the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. The role to which Mr Engels refers has been incorporated by amendment into the other law that is under discussion today. At the time, that was also not recommended by my predecessor, but I would not be in favour of it in this respect either. In fact, a judicial review is taking place. I do not think it is logical for the Supervisory Board to supervise individual cases if the judge is already examining them. Mr Bikker asked whether the results of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u79	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u80	Mrs. Bikker. Excuse me. Ms Bikker asked whether the results of the evaluation of the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme could be shared by the inspection with the First Chamber. I'd be happy to. I hope I have answered the questions about the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism and I come to the questions about the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Again, I will start with Mr Schrijver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u81	Excuse me, Mr President, but I still have a question, also with a view to a possible reduction in the second term. We have talked about the added value and the need for this proposal. I have asked myself more specifically about the effectiveness of the proposed measures under the football law. I'm not talking about the exit ban, I'm talking about a restraining order, a restraining order and a reporting obligation. Is it really realistic to think that we can effectively combat terrorism or plans for it? I feel like this is really an illusion. Of course, I'd love to be convinced, but I'd still like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u82	Combating terrorism requires an extensive toolbox. I will never be able to identify any instrument in that toolbox that is sufficient or will even be decisive on its own. I just mentioned a few examples. They were hypothetical, but really not unimaginable. I was talking about a threat image around the Binnenhof or a suspicious organization that wants to rent a property and change a destination for it. In such situations, I do not have sufficient instruments at the moment. I would very much like to have these instruments to protect against the great threat of terrorism. Do I have a complete and final package against terrorism? No, but that is why we have spoken on this subject before. I have also announced that there will be further measures, partly national and partly international. I would really miss this part, like I'd miss the snippets out of the toolbox, without saying that a toolbox without snippets makes no sense at all. But it is a very useful instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u83	I do not want to go on about this too much, because at some point the roads are probably separating. This answer precisely confirms my concern. The hypothetical examples of the Minister are typical examples which underline my conclusion, because with these three instruments of the football law you cannot act against them, because they are simply too light for that. My next objection is that the Minister says he still doesn't have a full toolbox. Besides, he says, if I don't have these snippets, I can't. My opinion is that we have a very large toolbox. That's what makes it complicated. I can understand that in my own right. You may have a nippers in your toolbox, but if it is not effective, your feeling based on that full toolbox is rather illusory. Unfortunately, for him and perhaps for me too, my conclusion is that the Minister's answer is really unconvincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u84	But I am very curious about the way in which Mr Engels would like to act in a case like I outlined. We combine great interest in jihadistic meetings with great interest in a public building. Or we find that someone, of whom we do not yet have a criminal record, may wish to leave. Why should we not want to prevent such a person from travelling to Syria? He's not going to see the monuments there right now. At least we know that for sure. If we see these threats and Mr Engels says that there is nothing in the toolbox now to do anything about them, then why is the choice to empty the toolbox? I'm not sketching very hypothetical situations, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u85	Mr Engels, briefly on this point!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u86	Yes, very briefly, but there is a misunderstanding here. There's a toolbox. That's what I said. I have an opinion on that, by the way. I think that toolbox is overcrowded in itself. I did not talk about the instrument of the exit ban. I am talking about the three instruments that have been taken over as a legal figure from the football law. I insist that these instruments do not add anything to the arsenal we already have in this fight. So I think the toolbox is full enough. If the instruments that are applicable are properly applied, I believe that this should be sufficient to allow proper action to be taken in the hypothetical cases as well. In any case, these three instruments will not contribute to this. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u87	Then I count my blessings, because Mr Engels agrees with adding the exit ban to this law. That's how I heard him. That he has his questions about the other instruments, I respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u88	I understand that the Minister is gradually moving on to the next bill. I feel like one of my questions hasn't been answered yet. It dealt with the possible measures of refusing or withdrawing subsidies, licences, exemptions, recognitions, etc. I asked about the concrete link between these measures and the possible terrorist activities. Can the Minister comment on the interlinkage? I am asking this because, unlike the other measures, the withdrawal or refusal of a licence may be a little more difficult to provide for here. Perhaps the Minister could give some concrete examples in reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u89	That is what I was hoping to provide with the example of a group of people who, for example, ask for a change of destination for a factory building. So they want to meet in an old, empty factory hall of which there are quite a few in some parts of the country with their association. The people who asked were already in the picture with the services, because the services are concerned about these kinds of associations. In such a case, a municipality will not grant such a change of destination by appealing to this law and also to the Minister's declaration. This makes it harder to organize yourself in a terrorist context. This may not be the snippets, but it's a pair of scissors in the toolbox. But we would also like this instrument to be included. Then I turn to the amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in connection with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. Mr Schrijver again started the basic question here: how timely and necessary is this law, which makes it possible to take away the Netherlands without criminal conviction? I also started to outline the situation here. Frankly, I hope it will come true, because that is the situation in which ISIS no longer has territory. There will then be a great deal of pressure on the thousands of people who are currently unfortunately working for ISIS, including a few 200 people of Dutch nationality, but often also with a double nationality. There will be a great deal of pressure on these people to move around anyway, and in part also to go back to the Netherlands. In that case, the government considers it very essential that we should be able to say in advance to people with whom we can apply this law, and that will indeed only be people of dual nationality and also under a number of conditions: we will no longer allow you to enter the Netherlands, because you have participated in terrible terrorist activities and we consider the danger to Dutch society to be enormous; that is why we use this power. There's no such authority right now. The instrument of prior criminal conviction would really mean: first admit to the Netherlands and then see if you can apply the instrument. Then you've admitted dangerous individuals. That is right away, as I say to Mrs Wezel, the added value of the current legal possibility on the basis of criminal prosecution. With this new instrument, we can really prevent some of the people from moving back into the Netherlands and being a danger here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u90	The Minister indicated that he needed this measure because it would prevent them from entering the country in the interests of national security. But nothing shows that this is actually prevented and that this contributes to national security. I understand that the Minister wants many more tools, but the justification or clear justification why this is necessary is not given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u91	Once again, we must avoid the situation that dozens of people with Dutch nationality and another nationality will try to come to the Netherlands after the fall of ISIS. We could do that sooner, but I'd like to suggest this massive situation. Without this law, these people can just get on a plane with their passports. Then they will be intercepted upon arrival in the Netherlands and put in prison, but then they are here. So you've let dangerous people in. What makes this law possible is that these people cannot reach the Netherlands. We do not have that instrument now. They're very dangerous people. If you are willingly and knowingly joined IS or a similar organization, you are a very great danger to national security. That is a very abstract way of saying: you are a very great danger to the lives of innocent people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u92	If they want to come here, as the minister himself indicated, they'll come. But then they come in another way. It is perhaps better that they arrive at Schiphol Airport and are put there immediately, than that they are in the Netherlands and you have no control over them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u93	The whole range of border controls and security measures is never a question of one gold key. In the previous law, I said that you can't completely close it, but it shouldn't be caricatured by saying that additional measures do not make sense. As the shovelnet is finer, the chances of catching evildoers are greater. With this law, the shovelnet is made more finely messed up. This does not mean that a fish never swims past, but that the number of fish that can swim through the meshes is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u94	Finally, Mrs Wezel, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u95	When does the Minister have enough action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u96	Unfortunately, the nature of this great threat is such that I cannot predict exactly how it will be attempted to harm the Netherlands. If legislation were made on terrorism in the 1970s, everyone would have seen the Rote Armee Fraktion and the Red Brigades in mind. In the 1970s, no one had thought that we would ever have to deal with jihadism again. That was a time when in many Islamic countries women were just walking around without headscarf and the street view was very western. No one could have predicted this. I therefore sincerely hope that, on top of the measures I have just outlined, which are unfortunately necessary, we do not need any additional measures, but I cannot predict the future. I can see that it is not very difficult to mention a number of situations that can really arise and for which we do not have sufficient measures at present. I think it is my responsibility as a minister, knowing that these situations may arise, to ensure that we have sufficient instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u97	The situation outlined by the Minister a few minutes ago is, of course, not only a clear danger to national security, but certainly also to international security. In my opinion, it was a bit short-sighted of the Minister to suggest that criminal prosecution against a Dutchman can only be used if he is on our territory. There are, of course, many instruments in the Code of Criminal Law and certainly also in international criminal law in order to give extraterritorial effect to those criminal laws. Think of international arrest warrants and requests for extradition. I cannot escape the impression that the Minister places a great deal of emphasis on Dutch security. Does he agree with me that it is also an issue of international security? Does he agree with me that it is not right to work with the network in such a way that the problems are shifted to other countries which may have a much less equipped judicial system to prosecute and prosecute a Dutchman? Finally, I would like to refer to a Security Council resolution which has also embraced the Netherlands. This is very specific about the phenomenon of foreign fighters. It sets out the legal obligation for all Member States to effectively prosecute and prosecute people of their nationality. That is, therefore, something that extends beyond the borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u98	Mr Schrijver is absolutely right: criminal prosecution from the Netherlands can also take place when people are not on Dutch territory. In fact, there were also convictions in 2016 of people who were in Syria at that time. We know they're still there. I agree with Mr Schrijver that this persecution should simply take place. However, I think it is important that we should be able to prevent people who have participated in terrorist activities and whose threat is enormous from continuing those activities when they return to the Netherlands. So I think it is important that we should be able to prevent these people from moving into the Netherlands. This law offers an opportunity to have that instrument available to those people who have dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u99	The minister mentioned earlier that about 200 people have travelled. A substantial number of them have dual nationality. Should this bill succeed, they are likely to lose their nationality. However, I have read in the Minister's written reply that this significantly reduces the likelihood of them being prosecuted. Does this mean that the Minister chooses that the injustice they have committed remains in the interests of national security? Or will the Minister do everything in his power to bring those 200 files to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u100	There is now an active prosecution, or at least an attempt is being made to prosecute. There's only a limited number of convictions left, but there are hundreds of files pending. That is what we are continuing to do. However, this is no reason not to add an additional instrument as proposed in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u101	I read there are 217 files. That's very good. If we adopt this bill, I fear that the drive to bring those files to a successful conclusion, to put these people behind bars and to get them where they belong when they commit crimes, will still be reduced. For the Kingdom, they no longer pose the danger that the Minister was just as strikingly sketching. Can the Minister assure me that the Kingdom will also work for this group? They are citizens who had Dutch nationality when they committed these crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u102	I simply have the drive that these people are punished for their misdeeds and therefore end up behind bars. That is extremely difficult, but that is no reason for me not to make the proposal I am making now. This proposal provides an additional guarantee for the safety of innocent people in the Netherlands. However, it does not replace the wish to pursue, to summarize Mrs Bikker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u103	Is it right, then, to note that the Minister is very sensitive to the different legal situations of those concerned? Of course, people from the Netherlands are also present in those areas with a single nationality. I am pleased to hear the Minister say that, of course, we will target our criminal instruments and all the possibilities for prosecution. Do I hear correctly, however, that for people of multiple nationality, he is going to try to prevent them from entering and abandoning the weapon of the principle of personality, of nationality? He will then actually pass it on to the countries of second nationality. Is that nice, from the point of view of international cooperation in the field of international security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u104	Terrorism is very international in nature. There are thus inevitably several countries that feel the same urgency as I do and when we feel in the Netherlands to prosecute and punish people. This law doesn't change that. This law adds additional protection for innocent people in the Netherlands. However, he does not replace the will to prosecute. I think that is at the heart of Mr Schrijver's question and Mrs Bikker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u105	You're a new Minister of Justice. I can understand that. I can therefore imagine that you do not immediately distinguish between the principle of territoriality, the principle of personality and the principle of universality. What you are saying can only be done under the principle of universality. That is, after all, giving out the instruments, in the words of Mr Engels: the much better-stocked toolbox that we have under the principle of personality and nationality. It goes without saying that you have more possibilities for Dutch people than for non-Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u106	That may be so, but that is no reason for me to say that this law is not desirable. I started my speech with a balance of interests. I indicated that in tackling terrorism you are constantly balancing interests between human rights, crucial values of the rule of law, and indeed the persecution of terrorists, and protecting your people from that terrorism. This law offers an essential addition to that last aspect: people who have an incredibly fearful past, who would be a real threat on their return, may still be able to travel in the Netherlands. That might make the prosecution more complex. It is already very complex, because these people are not in the Netherlands now either. But that fact in itself is not so difficult that I would not like to offer this additional opportunity for the protection of people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u107	I feel like we're talking a little bit past each other right now. The Minister seems to want to give the impression that it is only an additional instrument, whereas it is argued here by several colleagues that the Minister is depriving himself of an instrument by removing that nationality. It is therefore a question of effectiveness. What's the Minister giving up on that? People can't come in here anymore. Maybe that's the safest thing for the Netherlands. Let's assume someone committed a crime, but at the same time that crime will not be prosecuted because it will stop. The Minister therefore removes the possibility of prosecution by introducing and using this instrument. So it's either-or, and not and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u108	Mrs. Wezel, next, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u109	Following that, I wonder what the Minister is basing himself on when he still has jurisdiction to track them down or prosecute them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u110	Mrs Strik's question places it very sharply, in the sense of or-or. It's not like that. Mrs Van Wezel asks what possibilities there are to prosecute. There are also very few possibilities now. People are somewhere in a very distant country without functioning authority. We have succeeded in condemning a number of people who are there, but they are not behind bars, at least not behind bars. Unfortunately, therefore, we have little opportunity to do what we would like to do. At the same time, we note that at the moment when these people want to go back to the Netherlands, we do not have any instruments to stop them at the border. We can introduce this instrument with this law. There is therefore no question of a black and white situation; it is not that without this law we could prosecute all those people. If only we could! It's not like we can't prosecute anyone with this law anymore. No, because even now we are prosecuting people who are in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u111	Isn't it precisely the moment when this person wants to return to the Netherlands? The minister says, "Now it's hard to prosecute, because they're abroad." Yes, but this legislation sees exactly when that person wants to travel in the Netherlands. That is precisely why there is the possibility of arresting and prosecuting that person. And that is precisely what makes the Minister much and much more difficult, perhaps even impossible. Actually, the Minister makes that impossible, because they can't come in anymore. So you can no longer grab them here, prosecute them and bring them to trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u112	But then you're dealing with a balance of interests, not a black and white situation. These are people we have to worry about extremely much. You'll just travel to Syria, knowing what's going on there and then report back to the Dutch border! We really need to be extremely concerned about that. And in that case, we ask for this additional instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u113	We are now very much on the criminal route, while the bill is on the administrative route. Although there is a connection with the criminal route, what puzzles me is that there has not yet been any irrevocable conviction in the Netherlands of someone who has prepared or is at risk for a terrorist attack. Mrs Wezel has said this before. How effective will any criminal proceedings be? My impression is that it is not so effective. Otherwise, that route would have been frequent. However, I would like to hear that from the Minister. How strong is the instrument of a criminal route at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u114	Fortunately, the situation is not so bleak that no one has ever been convicted on the basis of the terrorist charge. However, I have already indicated that it is extremely difficult, specifically when it comes to people who are not now in the Netherlands. That is why I could not agree with the black-and-white weighting that we could now pursue very efficiently. I wish! Nor can I agree with the observation that this instrument would suddenly have disappeared as a result of the introduction of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u115	I think it is a very shocking conclusion from the Minister that the criminal justice chain is apparently not sufficiently capable of prosecuting and condemning terrorists at the moment. If he applies this administrative measure, it will have consequences. Now he still has jurisdiction to prosecute. Then he just doesn't have jurisdiction anymore. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u116	I do not agree with that statement either. People have now been convicted who are in Syria. They've been convicted; they're just not behind Dutch bars. So it's not like there's no jurisdiction. I'm just giving it to........................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the same time, I would like to point out that there are hundreds of cases at the moment where there are very strong efforts to prosecute these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u117	Now there is jurisdiction, because the person concerned has a Dutch nationality and has committed a criminal offence somewhere in the world. In a moment this person is no longer a Dutchman because the Dutchmanship has been withdrawn, and can therefore no longer be prosecuted. That's the problem. This is the result of this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u118	But then we come to that international aspect. The Netherlands is not the only country with an interest in the prosecution of terrorists, who unfortunately carry out their activities in several countries. So other countries, too, will be fully committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u119	Can the Minister indicate how long a criminal procedure lasts on average? It is perhaps a bit of a rhetorical question: do we also have time to wait for a legal criminal procedure until an irrevocable conviction has taken place? Or does the Minister still need this administrative measure as an order measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u120	Mrs Duthler will forgive me if I do not remember the answer to the first question. I will no doubt be given that answer for my second-term reply. Mrs Duthler also asks if we have time to wait for a legal criminal procedure. No. An important reason for submitting this law is that the situation can just happen that there really is a flow to the Netherlands. Then you really want to be able to keep the door shut as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u121	I would like to make two more points. I have already referred to that Security Council resolution. I'll have the number ready in the second term. That resolution imposes an obligation on the national states to prosecute and prosecute foreign fighters with regard to their own nationals. I do not think that we should walk away from that in the case of people of multiple nationality if that happens to suit us. I would also like to say that we must continue to talk within the terminology of the legislative proposal and that we must really show that we are joining a terrorist organisation. May I take myself as an example? I was invited by the Interparliamentary Union to participate in a mission to Syria. That mission has been postponed over and over again. I have asked our fellow countryman Sigrid Kaag for advice on several occasions about the Dutch nationality of the United Nations Special Envoy in that area. She said you shouldn't go now, because it can take suicidal traits. Imagine a mission like this going ahead. Hopefully we won't fall within the scope of the bill. Then I wouldn't be able to do the work in the Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u122	I will reassure Mr Schrijver immediately. It's about behavior and intentions. If he still manages to take part in that journey, he does not have to worry under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u123	In my opinion, the word "intent" is not in the legal text, but that aside. The Minister now argues what his concern is for certain persons of dual nationality. He doesn't want to see them in this country because they're a threat to security. However, people have also travelled with only Dutch nationality. He now argues that there is a danger if this bill is not passed, but I am very concerned about the people who only have Dutch nationality. How does he reassure me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u124	I had not yet got to the question that Mrs Duthler had asked about this: how do we deal with the group which has only Dutch nationality? Returners will of course become the subject of a criminal investigation. There are specific cases where persons have returned. They're now under lock and key because they're the object of such an investigation. The same will apply to these returners. Of course, there is no way in which this bill can be inferred that we would see less cause for concern and punishment for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u125	So the Minister says: you don't have to be afraid, because we have good measures for it; these people are under lock and key. He also says that returners will be arrested as soon as they enter the Netherlands. What exactly is the reason for treating people differently because of their dual nationality? The Minister now claims that it is possible. He says we can bring them to justice and we can protect them from possible terrorist activities, because we can immediately put them in remand. That, while his speech had just been based entirely on the idea: if we do not do this, there will be major accidents because we have no instruments. I'm not very good at putting that next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u126	There is a group of people of Dutch nationality that we will have to admit here because people of Dutch nationality are admitted to the Netherlands. For that, we will immediately untie the criminal instruments. We will also be very concerned. At the same time, when the period has come to an end, we will be very concerned about these people. These concerns are accompanied by all the instruments we have for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u127	The Minister states that it is indeed possible. I would say: let us then go on this path for all the Dutch who come back. Then they're locked up and then we can do a criminal investigation. If necessary, we can then bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u128	Those people will also be released after years of terrible acts in a terrible area. After that, we're gonna be worried sick. We will translate that into the deployment of the security services, but those people will be on our territory. They won't have gotten any better from spending years in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u129	I have a very brief question for the Minister. Was he still planning to go into the two case positions I outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u130	Yeah, I'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u131	Okay, I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u132	I ask Mr Van Rij to forgive me for answering the interruptions. I see that the response to Mr Van Rij's case positions is on the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u133	I understand this is gonna take a while. We had a dinner break planned at 7:15. Whatever the situation, I'd like to suspend for dinner break at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u134	Mr Engels asked whether the legal grounds were sufficiently precise. Then it's the word "behavior." Is that a final definition? In any case, it is a very factual concept. You're looking at what someone's doing. In any case, the behaviour must show whether someone intends to join such an organisation. That is why Mr Writer does not have to worry about this law even if he went to Syria. Indeed, the conduct, in this case the trip to Syria, is not accompanied by the intention to join IS. Mrs Duthler asked how the actual conduct would be determined and whether it would be sufficiently certain. Information from the security services will play a major role in this, although many of these people also express themselves on social media. Mrs Bikker asked whether this threat was based solely on membership of the organisation or on individual consideration. The legal criterion is met if a person has joined a terrorist organisation. That doesn't have to mean someone's been in combat. These may also include support activities. However, in the proportionality weighting, which will indeed take place in the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, the role played by the person concerned may be significant. In this context, Mrs Strik asked about the effective relationship of the person concerned with the Netherlands. That is indeed an essential concept in international law. When such a bond exists, it does not automatically mean that there will be no reason for the minister to invoke this law. What will be decisive in any case is that people should not become stateless. In addition, an individual treatment will take place, but I cannot say that an effective bond automatically results in this law not being applied. That really depends on the individual weighting of the case. I come to the case of Mr Van Rij's question. He was talking about two young men. One wants to go back to the Netherlands and declares that he will improve his life. The other one doesn't give that statement. The history I have to assume in this case is that there has been a long-term stay and activity in ISIS area. The mere fact that someone claims to want to change his life is no reason not to apply the law. An individual weighting will also take place here, taking into account the fact that people can occur differently than they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u135	It's not just that the person concerned wants to make his life better. On the contrary, I have deliberately added additional material to this case: the person concerned states that he wishes to submit to criminal prosecution in the Netherlands. In the other situation, that is not the case. That is precisely the essence of the debate that is now taking place: at what point is the administrative instrument being seized and at what point is the criminal instrument being seized? That is not clear to me from this answer. The minister says he wants an additional instrument. That is what the CDA Group wants to be involved in, but it is, of course, about the concrete situation and the balance of interests that is being created. I have also mentioned a number of other elements: let us say that the person concerned is a minor; let us say that there is a family situation. Would the Minister care to elaborate on this? Because this answer doesn't clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u136	The fact that someone indicates that he wishes to cooperate in criminal proceedings and that he is prepared to face a penalty will be taken into account in the individual assessment. I cannot say that this fact will in itself lead to the retention of Dutch nationality. Then it will have to be weighed very well how reliable that repentance is. It can also be a very attractive route to regain a permanent position in Dutch society after several years of imprisonment, while maintaining the same terrorist intentions. On the subject of minors, the law states: 16+, or the family situation. I already pointed out to Mrs Strik that the family situation, the relationship with the Netherlands, is taken into account in the individual assessment, but I cannot say in advance that this will always lead to the preservation of Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u137	The band is taken into account, but how can the minister not say anything? The fact that there is only an affective relationship with the Netherlands and there is no link with the other country is no reason not to apply the withdrawal ground. For me, it remains supervague on the basis of which criteria the individual consideration will take place. Of course, an individual consideration requires a certain discretion, a certain space, but it is now so vague that I don't see any bandwidth. Isn't there yet? Isn't there a concept-AMvB yet? Can the Minister send us a further letter this week which will clarify how this will take place, both in terms of behaviour and in terms of balance of interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u138	The minister says that a certain person, even if he wants to submit to criminal prosecution, even though he is actually convicted of criminal offences in the Netherlands. I'm just gonna pull a whole different parallel. During the Second World War, 25,000 people lost their nationality because they had served in foreign military service, namely among the Nazis. A very large part came back to the Netherlands. Some have not been prosecuted, others have been prosecuted, but in many cases nationality has been restored. I understand that the Minister cannot give direction in all cases, but I would ask him to indicate more clearly when he makes use of the additional instrument and when criminal prosecutions are being carried out. I agree with Mrs Bikker that it would be strange, as it would seem, given the way in which the Minister now interprets it if the administrative means were always to be taken. This means that dozens of people, if not hundreds, are most likely to avoid criminal prosecution if there is no certainty that they will be prosecuted in the other country, Turkey in my case position. Then justice doesn't get its course either. Perhaps the Minister would like to focus more on this. Otherwise, it might be something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u139	The threat to national security is crucial to this balance. That's why I can't just say that if someone claims to have improved his life and wanted to serve his sentence, that's enough reason not to apply the law. We can have very good reasons to believe that this gentleman or lady will be a threat to national security. I have emphasized that this law does not replace the will to prosecute the Dutch Government. Mr Van Rij talks about Turkey, but that is not a country that gives the impression that it would not want to prosecute people who have been active in IS. Once again, precisely because international terrorism is a threat to many countries, sometimes it is also arbitrary to decide in which country an attack is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u140	The Minister says that it is so difficult, even here in the Netherlands, to prosecute these people. Where does the Minister base his statement that Turkey is going to prosecute? Why should Turkey and why not us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u141	Turkey is even more active in Syria than the Netherlands. Turkey is even directly at war with IS. I would therefore know no reason why Turkey should not be prosecuted. However, this does not alter the fact that it is extremely difficult to prosecute people who are in a war zone far away. That seems to me to be a statement that nobody can disagree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u142	I note that the Minister is in need of a new block, because the questions of interruption have all been answered. That's why I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u143	I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u144	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the part of the argument that concerns the balance of interests that the Minister will use in an individual decision to withdraw. This consideration will be further developed in the AMvB. Mr Schrijver, Mrs Strik and Mr Engels asked what criteria would be used. A first interest that will be involved in the assessment is the proportionality of the withdrawal of Dutch nationality, taking into account the role played by the person concerned in the terrorist organisation and hence the threat to national security. A second important issue is that of detection, prosecution and trial. We have just discussed this in detail. I have already indicated that this is a very important component for the government, so we are very much considering it. The third interest that we consider concerns the consequences of the loss of Union citizenship. The consideration of this interest fulfils the requirement of the Rottmann judgment that a proportionality weighting should be applied when Union citizenship is withdrawn. Mrs. Strik specifically asked for this. As I said in reply to Mr Van Reij's question, this consideration will also involve possible minors, special personal circumstances and the question of whether an undesirable statement is contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR, which relates to family life. This whole balancing framework will also be applied in an AMvB. The AMvB itself is now with the Council of State, so I can't send it to you. I understand that Mr Schrijver would appreciate it if I sent this to the Chamber on paper, prior to the discussions in the political groups. I will make sure that at the end of this week this overview, which will also be published in the AMvB, is available on paper for the Chamber. Mrs Bikker asked why the balance of interests was chosen to be assessed by the Minister rather than automatically lapse. Because of the Rottmann judgment, there must be an individual balance of interests. As I have just said, this will be carefully considered, on the basis of a number of criteria. Mrs Bikker also asked how the Minister can check whether the information is accurate if it comes from confidential sources. The Minister has an obligation to ensure the accuracy of the notice. He will monitor the consistency of the message and provide a sound basis for the conclusion in the post. Mrs Wezel asked whether a person whose Dutch citizenship is withdrawn should then be admitted to the Netherlands in order to allow the continuation of family life here. I have just indicated that family life is an essential part of the balance of interests and that, therefore, it will not be declared undesirable if it violates the right to family life. Therefore, if an undesirable statement is not possible, no withdrawal of Dutch citizenship will take place. Mrs Strik and Mrs Wezel asked whether there was discrimination, because the legislative proposal only affects people with dual nationality. The answer is no, because the distinction between persons with multiple nationality and persons with a single nationality stems from the obligation not to cause statelessness. Thus, we cannot and will not withdraw nationality from people with only Dutch nationality, but the European Convention on Nationality explicitly leaves room for the withdrawal of nationality, provided that this does not result in a statelessness. This distinction already exists in the current Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u145	The Minister does not need many words to say that there is no discrimination here, because one has two nationalities and the other does not. I indicated in my speech that the European Court of Human Rights is not always sufficient. Apart from that, they may also be in almost the same circumstances. I am referring in particular to situations of people who are actually connected here and who are rooted here. They may have been born and raised here and may have never been in the other country. They've shown the same behavior. Yet one can come back and the other can't. That must be sufficiently substantiated, mustn't it? The Minister states that the argument is that one person has a single nationality and not the other, but can he elaborate on this? As I have already argued, the fact that you cannot make one stateless is not sufficient justification to deprive the other of nationality, when it comes to the same situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u146	I just indicated that weighing the actual band is part of the balancing framework. Then there is the question of discrimination. Because international conventions, the European Convention on Nationality is the most applicable, already distinguish between people with and without dual nationality and thus also lay down rules for these different situations, we cannot maintain that it is by definition discriminatory to include the distinction made by an international treaty in Dutch legislation. That international treaty actually instructs the signatories to work it out in national legislation. This has already been done in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap and we do so here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u147	The European Convention on Nationality is one thing, but this cannot justify possible discrimination under the ECHR or money laundering. This proposal must be assessed separately from the ECHR. Doesn't it lead to a forbidden distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u148	In my opinion, this does not lead to a prohibited distinction, because judgments have been delivered by the Court in Strasbourg. They were not about making a distinction between single and double nationality in themselves, but about the right to family reunification or about the distinction between students and workers, for example. They were not about the fact in itself that you distinguish between two non-identical cases, namely between people with and without dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u149	Article 3 of the Fourth Protocol of the ECHR states that everyone has the right to leave their country and return to it. It doesn't say, "but not the people of dual nationality." It says "everyone." Isn't that contrary to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u150	No, not on double nationality, because then there's "his country" left. It would be contrary to the ECHR in the case of a single nationality, as there would be no "his country" left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u151	It says "everyone" and also the Netherlands is the country of the person with a double nationality. The Netherlands has also ratified this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u152	Sure. I would point out that we are not competing with that, because there is 'his country' left. Mr Schrijver asked me to comment on the position of minors and specifically on whether there could be tension with the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. As Mr Schrijver knows, the scope of the law is in any case limited to people 16 years of age and older, i.e. almost-adults and adults. Mr Schrijver's question is aimed at those near-adults who have shown very serious behaviour. It really has to be about knowingly joining a terrorist organization. In that case, there is, in the end, a basis for people of this age to withdraw their nationality after, as I mentioned earlier, applying the whole framework of consideration. Mrs Bikker asked whether, in view of age, it would also be taken into account whether someone in criminal law would be treated in accordance with Article 77. Since there is no criminal law in this law, I have already indicated that we will apply it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u153	Just a little clarification. I read in the Acts that the House of Representatives adopted an amendment to introduce the age limit of 16 years by analogy with criminal law. In that we say: we treat someone aged 16 to 18, given his maturity, according to adult criminal law. Now we say the other way around, by analogy with criminal law: if it is desirable that we treat someone aged 18 to 21 as a young person, we will treat him according to juvenile criminal law. How does the Minister treat vulnerable people at a young age? Is that always like an adult? Or does he include immatureness, if it is clear from all the data? Then we're dealing with a vulnerable near-child who's legally mature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u154	I understand the clarification. Unfortunately, I cannot answer this question in black and white. In that long framework of consideration which I mentioned and which I will send to the Chamber, I indicated that we will consider the seriousness of the behaviour and other special facts. There's also some kind of residual category. So there's room to weigh that up. That way I can answer the question, but I cannot say that it is always taken into account. That depends again on the individual case. A 20-year-old can do very horrible things, knowingly and knowingly. We will also have to be able to charge that person, whether it is criminal law or this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u155	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that he will consider this when it is desirable, given the character and youthfulness or impatientness of the person concerned, but that the seriousness of the actions is of course self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u156	Sure. That fits in with the balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u157	I have a follow-up question to Mrs Bikker's question. Of course, the seriousness of the crime, including crimes committed by young people, will have to count seriously. But I hope that also counts where the young person concerned has his social roots. I shall return to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not mean that the best interests of the child must always be paramount. If we apply this to the case we are dealing with, if it is clear that the real relationship of the person concerned is mainly in the Netherlands, for example because the parents live here, because the criminal justice system can be applied best or because the person concerned is entitled to a probation process, to a reintegration and rehabilitation process, then I hope that the Minister will show in the letter that he takes this into account. Of course, my group is very pleased with the promise made in that letter and we look forward to seeing its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u158	The letter comes and will, because it appears on the list of criteria I mentioned, address the importance of detection and prosecution, as well as any minority and special personal circumstances of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u159	How is the Minister going to do that research on personal qualities, such as youth and development, when the person is abroad? If that cannot be done, will it automatically not be taken into account or will it be asked, for example, whether someone is lagging behind in development or an autistic disorder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u160	Some data are easy to trace, such as age. If people are in the picture in relation to such serious suspicions or facts as this is about, it is indeed common practice for the services to have information as Mrs Wezel calls it, i.e. whether it is someone with a particular personality disorder or a special development history. So that information will often be present. That is also why this point is part of the balancing framework as I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u161	Could the Minister promise that, as with a probation report, enquiries will also be made, so that at least the Minister can have access to them when taking his decision and the judge in his test?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u162	As much as possible. This also depends on the specific case. A very serious decision has to be made, so there is no reason not to. Mr Van Rij asked me to address specifically the question of whether the proposal is not contrary to the ECHR, Union law or the Constitution. I have already said that the European Convention on Nationality provides this space. Article 7 refers to conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State party. The same treaty also means that its implementation should be laid down in national legislation. I have already indicated that there is no discrimination, so there is no conflict along that route with Article 1 of the Constitution. The balancing framework, as I mentioned, also means that a review is taking place under Article 8 of the ECHR: the right to family life. Mrs Duthler asked whether organisations on the list of terrorist organisations could get rid of them. That list shall be updated periodically. If a judge finds that the Minister's decision is unjustified because the organisation does not meet those criteria, that will, of course, be a reason to look at that list very seriously again. That brings me to legal protection. Mr Van Rij asked why automatic appeal is necessary and why it is not enough for family members to be able to appeal up to the fourth degree. He also asked why the Registry Law was omitted. I think it is very important also in view of the discussion here, in which everyone actually points out at his or her tone that it is a major power that that power is being reviewed by the courts. Such a test keeps me and my successors extra sharp when applying them very carefully and very carefully underpinning these decisions. So I think it is an important guarantee that the judge will review these far-reaching decisions by default, even if the person himself does not appeal. Maybe he doesn't because he doesn't know immediately. And I can't guarantee that family members will be interested in doing this. After all, I'm not very good at judging the family ties. Therefore, based on the consideration that I consider that appeal as a standard part of this measure to be crucial, I do not think it is logical to calculate those registry fees. Mrs Duthler asked if the judge would consider whether the organisation was right to be on that list. I have already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u163	The minister just said he doesn't know if the family's interested in appealing. On what grounds can the family appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u164	The family can appeal because this decision is published. Mr Van Rij suggested and raised the question whether the appeal by the family could not replace the bill. In response, I said: I cannot guarantee that the family will appeal, even if she is aware of it. In my view, then, it is important for the protection of the law that there should be another judicial review in such a far-reaching decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u165	If the decision is published, can the family appeal? And this is published in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u166	It'll be published. And of course, family can appeal. But the question was whether that would be a sufficient procedure. I say to that that consciously it says in the law that we want a standard test by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u167	What the Minister says is clear. But isn't this a strange figure? If the person concerned does not appeal and his family members do not appeal, the State shall appeal against its own decision. What is the value of such a profession? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u168	I agree with Mr Van Rij when he says that this is not a standard procedure. But we note that this is an important and special instrument. That is why I think it is logical, and indeed essential, that this judicial review should take place, even if the person concerned is not himself making that appeal. The latter is something you see in other cases in administrative law. I therefore believe that this additional review is essential. Mr Van Dijk asked whether this would not create a walhalla. I think that's an interesting comparison if it concerns someone who doesn't necessarily follow the Germanic religion. Those people are pretty scarce anyway. As far as I am concerned, it is not the walhalla or any other version of paradise, but it is an essential guarantee for a far-reaching procedure. I would like to say once again that I fully support this procedure. But since I am so in favour of it, I also look forward with confidence to that judge's review.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u169	Mr Van Rij may ask another follow-up question. Mr Van Dijk may then intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u170	I would like to leave the reflections on the Valhalla to my colleague in the SGP. I am sure he will come back to that. The question is what value this profession has. I'm trying to imagine. The State shall appeal against its own decision. Which file does the judge actually get his hands on? Is the State really going to deepen the role of the interested party's lawyer? I don't quite see that yet, but perhaps the Minister can convince me on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u171	The court shall be given the information on the basis of which the Minister has taken his decision. So he can also see if the balance of interests has been done correctly. I am convinced that Dutch judges are indeed blindfolded using the sword and the scales and that the fact that it is the State that started this procedure does not lead to a different outcome than when the person concerned himself started that procedure, because that does not matter for the weighing of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u172	I would like to draw your attention to the strangeness which Mr Van Rij rightly expressed in my view, but I have a slightly different approach. We have always known the construction in which someone who entered the service of an army of a foreign power automatically lost his nationality, and that then there was no question of the Minister taking a stand against such a decision. Then why are we proposing this construction if someone joins ISIS? Why the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u173	I should like to comment on the situation which Mr Van Dijk has outlined, because the Rottmann judgment, which has already been pointed out, does not allow for this automatic loss, and in that case an individual decision must also be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u174	Does the Minister say that this ex-post review is a result of that European Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u175	The individual decision is a consequence of the European Convention. From the automatic review I indicated that I think it is a useful guarantee in relation to the far-reaching nature of the legislative proposal. Mr Engels asked whether the government attaches fundamental importance to the right of citizens to nationality. Yeah, totally. The legislative proposal is also formulated in such a way that no one will become stateless on the basis of the application of this law. Mr Engels and Mrs Strik asked whether it was examined whether or not it is likely that a person would be less likely to commit an attack outside the Schengen area, and whether this law would not make the international approach to terrorism more difficult. In response to the interruption before the break, I indicated that the fight against terrorism is in the interests of many countries. Especially in the example of Turkey that came up here, I have no reason to believe that Turkey would not prosecute. There is also cooperation with Turkey, but many other countries where that person might be, will have their own reasons to prosecute this person. Mrs Strik asked whether the risk of illegal residence in the Netherlands is not greater. I can never be completely foolproof that people do not settle illegally in the Netherlands, but the controllability of these people's access to the Netherlands is getting much bigger, because these people can no longer legally enter the Netherlands. They will have to try to reach the Netherlands in a much more complicated and striking way. Mrs Duthler asked how the requirement of voluntary service was assessed when entering foreign military service. The requirement of voluntary service is laid down in the law of one of the members mentioned it in the first period of time in order to distinguish between those who are forced to enlist by compulsory service and those who really do so voluntarily. The latter group is addressed by the article to withdraw nationality from foreign military service. Mr Van Dijk asked why foreign military service is not tested against national security. That's because the ground for withdrawal is different there. The ground for withdrawal from foreign military service is the absolute lack of loyalty in those people. They volunteer, not forced by military service, in foreign military service. That is a very different consideration from offering a threat to national security. The national security review is not necessary when applying the foreign military service article. Mrs Bikker asked if the bill was still effective, because in the Basic Registration Persons are no longer registered as a double nationality. The fact that this is no longer registered in our Basic Registration Persons does not mean that that nationality does not exist. It's a little hard to track her down, but she hasn't disappeared, and it's not impossible to find out the other nationality either. Mr Van Dijk asked why the law does not speak of an obligation to declare an undesirable, but of a power. That is because this balance of interests is necessary, partly on the basis of the Rottmann judgment, which prevents automatic withdrawal. Mrs Wezel asked whether there was any coordination with countries such as Turkey and Morocco. We do not discuss our changes to national legislation with governments of other countries. Moreover, Turkey and Morocco themselves have a rather special nationality policy. However, we have good contact with many countries on the fight against terrorism. If we implement this law, we will contact the countries affected by it through diplomatic channels. Mrs Wezel also asked if there have been any convictions for terrorism. Actually, I've already answered that question. The answer to that is yes. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u176	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Most of the answers were convincing to me. I have one more question about the law on the fight against terrorism. Administrative measures on restrictions of freedom of movement may be imposed for a maximum period of six months. Of course, they have to be motivated. They can be extended, again for a period of six months. For this reason, too, there is a need for justification. I can imagine that it is becoming increasingly difficult to justify an extension, because given the nature of the restrictions imposed on the person concerned, it is becoming increasingly difficult to demonstrate that the person poses a threat to national security. Although the person may have been attached to the house, he may still be a threat. How does the Minister see this? That was my only question. I can already say that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I would also like to say that I am very much surprised at the way he has dealt with these legislative proposals in the short term. I think it is good to note, because that seems to be getting a bit snowy, that the draft law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is about particularly serious situations. The reason is that these people willingly and knowingly chose a life at ISIS and the accompanying struggle for a utopian Islamic State. By swearing allegiance to it, travellers sign for a life characterized by excessive violence and an all-embracing ideology, for one purpose only, and that is destruction of our free Western society. We are talking about such people and it is indeed a very heavy tool when the Dutch are taken away, but that is an instrument that is unfortunately necessary; an additional instrument in the toolbox, as the Minister said. The CDA Group is in favour of this. We have also been convinced by the commitment that the Minister will, in a letter to the Chamber, define the framework of scrutiny with three criteria: proportionality, the role played or played by the person concerned, the importance of detection, prosecution and trial, and the consequences of the loss of Union citizenship, including in relation to family members. I think it's very good that the Minister sends that letter to the Chamber. I also understand that the General Measure of Governance is ready in concept, but that it is now before the Council of State and that it cannot yet share it with us. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to comment on the two cases I have presented. This is mainly about the minister's message of office from the intelligence and security services. That's not just a thing. They have considered whether or not to withdraw that Dutch citizenship or not. that a notice of office is sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office to opt for prosecution. We can assume that great care will be taken in this regard. The Minister said in his reply that this is always weighted. Even though the opinion in the notice of office to withdraw the Dutch citizenship is still being discussed with the Public Prosecutor as to what the consequences will be for whether or not to prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u179	Do you think about your time, Mr Van Rij?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u180	Yes, I will. Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I was way too optimistic with my two minutes. I'm gonna finish up. In addition, it is monitored by the Supervisory Committee on the Information and Security Services, as a result of the Recourt amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u181	Mr. Chairman. Terrorism is one of the most serious violations of human rights. We have had an interesting debate with the Minister on how to combat such flagrant human rights violations, without disproportionately violating human rights themselves, because then we would throw away the baby with the bath water. Hats off for the way in which the fresh Minister has answered all the questions. In my response, I follow the order of his response, starting with the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. I thank the Minister for the commitment that it will never be used lightly and will only be handled carefully, constantly watching for good guarantees to maintain individual freedoms, knowing that judicial review is always possible. I have a question about that judicial review. The Minister said that by definition it is only possible afterwards in the administrative court, but there is an article in the General Administrative Law that may allow for prior judicial review. Why did the government not want to invoke this exception when we agree that it is often customised and that differentiated treatment is necessary? Perhaps precisely because of the maintenance of human rights, including the right to a fair trial, a prior judicial review should be possible. I will, in principle, advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal. I must say that the second bill, the repeal of the Dutch law in the interests of national security, is stabbing me in the throat, if not one stage further if a stone is on my stomach. For my group, the right to nationality is one of the most important fundamental rights. I believe, in principle, that it does not belong in the toolbox to deprive a nationality and perhaps to grant it again over time. Of course, under the European Convention on Nationality, nationality may be deprived if the essential interests of the State are seriously harmed. I see this as a high threshold clause, which, in my group's view, is not exactly respected by the less precise wording in the bill, such as 'interest national security', 'threat national security' and 'behaviours that can be interpreted as'. We have been able to exchange many pros and cons in a fascinating debate. We have established that this is not only a matter of national security, but also of international security. It is not appropriate for a country such as the Netherlands, a state governed by the rule of law, in my view, to shift the problems caused by a fellow Dutchman abroad to third countries and their often weaker judicial system. In this context, I would like to reiterate the important Security Council resolution, and now with its number, Resolution 2178 of 24 September 2014, which deals both with the national responsibilities of Member States to keep their legislation in order and with the need for international cooperation in the fight against terrorism. It is also clear that foreign fighters must be prosecuted and tried in their own country, partly because this is the best environment for reintegration after the trial of their sentence. I would ask the Minister once again to take up the importance of this resolution, which is so important to the Netherlands, now that the Netherlands will soon be joining the Security Council. I continue to worry on behalf of my group about the position of young people in categories 16 to 21 years. In the light of all this, I will not yet be able to advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. It is becoming a bit of a blinker, because as far as the amendment of the Passport Act is concerned, I am giving the green light on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u182	I was just about to say "think about your time," but the last light was green. Mr Van Dijk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u183	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Compliments for that. I also found the answer to be largely satisfactory. I still have a few points. As stated in the first term, the SGP has and continues to have difficulty with the temporaryity of the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. In view of the seriousness and duration of this matter, I find it illogical and undesirable. In any case, I welcome the Minister's clear commitment to critically consider this aspect in the evaluation. At the beginning of my first term I made a heartfelt compliment to Minister Blok because he was so quickly able to defend these legislative proposals in the Upper House. I would like to add a compliment. I really think it is an achievement that the Minister can defend with such a serious and comprehensive face that if a terrorist is taken from the Netherlands, then the Minister himself will appeal against his own decision. Because, mind you, it's about a person who hates our Dutch society, who has joined IS and who threatens to come back to our country to commit an attack. Because this person may be too busy killing people in Syria to be able to read in the Staatsroek that his Dutchmanship has taken off, the minister has to challenge his own decision. I have our rule of law very high, but this borders, as far as I am concerned, on the absurd. For that reason, I would like to table a motion on this part. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Van Rij, Mr Duthler, Mr Knip, Mr Markuszower and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in connection with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security obliges the Minister to bring his own action against his revocation decision, even if the person concerned clearly does not wish to exercise his right of appeal or even to object to the lodging of an appeal;]] [[Whereas, in this context, the figure of the automatic appeal constitutes a special arrangement;]] [[calls on the Government, for this reason, to investigate further alternatives to the compulsory automatic appeal in the situation where the person concerned does not lodge an appeal, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34356-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u184	I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk a question about the significance of his motion. If I've heard correctly, that motion is using the word "evident." Perhaps you, Mr President, could read out the relevant phrase for my knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u185	I shall do so: 'the Minister is obliged to make his own appeal against his own revocation decision, even if the person concerned clearly does not want to exercise his right of appeal or even have objections to appeal'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I got it right. Should I clearly not use his right to appeal as a seeker in such a way that this at least means that the person concerned is aware of the administrative measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u187	No, in this respect it is good to focus on the operative part, which states that, if the person concerned does not bring an action, alternatives to the compulsory automatic appeal will be sought. The person concerned chooses to be active in Syria or such an area. It is not the problem of our rule of law that he cannot be informed of what is in the Official Journal. It is his own problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u188	It seems to me that Mr Van Dijk is contradicting himself and I do not know him like that. That is why I am asking a second question. In the explanatory statement he gave both before and after the motion was tabled, he said that it might mean that the person concerned does not really know about the measures taken against him. If I may interpret the relevant phrase in the motion, 'even if the person concerned clearly does not want to exercise his right of appeal', in the ordinary sense of the word, then I can only read it that this person must be aware of it. I do not want to make an amendment to this, because you need to know what you want to put in the motion, but I hear a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u189	Maybe I can fix it. Mr Schrijver quotes a phrase from one of the observations. I note that this is the spirit of the bill and the Minister's explanation: even if the person concerned clearly does not want to make use of the profession, so even if he had indicated it himself, even then the Minister will bring his own action. So that is not my vision, but the scope of the legislative proposal and its explanatory statement. I have just explained my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u190	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his response to our input. We have debated a legislative proposal with far-reaching measures and very extensive and wide-ranging powers. I have put forward a number of criteria in my contribution. I note, however, that the Minister has not made a very substantial move towards the D66 and OSF groups on any of these criteria. I will therefore have to return to my group with that story and report on what the Minister said on the issues of added value and the need for the proposals. At the core he says: I need a full toolbox; there may be doubts about the effectiveness of certain instruments, but I feel comfortable as a minister with a full toolbox with all the nipples that go with it. Our groups consider that to be extremely thin. We have also talked about legal protection, which is not in all respects optimal in relation to the particular nature of these legislative proposals. The Minister also said that he is not prepared to change this or consider it in response to questions from our political groups. I have to say that, in particular, both proposals for administrative measures and the reduction of the Netherlands and the relevant legislation have not been clarified more than there was. Today, our groups have not been much wiser in this respect. As far as the effectiveness of the measures is concerned, I would like to stick to what I said in my interruptions: that I find it extremely strange to think that potential terrorists would be impressed by some of these measures. I am referring in particular to the instruments that come from the football law. In terms of the effectiveness of the proposal to withdraw Dutch citizenship, I would point out the point made by Mr Schrijver on the United Nations resolution. The doubts that existed with me at the beginning of the debate have not been removed. We will have another group meeting, but I suspect that I will not propose with much enthusiasm and a positive input to my group to support these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u191	Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the way in which the Minister is trying to provide the best possible answer to all these questions. I also appreciate the support he has had, which has enabled him to read in on this dossier in the short term and to take up a position. However, I am shocked by the conclusion that criminal investigations into terrorists who are abroad are going badly. How is it that these investigations are still producing so little results? Does that have anything to do with the reorganisation of the investigation services? Does it have anything to do with the cuts in the criminal justice chain? Does it have to do with the fact that the investigations are too complex? I would like to hear from the Minister why there is no irrevocable verdict yet. Apparently, there's a lot of research going on, but where does it go? However, I would like an answer from the Minister to the question on which he bases that national security will be protected by the measure. I have motivated why the measure will not remove the threat and will create an additional security risk. I have not heard the Minister refute this, so I assume he shares that view. I understand that he would like to do so in the interests of national security, but what does he really base it on? If we can't prove that it's working, what will justify the violation of citizens' rights? I share Mr Schrijver's concern that we cannot simply shift the problems we have with the terrorist investigations to other countries. Our investigation and criminal prosecutions are high-level. To give that out to countries such as Turkey and Morocco is certainly a decision. You can't actually make it international to put your own problems to someone else, especially without consultation. This is all the more true because it was agreed in the resolution that Mr Schrijver referred to. That is why, with Mr Schrijver, I would like to hear the Minister's answer to the question of how he looks at the content of that resolution. It clearly states that the country itself must ensure that it can prosecute and prosecute. In the eyes of the SP Group, we must tackle our own problems and not throw them over the fence. I have two technical points to make. The first concerns hearing again and again. If the family appeals to the government, can it defend itself? The second is a question on which Mrs Strik has also asked a question. I may not have heard the answer to that. Can we then call on the excusable delay, for example because someone has not been able to take note of this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u192	Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term answers. It's great how he's been able to get his hands on this file in a short time. I congratulate him on the deliberate way in which he has defended the legislative proposals. The bill on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is an additional measure to prevent people who pose a major danger to Dutch society, because they have joined a terrorist organisation, from entering the country. It is a measure to prevent these people in Dutch society from preparing and possibly carrying out attacks. That's what it's about. It is an administrative measure, an administrative route that can be followed alongside the criminal route. The VVD Group does not close its eyes to the legal hooks and eyes, for example with regard to double versus single nationality and to the foreseeability of the application of discretionary powers. The Minister said that he would send a letter to the Chamber about the latter. If the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats takes stock of the situation, bearing in mind that the judge has the final say, it can wholeheartedly support the government's proposed measures. It supports the draft law repealing Dutch citizenship and supports the other two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u193	Mr Knip waives a second term. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u194	Mr. Chairman. Can I have Mr. Knip's time now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u195	No, Mr Knip had signed in for three minutes, but that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u196	I'll fill all six minutes... No, I'll start soon. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the Minister for his first-term response. As far as the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism is concerned, the Minister convinced me in his reply that it could indeed be a means of restricting the movement of potential jihadists or incoming people. It should be noted, however, that for those who have two nationalities, the exit ban is of limited value, because the other passport still allows you to cross the Schengen border. All things considered, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill. The same applies to the bill attached to it, for which the Minister for the Interior has heard our first term. This consideration is different when it comes to the loss of Dutch citizenship in foreign military service or in the interest of national security if one has joined a terrorist organisation. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that these will be serious cases and that he will never act lightly, but on the contrary be vigilant about the proportionality of his decision. That's good. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to send a letter to the Chamber, in which he further explains what the balancing framework is. He will also involve someone's minority. It concerns both the 16 to 18 category and the fact that people aged 18 to 21 would have the same vulnerability as minors. I look forward to that letter. I have to say, however, that there is a paradoxical situation in which, in the case of dual nationality, the aim is to keep a person outside the national borders, because criminal law may not be enough, whereas we rely on it in the case of a single Dutch nationality, and the Minister also expresses confidence in it. For my group, then, the right must have its course. For the Group of the Party of European Socialists, persecution and trial are precisely the strength of our rule of law. They must always be at the forefront. I think that here, after all, what this ministry is called: Security and Justice. This bill puts Security first. We would like to see justice at the forefront so that the person concerned is truly condemned for all the terrible acts he has committed. That is what the first commitment must be. In my group's view, the chance of justice is decreasing with this bill. That is why I will advise my colleagues to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u197	Mr. Chairman. The groups of the Party for Animals and GroenLinks would also like to thank the Minister very much for his response and the effort he has made to convince us. That didn't work out, I can tell you. In my view, although security is of the utmost importance to all of us, our groups really have a fundamentally different view of how best to guarantee that safety. It is clear that national security is a priority for the Minister and that it prevails over international security. That was also very clear from the little debate we had and in which the Minister said: criminal prosecution if it has to be done, and then, apparently, we can put people behind bars. But when we say: do so with bipatride Dutch people, the minister actually says: no, I would rather not, because then we have prosecuted them and they are released and we are still stuck with those dangerous people. As far as I am concerned, this was a bit of a joke: the Minister is not so much concerned with the question of whether we can prosecute them criminally, because we do not want to prosecute them criminally; we find this easier. However, the Minister knows exactly that the instrument we now have is right that we are pursuing criminal prosecution and that, after the trial and after serving the sentence, you can still withdraw Dutch nationality. Only then we've let the law run its course. That is our strong preference. In the context of national security, the Minister also says that the other country would be prosecuted. I'm afraid this is gonna look like some kind of competition that's gonna withdraw that second nationality first. If this is going to be the mode in which countries interact with each other and it is going to be Turkey, for example, then Turkey will rather think: wait a minute, he also has Dutch nationality, so I will withdraw the Turkish, because then the Netherlands will be screwed. This does not seem to me to be a basis for working with each other on security in an equal and solidarity manner. The same applies to the way in which the Minister dismisses the application of Article 3 of the Fourth Protocol, that as a state you are obliged to admit people of your nationality. "That's what the other person does," as far as we're concerned, that's not the way we have to go. The distinction between single and double nationality remains very problematic for our groups. The Minister insists that the situations are not identical, because one has a single nationality and the other has a double nationality. However, if you remove those differences, you can still encounter exactly the same situation when it comes to rooting, the situation and the fact that someone has no connection with another country. As I have already said, the Court calls this analog, and it will then be checked whether that distinction is justified. We, too, welcome the promised list of criteria that will play a role in this balancing of interests. We're facing that list. My question is whether the decision itself is sufficiently justified. Are all these criteria passed and is that reflected by the Dutchman? Can he see if there are sufficient grounds to lose his Dutch identity, so that someone has real arguments that he can bring to court? Or can it also be here, as with the administrative measures we have been talking about, that information remains secret? Could it be that the Dutchmanship is being taken from you, but that the information is secret and that only a possible judge could face? I would like an answer to that. As far as administrative measures are concerned, I would ask the Minister, if he sends a letter, to give details of the criteria he is going to apply in relation to behaviour and national security. Finally, the motion for a resolution. We cannot support this motion. We have the idea that the motion ignores the possibility of situations where people simply have not been able to take note of the fact that this decision is being taken. If you ignore that fact, you'll deprive people of access to justice. That is in any case contrary to the law, I presume: Article 47 of the Charter. The modality isn't that weird either. We also do it in foreign detention. If a person has been detained in foreign detention for four weeks, a judge will take his own decision. It is precisely because it is such a radical measure to take a person's freedom that a judge should be able to check it in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u198	I would like to make one small point. In no way does the motion deny access to justice. That's not the point. It is a question of whether the Minister should make that appeal of his own motion. But access to justice is just open. That's up to that person himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u199	In that case, you do not recognise that it is a question of possible situations where the person has not been informed of the fact that that decision has been taken. In order to avoid this, the guarantee is so important that the judge looks at it despite the fact that no appeal is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u200	That is precisely the difference between the SGP and GroenLinks. Are you gonna put the responsibility of knowing where someone is going with the minister, or are you gonna keep it with that person? We say that's up to that person. It is not the problem of the Dutch rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u201	Perhaps this point also affects our major criticism of both legislative proposals: the awareness, the foreseeability. It is quite wrong about that, and then such a step, so that people later are confronted with such a result, is very far-reaching. I would like to endorse Mrs Wezel's question. Indeed, I had asked that question earlier: is it then over and out, or is it still possible to appeal? Finally, we continue to object in principle. As far as we are concerned, the rule of law is really at stake if both proposals are adopted. On the contrary, we want to guarantee more in such far-reaching decisions rather than less guarantees. It seems to be both far-reaching and less processes are guaranteed for this purpose. Our objections also apply to effectiveness. As I have already pointed out, these legislative proposals make it more unsafe than safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u202	I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to reply immediately or if he needs a few minutes of suspension. I understand there's no need to be suspended. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u203	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the speakers for the compliments they have expressed, and those who have expressed all their support, of course, for their support. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether the extension of restrictions of freedom under the first law would not make it particularly difficult to justify the continued threat to national security. Mrs Van Bijsterveld is right that after a period of six months you are faced with a very sharp balance. Then why has the criminal route not yet started? I've already indicated that that main route will always be followed as much as possible. Still, I can't rule out the fact that you still need a follow-up period. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld that the justification is more important, but I would like to have that possibility of extending. Mr Van Rij pointed out the great value to be attached to the document, including in the decision on the withdrawal of nationality. From that message of office, the very great threat, with which he began his second term, must be made clear. I very much agree with him. I hope that in the first instance I have indicated that the Minister will not take over that message of office without any care, but will really consider whether there is a strong basis and whether there is a logical conclusion to be reached. Then, on the basis of that statement of office, the whole balance of interests I have outlined will be applied. I understand that Mr Van Reij considers it very important. Under the bill, Mr Schrijver asked for administrative measures that were not chosen for a prior judicial test. He pointed out that the General Administrative Law left that possibility open. However, I hope he agrees with me that the main route of the General Administrative Law is indeed that the government takes a decision, that there is, of course, legal protection, but that it runs along the route of ex post through the administrative court and that, for example, in foreign law, where it can be very far-reaching decisions, that route is also applied. However, this law skips the objection phase, making sure that the route can be dealt with as soon as possible. On the basis of this bill, the administrative judge was also held to deal with that appeal more quickly. On top of that, of course, there is the usual possibility to ask the court for a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u204	Maybe on the last point, the legislative proposal on temporary administrative measures, I can ask one more question about judicial review. I fully agree with the Minister that the main rule is: ex post administrative review. But the Minister obviously agrees with me that an exception is possible. His comparison with the foreign judge is indeed relevant to the extent that the foreigner will not be expelled from the country before the court has ruled afterwards, after the administrative measure. For example, I can imagine that there is a great deal to be said before, for example, a ban on entry abroad or a ban on exit here, to wait for what the judge has said and precisely to speed it up than in special cases to do it in advance, in the context of a differentiated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u205	The delay referred to by Mr Schrijver will then be obtained through the courts. That's the way it goes in foreign law. This is also used to a great extent. That route is open here, too. Mr Schrijver is not yet convinced about the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. However, I understand from his words that my list of the framework of consideration is in any case moving in the right direction as far as he is concerned. I hope that by putting this together again in a letter, I will convince him and, of course, the other Members of this Chamber. Mr Schrijver also asked a question about the United Nations resolution. I would like to ask him whether he is okay if, in the same letter I have already promised, I will deal with the way in which we weigh that resolution. If I do that on the spot now, I may be running out of time. Well, we'll see about that. Mr Van Dijk spoke a lot of friendly words, but has difficulty with the temporality of both laws. He filed a motion on letter H, which in any case is not entirely correct in her reasoning. It states that the law obliges the Minister to bring an action of his own motion against his own revocation decision, even if the person concerned clearly does not wish to make use of it. The draft law before us does not state that the Minister is appealing against his own revocation decision. It shall be stated that the Minister shall inform the court or court of first instance of his decision and that, as soon as the court has received such notification, the person concerned shall be deemed to have appealed against the decision. So it is not the Minister who sets that up. The Minister shall inform the court. In the course of justice, it is assumed that that person himself brought the action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u206	This is going to be very detailed in this way. As it says here, I have the impression that the legislative proposal leads to an automatic appeal at the time when the alleged terrorist is not doing anything. That is the thrust of this observation. Doesn't that seem obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u207	So there is not a situation in which the Minister is suing the Minister. The person concerned shall be deemed to have brought the action. He will obviously not be there at that time. In the first period, the objection was raised that the Minister could be suing the Minister. The wording of the law indicates that this situation is not at all relevant. Mr Van Dijk may have another reason to say that he thinks it is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u208	At least that's what's gonna stick. Apart from the exact wording of the observation, I assume that the request made in the motion is clear to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u209	If I were to ignore the recital, the request would be clear, but I indicated that I came to this judicial review very carefully. Considering everything, I advise against this motion anyway. Mr Engels asked why I still insist that this measure should promote national security. I am a little disappointed that Mr Engels has not dealt with the situation I have presented. That would also have been an enrichment of the debate, because we, as a society, are faced with the question of how we deal with such situations. Anyway, Mr. Engels is asking me the question. I am truly convinced that the first legislative proposal will prevent such a person from moving to locations where we have serious concerns that he might pose a danger, even before there is sufficient ground for criminal action. We can also make it a little more difficult for an organization that is still in the process of being set up to carry out its nefarious plans in a dedicated building. I think it is very important that Mr Engels and I are closer together on this point, that we can prevent the proposal from leaving for Syria or Iraq, at least if this is done with the intention of carrying out terrorist activities there. With the bill for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, we get an instrument. Mr Engels is not convinced that this adds anything, but we can actually see that there will be an additional instrument. That can never guarantee national security on its own, but it can make a real contribution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u210	Perhaps just for the sake of understanding: the hesitations and disagreements with the Minister ultimately concern only the three legal figures in the Football Act that have been transferred to this legislation. As far as the exit ban is concerned, it is indeed different. Our group looks differently at its effectiveness, but that is another argument I have mentioned, namely the protection of the law and the violation of fundamental rights. That is why we do not give a positive assessment of this instrument either. But just for clarity, these are two different assessments of two types of instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u211	I understand that, but that is in addition to the question you asked me why I think I need those instruments. I'm gonna keep that conviction anyway. In that sense, you have not convinced me again. Mrs Wezel asked whether there could be a change due to delays. This concerns the Law on the Revocation of Nationality. The answer to that is no. Because there is that review at the courthouse, which Mr Van Dijk is somewhat less happy about, there is a proper legal guarantee and there is no further possibility of exceeding the deadline. It is indeed true that Mrs Wezel's question is another one that the family can defend. Mrs Wezel also asked whether such a person could at the end of the procedure be asked to restore it, even though the judge's test confirmed it. You can't just do that. Nationality legislation has the possibility to ask after five years, along the route of the Council of State, to obtain the Dutch citizenship again. That's the only route that can be followed. Mrs Wezel also asked whether the fact that persecution is so difficult has to do with reorganisation or money. I pointed out in the first instance that Mrs Wezel is a bit too gloomy, because there are indeed convictions for terrorist offences. At the moment there are also several hundred criminal investigations in connection with jihadism. So the capacity is definitely there. I also indicated in reply to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question in the first term that very substantial additional money has been allocated to the fight against terrorism. There is therefore no reason to establish a link between the complexity of such cases. I didn't think it was new that it was extremely difficult to prosecute crimes committed abroad, whether in Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Somalia or in this case Iraq or Syria. Once again, that does not reduce ambition, but anyone who is interested in the process of specialized courts for international crime and the deadlines they need to reach convictions can not be surprised that it is a major task for our Public Prosecutor and our security services, however expert they may be. I have still not been able to convince Mrs Strik, but she is going to read my assessment framework with interest. It is indeed my intention that this should be applied. A very large part of this balancing framework is, by its very nature, public. That was the question. It's hard to check age or roots criteria for classified information. Inevitably, information from security services also plays a role. In doing so, secrecy will be exercised wherever necessary, but this will never apply to the whole framework of consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u212	I didn't care if that part is public. I was concerned with the information on the basis of which it was decided to withdraw, i.e. behaviour and national security. You have mentioned the administrative measures, where only the courts may have access to them. Could that also be the case when Dutch citizenship is withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u213	When it comes to these behaviours, this will be partly based on information from the security services. In doing so, a part of the protection of resources will have to be kept secret, if necessary. But what doesn't have to be kept secret will of course be available. I hope I have indicated that, once again in view of the depth of the measures, it is crucial that if they are applied, that justification is sound and verifiable. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term, with the promise that the additional letter with the balancing framework and the way in which I see this law working within the UN resolution, to which Mr Schrijver asked, will appear before the weekend. I hope, then, that after this very thorough debate in my view, a majority of the Chamber will eventually say in this complex balance: there are sufficient safeguards to ensure that the instruments that these laws are going to provide are actually applied where this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u214	I understand that Mr Van Dijk wishes to speak briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u215	The Minister was kind enough to make a proposal to make the motion even better. In that light, I would like to propose a technical adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u216	I will read the motion again and tell you where it is other than the text you received earlier: "The Chamber, heard the debate, Noting that the legislative proposal Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in connection with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security obliges the Minister to do so on his own initiative, and now the amendment "to carry out an act leading to judicial review of his own revocation decision..." And then we go back to the text you have: "... even if the person concerned clearly does not want to exercise his right of appeal or even have objections to appeal." I don't need to read the rest of the motion because you already know it. So after the word "ambitshalve" the text is deleted "appealing his own revocation decision" and that becomes "I will say it again" "executing an act leading to judicial review of his own revocation decision, even when the person concerned" and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u217	Mr Van Dijk has amended his motion, following my initial reaction. For my part, I'm gonna try to see if we can find each other on another part. There will be an evaluation of this law in three years' time. I fully understand the operative part of the motion, which says: look again at how to set up legal guarantees in another way. It is very helpful for me to be able to do so at the time of the evaluation, because then we will have some experience with a system in which Mr Van Dijk does not have that much confidence. Then I can promise that in that review in three years' time, or my successor in office, I will explicitly address that question. If this is the case, it may be possible to indicate whether it should be changed. If I could explain the motion like that, I could leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u218	I thank the Minister very much for his hand-out, but I think three years are too far away. I would therefore like to maintain the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u219	But then I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-eerstekamer-5.u220	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the legislative proposal Amendment of the National Law on the Netherlands in relation to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security (34356 (R2064))? I see a finger going up. Then I propose that we vote on that next Tuesday. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the draft law Temporary rules on the imposition of restrictions on freedom of action on persons who are at risk of national security or who intend to join terrorist groups and on the refusal and withdrawal of decisions in the event of serious risk of their use for terrorist activities (Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism) (34359)? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote on that next Tuesday. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the amendment of the Passport Act relating to the automatic cancellation of travel documents of persons who are subject to an exit ban (34358 (R2065))? I also see fingers going up on that. I propose that we vote on this next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motion tabled.
