ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, and in particular the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The share of renewable energy increased from 5.8% to 5.9% from 2015 to 2016, an increase of as much as 0.1%. Let's take a look at the numbers. In total, 5% more renewable energy was generated in 2016. That's not much, but it's an increase. But when we look at the growth of fossil energy, we see that this increase is almost thirteen times greater. For those who want to calculate it: in 2016, 6 petajoule (PJ) of renewable energy was added, compared with 76 petajoule of fossil energy. This is the Achilles heel of government policy on renewable energy. The Minister often says that more renewable energy will be generated in the next few years, which is also important, but at the same time it is only half the story. Because if the total energy consumption goes up much harder, we'll get further away from home. Once again, I ask the Minister whether the Ministry should not devote much more effort to energy saving. Only with new wind farms at sea will we really not get there. We have to get rid of fossil energy anyway. The Animal Party feels it's a shame that we're investing money to make fossil energy look more sustainable. Last year, RWE's coal power plant dragged in almost EUR 1 billion to temporarily green, whatever that means, by burning wood. Chopping trees to burn them is no more durable than burning coal. Also subsidising manure fermenters does not contribute to renewable energy. Manure production is and remains very damaging to nature and climate, but funding has already gone to EUR 2.5 billion. The government has the role of a driver in the transition to renewable energy. Legislation can stimulate the transition to renewable energy. The removal of the gas connection obligation is an example of this. But the question is whether that deletion has much effect if it turns out that building gas-free neighborhoods is much more expensive than building neighbourhoods with gas connections. As long as this remains the case, gas-free new construction areas will remain the exception. What tax measures can the Minister take to reduce or even eliminate this price difference, in order to make gas-free housing the new standard? The role of driver also includes setting a good example. Many opportunities to generate solar energy remain unexploited in municipalities. Is the Minister prepared to encourage municipalities to use municipal roofs for this purpose? Finally. Can the Minister give an update of the municipal energy procurement policy? Last year it appeared that only one in three municipalities really buys its power sustainably, despite the agreement with the Empire to do so from 2015. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The numbers don't lie. CO emissions increased by 1% in the last year and the share of renewable energy increased by only one tenth. With these numbers, we're really not gonna make it to our targets. The recent study by CE Delft also shows that the feasibility of the 25% reduction target, forced by the Urgenda case, is becoming increasingly out of reach. In response to Parliamentary questions, the Minister simply waved away this investigation. Surely it is high time, even for you, in your missionary period, to make new deeds. Do you have a list of additional measures and do you want to share them with us? And do you want to resume the conversation with ENGIE, for example? That company wants to get rid of its coal power plant itself and was talking to your ministry about it. Please continue with that, with the greatest speed that can be imagined. We have setbacks on land and on imports, because it is much lower than what was expected. Another potential setback is the sale of the shares of the municipalities that are shareholders of Eneco. It must be avoided that Eneco falls into the hands of a party that only looks at profit maximization and does not fully embrace Eneco's sustainable mission. Can the Minister do everything in his power to prevent the sale of the shares at only the highest price? Would he like to investigate whether Eneco's vital function as the largest renewable energy producer in the Netherlands deserves additional protection, for example against a hostile or a foreign takeover? Should the municipalities sell the shares, they should in any case impose strict conditions on them. Does the Minister wish to discuss this with the municipalities, also because employment is at stake? At the moment, there is a lawsuit between Greenpeace and RWE on the sustainability requirements of sawdust. In response to questions from GroenLinks, the Minister states that the government is not a party to the covenant on biomass between energy companies and nature and environmental organisations and that the agreements in the covenant are not relevant to the SDE+ criteria. This may be formally true, but it is a pity that the Minister ignores the outcome of the energy agreement consultations on this point. In any case, it would be better to temporarily freeze subsidies until the outcome of the trial is known. If the judge agrees with the nature and environmental organisations, the subsidies should be withdrawn again. If the Minister does not do so, he already opts for one party in advance, namely RWE. This could seriously damage the energy agreement and the creation of a possible successor. I therefore call on the Minister to take action on this issue as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have one more question. Mr Van der Lee spoke about Eneco and the shareholders. It got a little wooly to me. It was a bit of an appeal to the Minister, like: talk or do something! But be clear now. Does GroenLinks think that the position of shareholders should be limited? Should there be a legal provision for this? There are municipalities that want to sell. Should that be forbidden to them? Can Mr Van der Lee clarify that a little, because the position of the shareholder is, I think, important?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have two comments to make. If you've listened carefully, you know I was pretty clear. I say on the side that the municipalities are the shareholders. They are fully competent to decide on this. That is why I call on the Minister to talk to them to put Eneco's mission and sustainable energy production first and to avoid creating a mechanism in which Eneco's shares are sold, just because of the highest price that can be achieved. That's one side of the story. The other side is an ongoing discussion with the Minister. We are increasingly seeing that vital sectors and companies are at risk of falling into foreign hands. That has already happened in the energy market. You know how it went from the sale of Essent and Nuon. Foreign parties purchased those energy producers. This has a negative impact on the energy transition in the Netherlands itself, because the decisions are taken outside the Netherlands. With Eneco we now have the largest renewable energy company in the Netherlands, with public shareholders. That mission is being carried out very decisively by Eneco. It seems to us to be very sensible to go through with this. If the municipalities do not want to do so, the other discussion does, namely a threatening sale of the shares to a foreign party. I would like the Minister's opinion on this, because he also has a very strong opinion on it in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think this is special. If municipalities want to sell their shares, the minister should talk to local authorities and ask if that is a wise decision. I don't think that's appropriate. In addition, I think GroenLinks is in a lot of municipal councils. GroenLinks is even administratively responsible. Isn't it much better to put that responsibility there? It's got to be the choices of these municipalities. They have a role in that. I do not think that this minister has any role whatsoever in engaging in this conversation with these municipalities. That's really up to the shareholder. We have a representation in that, at least I assume. That is where sensible decisions can be made. That is where the debate must take place. We don't have to do it again on a detour through the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I really believe that it is very good in our democracy for all governments, regardless of whether they are at low, provincial or rich levels, to consult each other on important issues. I'll do the same within my party. Together with council members from a number of municipalities that have the majority of the shares, I have also argued in the Algemeen Dagblad why it is better not to go for sale. Mr Bosman can do the same to his colleagues. I assume he's also talking to them about their position on the city councils. We are talking about a major societal challenge, the energy transition. We see from the figures that we are not going to achieve the 25% reduction target, while we still have to go much further in order to achieve the Paris agreement. We must tackle this crucial challenge together. There's a role for the minister. Moreover, it is also about protecting Dutch companies from foreign acquisitions, which have negative repercussions for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve the climate targets, the share of renewable energy needs to increase significantly. More renewable energy is being generated, but it is simply far too little. Fossil remains lord and master. It is time to redesign the energy supply system. The system is now so designed that fossil gets plenty of space and the biggest polluters seem to benefit most. We have asked questions about this again this summer, but time and time again the Minister and his colleagues in the cabinet have left it to take a critical look at it themselves. Research agency EY also states this: the way the energy tax has been designed acts as a brake on the energy transition. As we have said before, the burden and appetite are unevenly distributed. That's gonna take the speed out of it. It undermines the really big steps. This summer it also turned out that municipalities might want to dispose of their shares of Eneco. Fast pursuit of profit at the expense of long-term vision; old-fashioned politics. Worldwide privatisations are being reversed. In 1,600 cities in 45 countries, services have returned to common ownership. When we look at our German neighbours, we see that energy is being made public on a very large scale, because otherwise the goals will not be achieved. The sale of Essent and Nuon to foreign energy companies RWE and Vattenfall led to the loss of 4,400 jobs and also a large part of our control was lost. As a result, the Netherlands is seriously lagging behind in achieving the energy objectives. Eneco is the greenest of the largest energy companies. This whole debate is about us lagging behind on the share of renewable energy. Without Eneco, we may be going backwards. Is it true that the Minister should agree to this sale? What does the Minister think of the Correspondent's statement: Without Eneco, the new cabinet will never achieve the energy objectives? How does the Minister think that local sustainability can be shaped if the energy companies are large foreign multinationals? What role does the Minister see for these companies in the renewal of the Energy Agreement? Mr Van der Lee has already asked, but I would like to ask again on behalf of the SP: will the Minister make a pass on the spot and first come with the municipalities with a long-term long-term vision that is good for both the municipalities and for the whole of the Netherlands, and do not take irreversible steps until then? The SP is against outdated politics and wants to keep Eneco in public hands. We're considering a second-term motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Our children and grandchildren must be able to enjoy life just like us. They want to be able to take a hot shower, charge their smartphone, and always at a good price. We also want to enjoy all nature, the ice floes of Antarctica and the fish in the oceans. That is why we have agreed worldwide to reduce CO2 emissions. With the energy agreement we took the first steps and in 2015 we set sharp targets in Paris. That's what we need, and we're gonna get those targets. We're not alone in that, but fortunately the whole room stands for that. Almost the whole room, I must say. The biggest blow to renewable energy is going to get the Netherlands out of the wind farms on land and at sea. The construction of these parks will take a long time, but as soon as delivery starts in 2020, the equivalent of five conventional power stations at sea will be added in three years. From that moment on, the Netherlands will rise sharply on the rankings. By using this system we keep the costs of construction lower and achieve our goals. Thanks to this minister, I dare say. Do you think it could go faster? Sure. That might have been possible, but then drivers should dare to make harder choices. A wind farm on land is being countered by local drivers and parties in this Chamber. Talk about a wind farm off the coast and this room is starting to flutter again. The VVD is not always enthusiastic about all the measures, but we do know that something needs to be done. If we agree to that, then we will live up to it. This minister has made difficult choices, has been opposed by this Chamber and local directors, but thanks to the VVD we are going to achieve the goals for renewable energy. The VVD is in favour of an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply. The focus should therefore also be on the problem of CO in the open. It's only when we're gonna send that, that we can really work on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	I don't really know what I'm hearing. We all know what a nuisance these windmills cause on land. We've had a lot of civilians here begging us to get those damn things out of their backyard. Because sometimes they're so close to homes. In the Netherlands they almost put it in your backyard. People have a lot of problems with that. I can actually hear Mr Bosman say that the VVD is fooling around with all the citizens' objections and that the VVD continues with all the oppressive windmills. Is Mr Bosman not listening to those citizens who have such a nuisance? Is that a complete joke to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think Mr Madlener has a somewhat selective hearing. We take responsibility and the PVV should do so. It helps, also in the administration of the country, to take responsibility when you see big problems for which you have to find solutions. Of course, we must listen to people, to citizens, to residents who are involved and who may be affected. Then as a government and as a driver, you have to take the time and take the responsibility to explain this. However, sometimes you also have to take steps and dare to take steps that are important, not only for the local environment but for the whole of the Netherlands, and perhaps for Europe or the world. That's the responsibility of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Bosman made it quite clear in his first term that the Chamber has been bothering to listen to the citizens who are affected by it. According to Mr Bosman, the VVD keeps its back straight and keeps its appointments. You should be able to listen to arguments from time to time. I sometimes see whole villages being ruined by his windmills. I think the Chamber should listen to that. However, I can hear Mr Bosman saying that he is making fun of the citizens, and I find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	I will say it very nicely, but Mr Madlener is exaggerating. Of course we listen to a lot of people. It's not my windmill either, it's our windmills. We all believe that these are important for the future of the Netherlands, for the future of the sustainability of our energy supply. We have a role and a responsibility in that. Again, the PVV does not take that responsibility. He pushes everything away, finds nothing important and especially listens to the popular vote, the populists. That's okay, but I think sometimes when you take responsibility, you have to make painful decisions. That's what I stand for. I'm afraid so, too. I'll explain, and I'll take that responsibility with me to my people. There are also VVDs who suffer from it. Then I'm gonna explain. Of course I'm listening, but listening doesn't mean you're always waving along. Maybe the PVV should listen to that better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Bosman says that we are going to achieve the targets for renewable energy. I'm really helping him hope that, but I wonder how the VVD can be so sure about that. That's what I'm curious about. Reference is made to energy projects in the future, but if Mr Bosman has listened to my story, he has also heard that the share of fossil energy has risen very much. As long as we don't do anything about it, we're really not gonna make it to the sustainable goals. Can Mr Bosman respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	It's funny: biomass is a sustainable form of energy. That is what we agreed on in Europe. Now we're having a discussion, but it's renewable energy, only the Party for Animals doesn't personally think so. In the agreements we made internationally, biomass is also a form of renewable energy. Because everyone lays down different restrictions, you don't like biomass, another doesn't like windmills, another doesn't want sunshine on land because it's big panels. If we make international agreements on biomass reform, that is a responsibility that we all have, and an opportunity to do. You may say that you do not think so, but that is your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	That's not an answer to my question. Firstly, the only difference between biomass and coal is 300 million years. Coal is made up of the trees of 300 million years ago, but the CO emissions are the same. Even if you thought of it as renewable energy, I also said we're not gonna make it if the total amount of fossil fuel doesn't go down. In recent years, the amount of fossil fuel has increased more rapidly than renewable energy. As long as we don't do anything about it, we're not gonna make it. How does Mr Bosman feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think we have served Mr Wassenberg at his beck and call. The last cabinet closed five out of ten coal power stations. You must be so proud of that. That's really good, isn't it? That's a huge step. I will be very honest: it was also a huge step for the VVD. But we did support it and just did it, because we think it is important in terms of energy supply, which we want to make more sustainable. Mr Wassenberg is now pretending that nothing is happening and it is only rising, but I do not agree with him because we are taking great steps. Of course it is fossil, but I sincerely hope that the share of gas in the energy supply will increase. That's what you see. These emissions are much lower than those of coal. I'm still a big supporter of CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage. We can make big strides with that. You can see in all the reports that it's important for the future. I am also in favour of nuclear energy. Why is Germany such a problem? They're shutting down the nuclear power plants. Of course, that's a shame. They should never have done that, because then the CO savings would have gone much faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	One small correction. I wasn't talking about an interpretation. I said that last year the fossil fuel increased by 76 petajoule and sustainable with 6 petajoule. That's not an interpretation. Those are the hardcore numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would like to ask Mr Bosman why he is not speaking more deeply with the energy producers himself. He just mentioned CCS. Uniper and ENGIE have left the project. I spoke with ENGIE intrusively this summer: the company wants to get out of fossil. It was already in conversation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs to close his plant. That conversation has been stopped by the Ministry with the argument: we are going to achieve the 25% reduction target. That target is now on the road. Does Mr Bosman not agree with me that the Ministry should talk to ENGIE, if the company itself wants to leave the plant, about how we can facilitate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think ENGIE is just a company. If it wants to shut down the plant, it has to shut down the plant. Isn't that just a business choice? If you think it's no longer economically profitable, you shut it down. That's the choice of ENGIE. You shouldn't sit in that as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	I don't quite follow the consistency. You're just pretty proud of the fact that you helped five power stations close down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Now a sixth can be closed, but you are completely pulling your hands off it; the company has to know that all by itself. We have the national energy agreement, don't we? The Government has committed itself to the execution of a judge's ruling. We don't seem to make it to the target. You're gonna take a chance like that, right, as Minister of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	The assumption is that we don't seem to make it, but there's already a little room for us to make it; for the same money we'll make it. The energy agreement was very clear. In that we made agreements with a lot of players. That is what I think is important, because that is crucial for the future of the Netherlands. I'll hold on to that. If it had been up to some parties in this Chamber, we would have broken it open again and we wouldn't have come out anywhere. That is why I think it is important that we make these agreements, and that is why I am very proud that we have closed those five coal plants, in good consultation with Greenpeace, but also with the energy parties, NGOs and governments. I'm proud of that. If we work it out that way, we can do a lot more. I therefore sincerely hope that we will have an energy agreement 2.0 in which we can take many more steps. But in the meantime, when a company says'my coal power station is no longer economically profitable and I want to close', I say heartily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	But such an important producer is also a partner in the implementation of the energy agreement. Then you're gonna talk to me about that, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think I'm very clear. A company is a company, and if it wants to close, it closes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve the Paris objective, we will have to invest together in a more sustainable energy supply. This transition requires a lot from our society and from our companies. We're only at the beginning of that transition. Then it is nice to see that energy production from renewable sources, for example from wind and solar energy, shows an increase of 20%. At the same time, these figures also raise questions. Is it because energy consumption and energy production have increased because of economic growth that more renewable energy should be produced in order to reach 14%? To what extent is this already taken into account in the energy agreement and how? The Dutch Emission Authority published the final figures for greenhouse gas emissions in 2016, showing that CO emissions increased by 1%. In addition, this summer CBS announced that CO emissions in the second quarter of 2017 were 1% lower than in the same period last year, despite economic growth. Then, of course, it is the question, to which many colleagues have rightly already informed, how the Minister looks at all these figures. We also see a decline in energy imports, while increasing imports are being taken into account in the National Energy Exploratory. What does this trend mean for our national task?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	You are asking a very fair question, but it was also asked earlier in Parliamentary questions, which the Minister has also recently answered. He's basically waving away the investigation and saying "wait for the energy explorations" and "I have doubts about these figures, because I'm hoping for windfalls again." What do you think of that attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	I thought this question could be put in plenary. That is why I am asking the Minister this question here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	So you implicitly state that you do not think the Minister should wave this away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	I will not quickly say that the Minister is diving away, because I think he is generally very clear, especially in the area of renewable energy. However, we do see different figures at different times of the year. Everyone explains them very differently. Next thing you know, you're gonna get a bunch of numbers and interpretations. Then the question is whether we're gonna make it or not. I think that the Minister can answer that very clearly today, and I expect him to do the same. I'm just gonna put something down for him. Last Monday we received a letter from the Minister on the opening up of the SDE+ last spring. It is, of course, fantastic that so many projects are being supported and are likely to be implemented in the coming years. How is the Minister going to ensure that renewable energy is also promoted cost-efficiently, as the SDE+ was set up at the time and was also aimed at by former Minister Verhagen? What are his expectations for applications in the autumn round, for example? For we see that the number of investments can increase because we are making more and more money available for renewable energy, but how can we manage to do that cost-effectively? I hope the Minister will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wish the people of the Upper Wind Islands good luck and also the cabinet in dealing with the disaster that has taken place there. We are now talking about renewable and renewable energy. I have to say that, by now, about half of our monthly energy bill is made up of taxation. My group is therefore very concerned about the affordability of energy for the ordinary hardworking Dutchman. By increasing the energy tax and storage of renewable energy over and over again, the monthly energy bill has become far too high for more and more families. Taxes are constantly being increased in order to subsidise renewable energy, because renewable energy is at least three times more expensive than ordinary energy. There is also good news, namely that renewable energy is becoming increasingly cheaper due to technological progress. But because most parties in this Chamber want to switch to renewable energy sources far too quickly, ordinary people who have no money to invest tens of thousands of euros in solar boilers, solar panels, insulation and heat pumps are at risk of being put down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	I hear Mr Madlener from the PVV Group saying that it is moving too fast. Does this mean that the PVV Group thinks it is a good development that people are being encouraged to further isolate their homes? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Of course, I have nothing against a well-funded home. I just think that people's costs should be monitored. I see all kinds of ambitious Members of Parliament who want us to get rid of oil and gas, but the reality is that this is not yet possible. I also have good news, and that is that solar energy is getting cheaper and cheaper. We say: wait until it is profitable and don't go to be a few years earlier, and we are trying to get all kinds of subsidies that make it priceless for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	The CDA shares with the PVV that we need to look closely at costs for ordinary residents. You can stimulate renewable energy and the isolation of homes by providing subsidies for them and thus helping people. Is that something the PVV would like to encourage when it is affordable enough for its residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Those subsidies are paid by those citizens because with all the energy storage and energy taxes, you are pushing up the energy bill. So, no, the PVV is not in favour of increasing the energy bill for ordinary Dutch people because you want to pump money around and give it to all kinds of unprofitable projects. I call it the North American wood cookie. That's what you and I pay in our energy bill. That is why this bill has become ever higher and for a lot of people it threatens to become priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	In fact, I agree with Mr Madlener to a very large extent. Indeed, there is a major problem with the energy bill for households. There is already an increasingly large group living in energy poverty. At the same time, in my own Groningen, I see major problems with the extraction of gas, fossil energy that literally causes people to run out of homes. Is the solution not much earlier, rather than waiting, as Mr Madlener proposes, to seek a fairer distribution of lusts and burdens? So it is not for people with a tight stock market to be billed, but for the polluter. Then we can also switch and make sure that we, for example in the case of Groningen where the pain is so deep through the gas extraction, can get rid of the gas. Does Mr Madlener agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	The Groningen gas problem is, of course, a completely different one, because we are talking about renewable energy. You know our position on that. Of course, we believe that much more money should be made available to the victims in Groningen. You're right about that, too. There are billions of dollars made in Groningen and that money has to go to people with damage. That is the position of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	Now you're contradicting yourself. I'm sorry because I just started complimenting you. A few sentences ago, you said we can't get rid of the gas. Now you say there's money to go to Groningen. Surely we can ensure that gas extraction in Groningen is reduced and at the same time switched to renewable energy by dividing the bill differently? EY calculated that and it shows that it's possible. Do you agree with me that we should take the bill away from the people who cannot afford it and should put it down with the people who can?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	Of course, I can't remove the energy bill from people either. What I do stand for is that we do not increase the tax on energy too high. In the meantime, almost half of our energy bill is made up of taxes. As far as Groningen is concerned, you're right. We have to deal with the people in Groningen much more generously. These debates have often been held in this Chamber. But the monthly energy bill is getting too high because taxes are being increased, taxes to pay all those precious hobbies like windmills and wood chips from America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	GroenLinks also sympathizes with the people who have been hit so hard by Hurricane Irma. I have a question for Mr Madlener. Does he recognise that climate change enhances extreme weather phenomena such as hurricanes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's quite a statement. As a matter of fact, yesterday I heard a weatherman say that the number of hurricanes is decreasing. The direct relationship you are suggesting, that this hurricane is the result of climate change, is absolutely impossible to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	That's another debate, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	It is also a completely different debate, and the President is right to do so. No, I can't put that relationship together like this, and I don't think you can either, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	In my opinion, it is relevant for a debate on the share of renewable energy to what extent you believe or not that climate change is taking place and that it affects extreme weather types. I didn't say "caused." But extreme weather is enhanced by climate change. That seems to be the case with these super-organs. It would be good for you to look into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	I can only say that the scientists who need to study this mainly disagree on this question. I know that your party likes to pretend that everything is the result of climate change, which is also caused by man. There are many questions to ask, and I am not going to join your party's scaremongering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. Oh, you weren't done. I'm sorry. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	I am only at the beginning of my speaking time, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's right. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	I was talking about subsidising all kinds of expensive energy, which threatens to make the energy bill priceless. The renewable energy storage levy will be almost five times higher than it is today without policy adjustment by 2020. Even worse is that all the billions of taxpayers' money that ordinary citizens pay is very low. For example, the share of renewable energy increased from 5.8% to 5.9%. It's almost negligible. What's worse, CO emissions are just rising, despite all the billions of taxpayers' money. Germany is, of course, much further in switching, and that is where the CO is rising. This is because they have turned off nuclear power stations in Germany, which means that the lignite plants have to be fully powered up to cope with this. We must really avoid these German situations. All the ambitious Members of Parliament that I see around me roaring with blinders that it has to be done even faster, I therefore recommend that we take a good look at the negative aspects of this uneconomic greening. For billions, we're going to buy wood chips from America, put them in polluting boats, sail here to burn it up in our power stations. That co-incineration of wood from North America is another typical example of what blind ambition can lead to, and the common man can pay those subsidies. It's kind of like the capital mistake of subsidising palm oil plantations to make biofuels out of them. When I was just elected to this Chamber in 2006, there were so many ambitious MPs who thought that was a great plan. Even then, the PVV warned about the consequences. We now know the consequences: huge forest cover in Indonesia to produce all that palm oil. I see shame on the jaws of the parties that supported it. I'm rounding up. Of course, the PVV is not against renewable energy, but we do set two conditions. It must be profitable and it must not cause any inconvenience. So no windmills that ruin our living environment, VVD! No billions of subsidies that will make our energy priceless. The PVV believes in the future, we believe in progress, in new techniques such as thorium, and not in wasteful subsidies and tax increases. We keep our heads down and refuse to follow dubious climate alarmists like Al Gore. In any case, we will refuse to let the ordinary hardworking Dutchman bleed for the expensive hobbies of overenthusiastic green MPs, who themselves have no trouble producing a lot of CO. 'Cause when I look in the parking garage a little bit what cars say, and when I look at all those nice flights of MPs, I think, you're gonna be ashamed. I will therefore table a motion in the second term to halt the unbridled growth of tax increases and taxes under the pretext of'sustainable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	I am thinking about the PVV's economic model for a number of things. Some statements are being made that are not quite in line with each other. Perhaps Mr Madlener can explain that. Because he is glad that the cost of renewable energy is going down very fast. At least that's what he said. That's a good thing. That is also because we are massively committed to a great deal of renewable energy. That's what we do with subsidy. Yeah, that's gonna cost you money, but then you see that price is gonna go down. Then we'll be at a time when we can stop subsidies. Sounds like a good plan to me. But Mr Madlener also says very quickly: we can also opt for thorium. Does Mr Madlener have any idea how he got the money for a thorium plant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	What I want to say here is that you and I see that the new techniques, solar energy, perhaps wind, but above all thorium, are very promising techniques that are becoming more and more profitable. All kinds of experts tell you and I that they will be profitable in perhaps ten years' time. We already see wind farms in Germany that are tendered without subsidies. We see that coming. It might take another five or ten years before we get there. Don't tell me you're gonna be collecting billions of taxpayers' money from the public to get what you want. Well, then we'd better wait until it's profitable, wouldn't we? Isn't that purely economical? You're not going to invest in a loss-making old technique in ten years' time when there's something wonderful and profitable on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	I find this very interesting. The world's gonna wait ten years, and then we're gonna have sustainable thorium? In the meantime, no one's gonna do anything. Can Mr Madlener explain who is working to make thorium profitable over the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Bosman thinks that if the Netherlands does not invest billions of grants in loss-making techniques, science stands still or something. Of course not! Mr Bosman, do you really think all the factories are going to stop? Is that what you really think? Do you really think that the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	Who pays for science? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	Look, this is the VVD thinking. He thinks that with all these billions of loss-making subsidies we are going to save the world. That's wrong. I also don't understand a party that thinks economically that it's going to invest in loss-making wind farms and loss-making techniques if they become profitable in ten years' time and we don't need any more subsidies at all. In ten years, we can tear down all those loss-making wind farms again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Madlener. This brings us to the end of the Chamber. The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	Madam President, I believe that attention has rightly been paid in this meeting of the Dutch Parliament to the wretched situation in Saint Martin after the worst hurricane ever, I understand. Fortunately, the damage on Saba and Saint-Eustatius seems to be much less, but on Saint-Maarten it is serious. We sympathize wholeheartedly with the inhabitants of the country. We will work with them to repair the damage and rebuild the country. Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Madlener use very big words to his colleagues, all of whom were hobbies in terms of renewable energy and driving large cars themselves. Renewable energy storage would be five times higher in 2020 than it is now and the energy bill would become priceless for ordinary Dutch people. Maybe it's good to put the facts next to his words. The facts are that in 2005 the average Dutch family in total, including VAT, paid €1.856 for gas and electricity. In 2020 it is now expected that €1.625 will be paid. So that's $230 less than 12 years ago. Now at the moment, in the year 2017, it is even lower than that €1.625. So there's no much higher bills at all and an account that's gonna be priceless. It is bullshit that Mr Madlener is proclaiming here in the Chamber. The facts point directly the other way. It would be very nice for a Member of Parliament to stick to the facts a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	I referred to taxes on energy. The Minister now appeals to me on the energy price. Of course, we are now faced with a relatively low price of oil and a low price of coal. But when the Minister talks about facts, can he be honest and now say what the tax on energy was in 2005 and what the tax on energy is now for ordinary Dutch families?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Madlener can turn away from what he has just said, but he has said that the energy bill has become priceless for the ordinary Dutchman. That is bullshit, because the energy bill for the ordinary Dutchman has only gotten lower. Over a period of 15 years, between 2005 and 2020, there is a reduction in the energy bill. Then I am not talking about inflation at all, because if you take that into account, it has become much lower. So it was just bullshit what he was saying there. And as far as the storage of renewable energy is concerned, of course, you need to build new infrastructure if you're going to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. Of course, this costs money, but you can also see that there is another situation in the fossil energy market, by building infrastructure for renewable energy. That's where you get price cuts. That's fine. The mix of energy for people, the mix of storage of renewable energy, VAT and what they have to pay for fossil energy has led to a reduction in the energy bill between 2005 and now. There is still a significant reduction in the energy bill in 2020 compared to 2005. Then don't come here with the story that the bill becomes priceless. Once again: big nonsense, Mr Madlener!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	I do not know from which world Minister Kamp comes, but 20% of Dutch people are already struggling to pay the energy bill. When I see that the share of taxes has been increased so that half of our energy bill already consists of pure taxation, I am concerned about that. I also see the ambitions of the cabinet, which has increased the energy tax in this way. The storage of renewable energy will increase fivefold in the coming years! Those are facts, Mr Kamp, you cannot ignore them! Then you shouldn't be here pretending I'm telling a stupid story. These are facts. Energy taxes have doubled in recent years. And 20% of people have trouble paying the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is true that Mr Madlener is telling a stupid story. Mr Madlener says that the energy bill will be priceless for ordinary people. In reality, the energy bill for ordinary people has fallen. That is the reality. Mr Madlener also talked about windmills and he talked about thorium. He said that in ten years' time thorium can be available and profitable. Big bullshit! It takes decades to develop that technique. Power stations will then also have to be built. It must first be shown whether this technique can be developed. If it can be developed, experience must be gained, first on a small scale, then on a larger scale. Then you might be able to build power stations for that, but if you pretend that in ten years' time power could be supplied by thorium plants, then that is the same as what I said: great nonsense, Mr Madlener!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	You may respond briefly, Mr Madlener, because your name is always mentioned. And then we move on to other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	Unfortunately, the Minister is twisting my words a bit and then calling me a liar. I regret that, because I said that taxes on energy have been increased. The Minister won't let go of that. We can see all that in our monthly account. I said that new techniques, solar panels are going to be profitable, thorium might be profitable too. I did not say that this could happen in ten years' time, but we all know that will happen. That is why it is sometimes wiser to wait, even with wind farms at sea. Maybe they won't need a grant in ten years. Then wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	That monthly bill, Madam President, is dropping. The monthly energy bill is dropping.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	The spokespersons are quite understandable about the growth of the share of renewable energy in 2016. They mention the percentage of 5.9, we now know that the percentage is 6 in the year 2016. 6%. At the beginning of this cabinet period it was just over 4%, so we went from 4% to 6%. As far as 2020 is concerned, we are achieving 14%, and for the year 2023, I have already seen estimates of more than what we want to achieve, namely 16%. Of course, we do not just get that thrown into our laps; a great deal has to be done for that. In recent years, we have done an awful lot for that and we are still doing that. My successor will also have to do a lot between now and 2020, and also for the period between now and the year 2023 in order to achieve those objectives. We can't get it thrown in the lap, but it's feasible. The latest estimates from the 2016 NEV indicate that a percentage of 14 renewable energy will not be achieved by 2020; we would remain somewhere between 12% and 13%. What we then did was to take a large number of measures, which I will be happy to go through all of them. On this basis, all the parties that have concluded the Energy Agreement have said: we are confident that we will achieve these objectives by 2020. Then we'll get the NEV 2017, and then we'll see what comes out. We will look at the effects of the measures we have taken and what we can expect between now and 2020. If we think we need to do something extra, then we will do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	The minister says that the share did not rise from 5.8% to 5.9%, but to 6.0%. But we're talking tithes of percent. Much is happening and there is a lot in the pipeline, we know that, but one of the points is that the fossil fuel is rising even faster in absolute figures. When I look at the CBS figures, I see 6 petajoule against 76. That's almost 13 times as much. I understand that the Minister is doing a lot and that his successor will also have to do a lot, but if we neglect energy saving, we are not going to make it. With only renewable energy projects, we will not survive if the fossil share continues to rise so much more. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	There is no question of neglecting energy savings. It is true that we in this country initially intended to save 1.1% of energy each year. In the meantime, we have increased that to 1.5%. Moreover, I have once again made separate agreements with the whole energy sector that it provides 10 petajoule extra energy savings. With the energy-intensive industry, I agreed that it would make a similar effort and save additional energy. There is therefore no question of neglecting energy saving. Look, it is also very unwise to negatively assess and remove the current performance in terms of renewable energy, thanks to many efforts of MPs, cabinet members, all those working on it in the field, people who put solar panels on their roofs, people who sit together in corporations. Look, where we are talking about 6% and 14% and 16%, it is not just about the production of electricity, it is about the total energy consumption of the whole of the Netherlands, that is, all the cars that drive around, the trains, the trucks, the ships. It is about industrial consumption. It's all the offices and houses that are heated, all together. By 2020, according to our schedule, we are at 14%. So it's going very fast and we're doing a lot for that. Regarding the year 2015/2016: you can get figures from it and say that it is not fast enough. Electricity production from wind at sea increased by 124% in that year. Solar electricity production has increased by 39%. We are going to set up large wind farms off the coast of Zeeland. The Danish Dong will build the first park there. That park will produce electricity by 2020. It was going to be 700 megawatts, but it's going to be 752 megawatts. Production is already under way before the summer of 2020. The second park, the park of Bluewind, the consortium around Shell, will also be realised so quickly that electricity will be produced in 2020. In the first half of this year, I supported more than 4,000 solar projects with the SDE+ scheme. So why is Mr Wassenberg trying to talk things down? That's totally unnecessary. Great performance is achieved by all stakeholders in terms of energy saving, renewable energy and CO reduction. I think we can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	I'm not trying to talk anybody down. I'm looking at the numbers. The Minister says that a lot of agreements have been made, including with industry and industry. That is very good, but agreements themselves do not help to reduce the share of fossil energy. Appointments don't help until they're respected. I've been looking at the CBS figures. This shows that the share of fossil fuel, in absolute figures, has increased 13 times as much as the share of renewable energy. That's what I'm worried about. It is fine that agreements have been made, but if we now see that the share of renewable energy in recent years has been lagging behind the increase in the share of fossil fuel, then we really have a problem. Making agreements alone does not help if they are then not respected and complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	I hope that Mr Wassenberg looks at figures differently from Mr Madlener. The figures show that very special things are being done. We had planned to achieve a 40% reduction in the cost of energy from wind at sea over a period of ten years. We have achieved 55% reduction in costs in three years. That breakthrough in terms of the price of wind energy at sea took place in the Netherlands. That's what we did. We believe that there is a possibility that the third large wind farm that is being built off the coast of the Netherlands will soon be able to run without subsidies. That's the third wind farm to be built. We're gonna build five in a five-year period. The planning is to build seven more in the next seven years, each of which will be bigger than the parks we're building right now. So we are making very concrete progress. I think it's very unwise to pretend there's something going on with fossil energy that we can't control. That's absolutely not right. The year 2016 was an economically good year. Economic growth was almost 3%. CO emissions have increased by 1%. This means that it was lower than economic growth. But if you compare the second quarter of 2016 with the second quarter of 2016, a 12-month period, in response to Mrs Mulder's question of 2017, you will see an economic growth of more than 3.3% and a reduction in CO emissions of 1%. Over a period of 12 months, there has been strong economic growth and a reduction in CO emissions. Here too, we have achieved a breakthrough. Once again, I do not want to suggest that everything is going to be okay, but we have made firm agreements in the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. I have come up with an Energy Agenda for the period up to 2050. The agreements we made, we carry out. The results are down to it. We will realize the shift from fossil energy to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	In fact, I would suggest that the Minister should continue to answer the questions, because he has not spoken for four minutes. For the rest, it was all interruptions. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	As far as Mr Wassenberg's input is concerned, I have dealt with the increase in the share of renewable energy and the expectations. I have also spoken about energy saving. Mr Wassenberg asks what tax measures we are going to take for gas-free housing. We are implementing the tax measure to shift the tax burden from electricity to gas. This improves the business case of heat projects and therefore also supports heat supply from residual heat and renewable heat. I am working intensively with municipalities and provinces to develop the whole heat case. We have been working on this for two years, with those parties, but also with the suppliers of products and with the energy companies, i.e. with all the companies involved in the supply of heat in one way or another. We believe that a large proportion of gas consumption in homes in the Netherlands can be replaced by heat consumption. We must do everything in our power to do so, but with the new Heat Act, which is in procedure at the Chamber and with the cooperation we organize in the Heat Table, as I have just discussed, we can take the necessary steps. We are very much involved in the municipalities that are taking initiatives on this issue and we very much support them in it. We also feel strongly supported by the provinces, which have great interest in this subject. Mr Wassenberg says that we should encourage municipalities to also implement more solar projects. There is really no need for me to urge municipalities to do that. Municipalities are very motivated to go ahead with this type of project. We know what's going on in the field of solar panels that place private individuals on rooftops. We know what growth there is in the cooperative projects carried out using the postcode rose scheme. I have just said that we committed to funding more than 4,000 solar energy projects in the first half of 2017. At that point there is a great movement going on and we will keep that movement going. Mr Wassenberg asked about the energy procurement policy of municipalities. I think that the municipalities are quite capable of setting their own course in this respect. You can think different about that. We produce a certain amount of green energy in the Netherlands. We can all focus on taking that particle and saying that we are doing very well, but on balance it doesn't help you very much. What you're getting on with is to make an increasing proportion of the energy we use sustainable. That's what you end up with. It is to be appreciated that municipalities still buy part of their energy green to show that they think it is important and to stimulate their inhabitants. It is renewable electricity produced somewhere in Europe. It can be from Norway, Germany or the Netherlands. More and more municipalities are working on this. In itself, it supports the process we're working on. Mr Van der Lee said that the 25% reduction in CO emissions, which, according to the Court's ruling in 2020, should be achieved, is out of the picture. That's a misunderstanding. Some time ago, it was estimated that a 23% CO2 reduction would be achieved by 2020 compared to 1990. We then assessed the impact on CO2 reduction, if we implement all the measures we are taking under the energy agreement, also as planned for 2020. The parties to the energy agreement also expect us to achieve it. Turns out we're going to be 25%. In view of the current calculations and the current information, we will thus achieve that 25% by the year 2020. Should it prove at any time that this is not the case, an alternative will appear. That alternative could be to shut down an additional coal plant. But, as Mr Bosman said, it is primarily the company itself that decides whether or not coal power stations are closed down. However, we could discuss this with a company. At least five have already been closed. The last two were closed on 1 July of this year. Thanks to the closure of these two coal plants this year you can see that a significant CO savings are being achieved again. If you look at the figures, you will also see that less electricity is imported from Germany. If that means that there is less lignite produced electricity from Germany and more gas produced electricity in the Netherlands, there may be a negative impact in the Netherlands on CO emissions, but CO is a European and a global problem and for the world as a whole that transition is a good thing. That is the point of Mr Van der Lee's 25%. It is therefore expected that we will achieve this 25% by the year 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	Before you go any further, Mr Van der Lee has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	The figures have a different character. There are figures that are actually nothing more than an assumption, an assumption. And there are figures that just show what actually happened in practice. Now there is a very important assumption in the Minister's calculations on the import of energy. He just mentioned it himself. The actual development of the CBS shows a very different figure. This could amount to some 7 million tonnes of additional CO emissions in the Netherlands, if that actual trend continues as it is already going on. I don't understand why we don't continue the conversation with ENGIE, who want to get rid of their coal power station, instead of waiting until we finally know that our assumption is wrong, because we already know that this assumption is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	We don't know the assumption is wrong. That 25% is a judge's ruling, which we have also appealed against, but I will leave that in the middle. We're working on the judge's verdict. Our current assessment is that without additional policies we would reach 23%. We know that we are fully engaged in implementing the energy agreement, and we do not have any reservations about it if you translate that into CO emissions, which are going to reach 25%. We have already closed two additional coal plants this year, bringing the total to five. I therefore have no reason at the moment to consult with ENGIE. It is as Mr Bosman said: if ENGIE wants to close a coal power station, they should not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	I regret that you tell me things that I already know, but do not answer what I ask. I would like to know whether you recognise that there is a major problem with regard to the assumption of imports and their actual development. There's a big hole in that. I want to know how you're gonna catch that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	I don't see that. In the second quarter of this year, we compared the second quarter of last year with a 12-month reduction in CO emissions in the Netherlands. So if you add up everything, the production of electricity, the emissions of cars, factories, heating and whatever you can think of, you're facing a 1% reduction in CO emissions. The estimate for 2020 without additional policies has already decreased by 23% compared to 1990. With the measures that have all been taken and will be implemented, we will reach 25% and thus comply with the ruling that the judge has made. That is the answer to what Mr Van der Lee has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	I am very sorry that this minister, who is a minister of the facts, continues to make assumptions and does not look at what is actually happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	Why is that an assumption? I compare the CBS data for the second quarter of 2017 with those for the second quarter of 2016. That's not an assumption from me, that's just CBS figures I get. The expectation of ECN and the Planning Office for the Environment is 23% without any additional policy. That is the best information we can have. We have also taken measures, which all the parties to the Energy Agreement say when implementing them, we will not only meet the renewable energy target for 2020 but also the CO target. That is the best possible assumption we can make on the basis of everything we have actually decided and put into effect. Mr Van der Lee also spoke about Eneco. Eneco is a company that, like DELTA, did not want to stick to what the legislator had determined, namely that in the Netherlands the infrastructure to bring gas and electricity into the homes of the people, factories and businesses should be in the hands of the government, but that energy production and energy distribution would allow the functioning of the market. So in the Netherlands we have separated between the infrastructure on the one hand to get it to the people's home, to the factories and to the offices, and on the other hand to the supply and distribution, which we leave to the market. It's legal. Eneco and DELTA have resisted this for years. This has cost a great deal of energy from the management of the companies. A lot of costs have been incurred for lawyers and all kinds of legal advice. It has also cost us a great deal of energy. We had to defend ourselves against the procedures that had been initiated. Eventually everything was lost by Eneco and DELTA. This means that the split, the separation, the infrastructure on the one hand, and the production and distribution on the other, has now been implemented. That means that Eneco turned off the infrastructure part. It's in a separate company now. The shareholders decide what to do with what's left of the company, namely production and distribution. Shareholders are the municipalities, which will make their trade-offs. Municipalities are very interested in renewable energy and in contributing to climate solutions. If the municipalities consider that in the spirit of the law they can sell those shares they now have, then I leave it entirely to the municipalities. I don't feel like getting involved. With all the rules we have made in the Netherlands for the market, to which the market has to comply, and the European rules for the market and the agreements we have made in the energy agreement, we have sufficiently regulated that all parties involved also contribute to achieving the objectives for renewable energy and CO reduction. This applies to the new owner of Nuon, Vattenfall, the new owner of Essent, RWE in Germany. I do not know who the new owner will be when the shares Eneco are sold, but they will all have to operate in the environment I have just described, where there are legal rules, where agreements have been made and where European rules apply; and I have no reason to interfere with the sale of the shares Eneco. By the way, it has already been democratically decided by the majority of shareholders. The majority of the shares are held by Dordrecht, The Hague and Rotterdam. That's where the councils have already decided to sell those shares. So that is actually an outdated discussion. Mr Van der Lee also spoke about the sustainability requirement for sawdust. Let me tell you what this is about. This is about biomass. We have a coalition agreement and an energy agreement. It states that, in line with what has also been agreed at European level, biomass can deliver renewable energy. It is precisely in accordance with the agreements made on this point that we have taken measures in the Netherlands to ensure that a significant proportion of the coal fuel in power plants is replaced by by by- and most of biomass. This therefore contributes to the achievement of our renewable energy objective. Our country has formulated the most far-reaching sustainability criteria in the world for biomass. That was agreed in 2015 by me, the energy companies and the nature and environmental organisations. I then incorporated them into the SDE+ sustainability criteria. We'll just hold on to that. Those sustainability criteria in the SDE+ also apply to sawdust. It is not allowed to use sawdust from illegal logging or protected forest areas. It is also not allowed to convert whole trees into sawdust. Criteria apply to the entire forest management chain where biomass is extracted. There are agreements on so-called carbon debt and on indirect land use. These are all parts of the whole of the commitments we have made for biomass and of the sustainability criteria we have established. Again, those are the most far-reaching of the world. Additional agreements have also been reached between nature and environmental organisations and energy companies. There is a difference of interpretation. I've been trying to help get rid of that difference. The Chairman of the Committee on Borging, Mr Nijpels, has also tried to do so. That didn't work. There seems to be a court case going on right now. We will look at what comes out of it, but that is a private agreement between the energy companies and the nature and environmental organisations. As long as it all remains within the legal rules that we have established, this is not a problem for me that I have to find a solution for. The legal rules and the agreements we have made on them are sufficient to ensure that we actually contribute to the transition to renewable energy through the addition and most of them of biomass. So I'm not going to freeze subsidies. That is not possible at all, because all renewable energy subsidies have been made up to the maximum of 25 petajoules. That means that freezing is no longer at all. I do not believe that any further questions from Mr Van der Lee have remained. Mrs Beckerman once again gave a negative account of the government's policy on renewable energy. She said that the Netherlands is lagging behind in achieving energy objectives. I hope that, after what I have said on this subject, she feels differently. She also talked about Eneco. I have already dealt with this in response to Mr Van der Lee's contribution. She said there's a movement going on around the world to make energy public again. I saw a report; I read an article in Trouw and there was a report on it. It said that cities would be in the process of regaining control of energy, and that this had to be done, because it did not have to be left to business. We do not need to get a grip on this in the Netherlands, because we already have it for a long time. We have control over the distribution networks and with excellent legal and European rules and excellent agreements we also have control over the functioning of the market in terms of production and distribution. The Netherlands therefore has the highest security of supply of gas and electricity in the world. We are also moving from fossil energy to renewable energy at a rapid pace in the Netherlands. So there's a city in Mexico trying to get a grip on the power supply, I'm fine with it. And for Jakarta to try, I think it's very good. I also like the fact that Hamburg has decided to buy the distribution network from a company. But I don't need to buy that from a company anymore, because all distribution networks in the Netherlands already belong to governments. And the rest we've all taken care of. I am happy that there are good developments in the world and I hope for the rest of the world that they will come to this point when we are now. I understand, of course, that in a highly developed country where 17 million people live close together, it is easier to regulate a number of things than in other parts of the world. I therefore do not use disqualifications to other countries. I am just saying that we have already achieved a good situation at the moment. Mrs Mulder asked about the figures on...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	Before you go any further, Mrs. Beckerman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	In this speech I waited tensely for my questions to be answered, but I did not hear them. So I'll come back to it after all. I literally asked the Minister: is it true that the Minister should agree to the sale of Eneco?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'm not aware that I should agree to the sale of Eneco. The decision on the sale of shares held by municipalities must be taken by municipalities. If I had to make a decision on this, I would wait for the advice I have. At the moment, however, I have the impression that, as far as I am concerned, there are no obstacles to the sale of those shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	We understand that Article 89 of the Electricity Act 1998 states that sales require the approval of the Minister. So I'm really curious about it. Maybe the Minister could come back to it in writing. I like that he celebrates what's happening in Hamburg. I agree that the network should be in public hands. On that point, I fully agree with the Minister. But much more is happening in Hamburg: the inhabitants have actually said that they want not only the network back, but also the whole energy supply. They had a number of reasons for that. Firstly, they wanted to stop the construction of a coal power plant very close to the city of Hamburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	The question is: does the Minister find it right what Hamburg does, that they not only buy back the network there, but that they also ensure that the energy supply remains public? Here we already have that, precisely because we want to prevent job losses, precisely because we want to prevent...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	... that there is new pollution and that we want to switch as soon as possible. So does the Minister not agree with me that it would be very wise not to sell it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	The interruptions must be really short and they must be questions. That doesn't just apply to you, Mrs. Beckerman. I am now using your interruption to send a message to other colleagues as well. So it has to be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	I can imagine something that the people in Hamburg do not want a new coal power station to be built near them. In the Netherlands we have closed five coal plants, two of which are still this year. Furthermore, the cabinet has decided not to build new coal power stations anymore. So as far as that's concerned, they're getting close to us in Hamburg. With regard to 'energy back with the citizens', we have the energy among the citizens. We have arranged for the networks to be in public hands, and for production and distribution we have a regulated market operation. This regulated market operation has led, among other things, to the figures by which I started my speech towards Mr Madlener: at a time when we are moving from fossil to renewable energy, the bill for an average household has so far fallen. We have achieved a good market functioning in the Netherlands. I therefore believe that there is nothing to be gained by the Dutch citizens in this respect if we change the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr President, I understand your call to keep the interruptions short, all right? It's also annoying, of course. But I also find it a bit annoying that my very direct questions are not answered either. I asked you, Minister, about that article in the Electricity Act and said that you may also return to it in writing. I also asked you to respond to the Correspondent's statement 'without Eneco, the new cabinet will never achieve the climate goals'. I also asked you to talk to the municipalities to see how we can ensure that there is a sustainable long-term vision, with or without Eneco. I have expressed my preference for the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	Isn't it ridiculous that I should talk to the municipalities about a long-term vision of renewable energy? Surely we have a government agreement in which very detailed, ambitious agreements were made on renewable energy in the year 2020 and in the year 2023? We have an energy agreement in which all this has been worked out and for which the support has been obtained from the whole field. And I have come up with the Energy Agenda for the period 2023 to 2050, which sets out what needs to be done in that period and how to do it. We are now working that out with all those involved. Isn't it crazy that I should go to the municipalities and ask them if they want to talk about a sustainable vision? That vision has been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mrs Beckerman also raised other points. I think it's a good thing I'm going to go into that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	Oh, sorry. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs. Beckerman referred to an article in the law. I am very happy to send the Chamber a written response to that point, but the Chamber should not expect any great surprises on my part. If I have to decide on the sale of those shares, then I will take that decision after I have had advice, but at the moment my basic position is that I have no objection to the sale of those shares. It has been decided by a majority of shareholders, and I respect that. To respond to Mrs Beckerman's last question: I do not understand why anyone can seriously think that we can meet our climate objectives only if Eneco's shares remain in the hands of the municipal authorities. I can't imagine anything about that. One can say that, someone can say that, but someone can say anything. As far as our climate objectives, our CO reduction, our renewable energy and our energy savings are concerned, we have set up a large network of agreements, rules, initiatives, incentives and subsidy schemes to achieve them. Eneco is a part of that whole. The Eneco company will also be part of that whole if there is a shareholder other than the municipalities. So I can answer Mrs Beckerman's question with no. I hope that this has made my answers to her clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	The picture is now outlined as if there is a ministerial obligation to transfer an energy company, but I would like to read out a piece of the article of law accompanying it: 'Our Minister may, on the basis of considerations of public security, security of supply or security of supply, prohibit or regulate the amendment referred to in paragraph 1'. That does not mean that the Minister is obliged to say anything about this, unless this article applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	Actually, you wanted to correct something, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	I do have a question for the Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	A very short one, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	The Minister says twice that a decision has already been taken in Rotterdam, The Hague and Dordrecht. That's not right. There is a intention of the aldermen concerned, but the Council still has to decide in October. So there is still an opportunity, and I hope the Minister will take advantage of it, to enter into discussions with the 53 municipalities that are shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	I understand that in the three municipalities I mentioned, Dordrecht, Rotterdam and The Hague, the political decision-making process has already taken place, leading to the sale of the shares. Whether that decision has been taken or not, there are a number of municipalities that have not yet taken a decision. I'll leave those decisions to them. I'm not going to interfere with that either. I don't think that's necessary, because I respect the shareholdership of those municipalities. I believe that the municipalities will take a sensible decision on shareholdership. So I'm not going to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	One more question about what you said earlier, resurrecting the history of the split and the position of Eneco in it. I have a bit of a feeling that there is some resentment in that. I would be very sorry if that would stand in your way of starting the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	That does not stand in my way at all, but I have to look back at the fact that we have been going on for years, up to the highest authority, because two companies, Eneco and DELTA, did not want to comply with the law. In the end, they have been unsuccessful. In the meantime, they have complied with the law. Everything that has been invested in energy by these companies and what has cost them has not been productive. That was my statement. Furthermore, I treat them as completely objective. I don't have anything against Eneco. I like the company. I also think that the company is performing well in terms of renewable energy, exemplary indeed. I think it could be an example for other companies. I also hope that this will continue to be the case. I have no reason to doubt that this will continue to be the case. I was with Mrs Mulder's questions. I looked at the figures, namely the +1% CO and the -1% CO. I have explained this in more detail. It also talked about increasing imports of electricity. I've already indicated that you can look at that in different ways. If you import electricity from abroad that is made in a less sustainable way in other countries than we produce electricity in the Netherlands, then there can indeed be some extra CO emissions in the Netherlands. But for Europe and the world, it is an improvement, and that is what it is all about when it comes to achieving the CO target. We need to achieve this goal on a global scale. We have large connections between the markets in Germany and the Netherlands for electricity. We're expanding it even further. The Netherlands is in the process of transitioning to renewable energy. Germany is at least as serious about this. I think that in the end the changes in imports and exports with Germany will only contribute to the smooth functioning of the market. The final result of our efforts will be a reduction in CO emissions. Mrs Mulder asked how we can ensure that renewable energy is subsidised cost-effectively. She indicated that we set up the SDE+ scheme for this purpose. She said it was set up under the previous cabinet and under my predecessor. That's right. We have continued and adapted this arrangement wherever it was necessary. We are applying this regulation with conviction. The scheme means that, as electricity is actually produced, a contribution to the additional costs is also made, in so far as those costs are incurred through the sustainability of production. But not everyone can just participate in a project in that scheme. A qualitative assessment of each project is first made. If you don't meet the quality requirement, you won't get a grant commitment. It then examines whether a project is below the maximum prices set on the basis of calculations made by the Plan Bureau for the Environment and, in particular, ECN. If you're too expensive, you're not eligible for a grant. What meets the requirements in terms of quality and within the limits are projects that we like and need. In the first half of this year, out of the 6 billion available, I was able to make 5.7 billion commitments. A number of projects have lost weight because they were qualitatively inadequate. They will be given the opportunity to meet the requirements in the second half of the year. They'll be back in the game. If they meet the requirements, they will again be eligible for subsidies. I need those projects to achieve the 2020 and 2023 targets. I am convinced that the system we have set up is the best possible system. Even if there were less competition at a certain point in time, given the qualitative requirements and the maximum grant contribution, there would still be a desired implementation of the subsidy scheme. Mr President, let me see if I left anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	I think you've dealt with a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	I have already dealt with what Mr Bosman has said at various times. I believe that this has given me the answers to the questions and the comments that have been and have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	The Minister and I agree, I think, on the fact that taxation on energy for ordinary households has increased enormously under this cabinet, under this minister. Energy taxation and storage of renewable energy have increased. In the coming years, they will increase even further. The Minister just accused me of saying something that was wrong and then said: an average household paid in 2005 the same for energy as now. Now I have just looked up the consumer price index of the CBS. That doesn't seem right. In 2005, Dutch households paid about 30% less for their energy bills than they do today. So despite the fact that energy prices have been offset by these taxes in recent years, what the Minister said is wrong. I would ask the Minister to put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	The amount paid by the average Dutch household for gas and electricity in 2005, including 21% VAT, was €1856. The amount it paid in 2016 was €1543. The amount it is expected to pay in 2020 is €1625. In 2005 there was no storage of renewable energy. In the year 2016, there was. Then the people of an average household paid €40 for that. In the year 2020 they will pay €162. But that has been incorporated into the amounts I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	I believe that there has been a sufficient exchange of views on this point. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party. Mr. Wassenberg, I don't know how many motions you have with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	I've got four, but I'm gonna take a fast train through it. They're short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to encourage municipalities to use roofs of municipal buildings to generate solar energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	That was in ten seconds! Now the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2016 only a minority of Dutch municipalities bought sustainable electricity, despite the agreement with the Empire to buy fully sustainable electricity from 2015 onwards;]] [[calls on the government to take stock of the energy purchasing policy of municipalities in 2017 and to appeal to the remaining municipalities to fail to comply with the agreement to purchase fully renewable energy from 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that ABP invested EUR 2 billion more in the fossil energy industry in 2016 than the year before;]] [[noting that this does not reflect the intention of the ABP to be a fully sustainable pension fund by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to make an urgent call for the ABP's investment portfolio to be sustainable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the SDE+ funds are spent on the production of biogas from animal manure;]] [[noting that manure production is a major waste of energy while fermentation itself produces very little energy;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the SDE+ scheme so that manure digesters are no longer eligible for subsidies and the funds released can be spent, inter alia, on (innovation in) wind energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-266]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-267]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President, and through you also my thanks to the Minister for his reply. I'll stick to filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Eneco is the largest producer of renewable energy in the Netherlands and thus plays an important role for our energy system;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, 86f Electricity Act does not provide a sufficient basis for the Minister to assess all consequences for Eneco's vital functions in the event of a takeover;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine whether vital sector features and public interests in energy companies require a legal protection structure to prevent a threat of unwanted takeover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all SDE+ criteria applicable to biomass directly extracted from the forest (so-called primary residues) should also apply to secondary residues (snails);]] [[Calls on the Government not to award SDE+ subsidies for biomass for the time being until secondary residue users can make it clear that they can meet these criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the share of renewable energy in the Netherlands is still far too low;]] [[noting that Eneco of the large energy companies is the most sustainable;]] [[Whereas the sale of Eneco could seriously complicate the achievement of climate targets;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultations with the municipalities concerned with the aim of achieving a long-term sustainable vision with Eneco, which is good for the various municipalities and for the Netherlands, and not to take irreversible steps until then,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. We just had a debate on what is true. One thing is certain: this cabinet is raising the tax on energy enormously, and that seems to continue in the coming years under unchanged policies. We think this is undesirable; we want to reduce the tax and not increase it as this Minister does. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increasing proportion of our energy account consists of taxes and charges;]] [[Whereas more and more people are struggling to pay their energy bills;]] [[calls on the incoming government not to increase energy taxes and charges for Dutch households and companies further in the coming cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31239-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for Mr Madlener's motion, but I shall begin. Mrs Beckerman spoke about an article in the Electricity Act, namely Article 89. This article no longer exists, my staff have informed me. It has been replaced by Article 86f, in this case. Article 86f deals with the control of a production plant to be reported to me. In the case of such a notification of a production plant, for reasons of public security, security of supply and security of supply, I can refuse the change that is taking place there. So it's not about selling shares by a municipality, Eneco shares, to anyone. It is a question of controlling a production plant. I have already said how I see it, but I intend to send a written response to the Chamber separately on this point, so that there can be no ambiguity. I come to the first motion, the Wassenberg motion c.s. in piece No. 265, which calls on the government to encourage the use of roofs of municipal buildings for the production of solar energy. There are plenty of incentive schemes. There is a great deal of consultation between governments to keep each other focused on solar and other forms of renewable energy generation. There is really no need for me to encourage the municipalities in this further, on the basis of a motion for a resolution. Moreover, I also think that this is an understatement of what is happening in the municipal councils. There they are just as interested in renewable energy as here in the Chamber. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 265. In the Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 266 is asked the government to take stock of the energy purchasing policy of municipalities in 2017 and to appeal to remaining municipalities to fail to comply with the agreement to purchase fully renewable energy from 2015. I will leave in the middle of what is being provided with factual information, namely that there would be an agreement to purchase completely renewable energy from 2015 onwards, but I am willing to take stock of the current situation and how it relates to any agreements made. If I may read the motion in that way, I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 266 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you. One clarification: it was about sustainable purchasing, not specifically about renewable energy, but of course it is part of sustainable purchasing. If the Minister agrees to this, I'll hold the motion for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you. I'll come to the motion in part No. 267. It calls on the government to make an urgent appeal to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	Before you go any further, here's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	In the motion in part No. 267 states that the government must make an urgent appeal to make ABP's investment portfolio more sustainable. I think that the ABP has a very well-considered investment portfolio and that it also takes into account desirable developments in the future, such as sustainability. The first challenge for the pension fund is, of course, to ensure that employees' pensions can remain at a good level. That's a big job already. I also know that ABP is already paying attention to the subject of sustainability. Within the way ABP is acting now, I really do not see any role for the government to come up with an urgent appeal. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 267. In the motion in part No. 268 by Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Beckerman, the government is invited to adapt the SDE+ scheme so that manure digesters are no longer eligible for subsidies. That is contrary to the policy of the cabinet. The government's policy is to encourage manure fermentation. We are also very happy that FrieslandCampina has come up with a plan with us to realize 1,000 manure fermentation plants. We believe that the agricultural sector in the Netherlands is a fact. Given this agricultural sector, we need to look at how we can control the environmental impact and influence it positively. We believe that the fog fermentation, which also produces renewable energy, is valuable in this respect. That's why I'm not prepared to do what's in that motion. The motion in part No. Two hundred and eighty-six, I'm not sure. In the motion in part No. 269 is asked by the Cabinet to examine whether vital sector features and public interests in energy companies require a legal protection structure to prevent a threat of unwanted takeover. It's obvious it's about Eneco. I do not believe that this takeover is undesirable. I believe that it is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves. I believe that the whole set of rules and agreements in force in our country is quite sufficient. That's why I'm not prepared to do what's in the motion. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Van der Lee c.s. asked the government not to pay any more subsidies for biomass. I can't do that. I have already made commitments for nearly 25 petajoules of biomass. That means I've made a commitment. Companies are now investing for that. At the moment when they supply electricity produced partly from biomass rather than only from coal, we consider it desirable. We have made subsidies for this. I want to keep those promises. I want to be a reliable government. Hence the motion in part No. 270 is also dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would like to ask a question about the motion in part No. 269. I understand your position, but we have debated in another context the protection of unwanted takeovers in other sectors, including vital sectors. Can the House expect that the debate on energy production will continue, for example in the light of the recent PBL report, which points to the vulnerability of our energy sector to, for example, digital attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	We can have a whole debate on digital attacks. That is a point which Mr Van der Lee is quite right to make. If we digitize our energy production and distribution, it has very great advantages. Electricity is produced in many different places nowadays and gas is supplied in more and more places. In order to be able to control that whole process, it is absolutely essential that we digitize the matter. But if you've digitized everything, then you're also vulnerable to hacking. These risks are very real; it is true what Mr Van der Lee says. That is why there is intensive discussion in the cabinet. There will be even more talk with the energy companies, if necessary, than is currently the case. This subject will need the attention that Mr Van der Lee is asking for in the near future, but it is not the case that my judgement on the motion will change. I'm gonna keep dissuading that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	But there may be a possibility that, for example, a Chinese state-owned company will buy Eneco, while we will work on a digitized network in the future. Isn't it important that the government has the ability to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	The government is investigating vulnerabilities in all sectors for which this is relevant. If there are vulnerabilities, then it is certainly a possibility for us to come up with rules. We did that for telecommunications. As far as energy is concerned, it is not the case that I am currently recognising current risks. The problem is more in the vulnerability of systems. If we believe that this vulnerability is a real threat, it is possible to establish rules to remove that threat. I do not therefore believe that it is necessary to depart from my opinion on the motion, which I do not recommend. The motion in part No. 271 by Mrs Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee ask the government to consult the municipalities, with the aim of achieving a long-term sustainable vision. I have just said that I am not going to consult with municipalities on a sustainable long-term vision that is already there. There's no point, of course. The motion in part No. 271, I'm guessing. I feel like I'm making the motion in part no. 272 not yet have. Can I still have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr Madlener is not allowed to walk to the Minister at all, but he is going to bring the motion now. He didn't hear all that, but he can't. It's kind of nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	Through you, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Madlener for presenting his motion asking the government not to increase energy taxes and taxes further. He also said a lot of other things about energy taxes. I have already made it clear that between 2005 and 2020, energy taxes and the ODE, for storage, amount to €0 to €162. In the year 2020, that will be 10% of the total energy bill that the average Dutch household will pay. At the moment, this is much lower, i.e. 3% to 4% of the energy bill that is being paid. So I think we do not have a problem here that needs to be solved. I have already explained why the storage of renewable energy is there and why it is very desirable. Maybe it's a good idea for me to take a look at the environment in three countries next to each other: the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. What are consumers now paying for electricity in the Netherlands, after everything we have done to simulate renewable energy? Currently, consumers in the Netherlands pay 20 cents per kWh, in Belgium they pay 24 cents per kWh and in Germany they pay 30 cents per kWh. So the picture is really very different from what Mr Madlener is trying to sketch. That's why I'm moving his motion in part No. 272, also having regard to the operative part,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	That concludes this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
