ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. I would remind the House that this bill has already been dealt with in plenary in three instalments. A resumption including a vote was scheduled for 1 April 2014. At the request of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the examination of the bill was held, so that the Chamber could also include the examination of bill 34108, Act approach fake constructions, in its consideration. Following further written consultations in committee since then, on 21 February last, it was decided to resume the discussion of this proposal in the fourth period. This fourth deadline is on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u2	Madam President. I realise, Minister, that this is the first debate following the elections. You should not feel particularly comfortable, and we all know, from any political party, that the electorate is always right. I was quoted this week from an interview I had given about the results of the elections. I do not know whether it will help you, but one of the things I have noticed is that a society without a strong social democracy is not sustainable in the long term. May you give that a little comfort! Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank our secretariat for the truly perfect dossier. The file gave me an insight into the very long legal history and also into the concerns of this Chamber in 2013 and 2014, concerns that, in the opinion of the CDA Group, are consistent. From this long history, I note that the spokesman on behalf of the CDA group, Mr Terpstra, but also Mr Backer of D66, the spokesperson of the OSF group, who also spoke on behalf of GroenLinks, and certainly also the spokesperson of the VVD, Mrs Kneppers, had fundamental problems with this proposal. That was also the reason for the postponement of the votes in 2014 requested by Minister Asscher, first by two weeks and then by autumn last year, when the Minister asked the Chamber to come to a new balance. At present, the WML applies when the work is carried out personally, it is not incidental and there is not already a contract of employment on the basis of other provisions, the so-called equivalent scheme. On the basis of the AMvB, the contractor who carries out work on remuneration for up to two others and not in the course of a business or occupation, is entitled to pay the minimum wage for at least three months and then for more than five hours a week. However, if the work is incidental, the WML does not apply. The proposal that we are discussing today, and which has not been amended since its submission in 2013, aims to remove the criteria of "personal performance," "coherence" and "term of employment relationship." Have I understood correctly that, as far as the incidentals are concerned, two principals are now assumed to be independent and that, if there are more, they are assumed to be independent? The noble purpose of this law is to protect the position of people with a very precarious contract of assignment. We as the CDA Group wholeheartedly support that principle. The CDA Group believes that the ZPP issue deserves full attention. This certainly applies to the bottom, where people are most at risk. In the first written submission on 26 January, the CDA Group waived the questioning. After all, it would be a small group that deserves protection. We found the Minister's response on 17 February on the enforcement of this bill of law, which is still trying to bring justice, staggering. Where the submission of the law in the explanatory memorandum for enforcement still mentions and praises the VAR, which is reviewed and also provides certainty as to whether there is an ovo or a contract of employment, the Minister, in his reply, is rather lightly ignoring the new reality. The Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations has been put on hold because there is a need to review the criteria governing the existence of the employment contract. The DBA test is therefore no longer there but, according to the Minister, achieving the goal is relevant. The CDA Group believes that, with only good intentions by the legislator and without regard to the consequences and legal certainty for contractors and contractors, the taking of an advance and thus the anticipation of the fundamental revision of the BW could and should have been better thought out. The answers given by the Minister on 15 February to the further written questions, in which Mr Rinnooy Kan took the lead, did not bring us any more comfort as to the consequences of this bill. I know that Mr Rinnooy Kan is going into this in detail. On the question of whether the limitation of this bill to those who carry out work on the basis of a contract of employment does not exclude any other person who carries out work on a basis other than a contract of employment, we will initially receive an evasive answer. As an example, this AMvB is in conjunction with the DBA Act. Then I read: yes, it is, but when it comes to taking up work, for example, these people do not need protection, because they have a good position and are themselves well able to negotiate assignment and price. Moreover, it is often self-employed who were already excluded. I cannot reconcile those remarks made by the Minister, even though they are contrary to the letter, and here comes the file of 21 February 2014 to our Chamber, in which the government states that research shows that more than 20 000 workers were employed in the construction sector on the basis of an ovo and that of them more than 80% were engaged in low-skilled and performing work. Further on, the Minister stated in his reply that it is possible, now that the group outside the adoption and transport agreements is excluded, to come up with an AMvB. I understand the Minister when I quote him, don't I? He writes: the workforce employed on the basis of other contracts against remuneration is now (without further regulation) not covered by the scope of the WML. Not at all! We solve one problem, but we can deal with the problems that arise for other ovo target groups under this law later. The CDA Group recognizes the good intentions of this minister. We are also prepared to cooperate in this. We are sympathetic to that. But we are absolutely wondering whether this law will solve the problems that we want to overcome, namely the abuse of which contractors can be the victims, and whether the law will not cause more problems in the short term than it will solve. We help a small group, but we create problems for a larger group. Good clients we get into trouble because the burden of proof about independence or... another obligation to notify is not unambiguous. I would like answers to these questions. There is another question I have yet to ask here. The Minister states that the Inspection SZW will take over enforcement. I wonder if the inspection is sufficiently detailed. As a CDA group, we determine our voting behaviour in response to the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. This debate with Minister Asscher is due for his fourth term. It was recently postponed by the Minister again with reference to the election campaigns that were under way at that time. I would have liked to congratulate him today for a better result than he did and his party was awarded, but it was not meant to be. At the moment there is a serious discussion of his proposal, and of course my group would like to contribute to that. Minister Asscher's bill aims to ensure that anyone who is not employed on the labour market or on the basis of an occupation is rewarded at least at minimum wage level. That is an objective which my group is very much in favour of. Those who are heavily dependent on a single task are already having a hard enough time. An effective minimum wage threshold is an essential part of a civilised labour market; it is as simple as that. It is precisely from the sympathy of the D66 Group for the already so many plagued group ofzzp'ers that it is desirable to secure that minimum level where necessary and possibly also for them. As such, only an assessment of the legislative proposal remains of criteria such as quality, feasibility and consistency. I am sorry to say that this assessment is not directly positive on each of these three criteria. On behalf of the D66 Group, I asked the Minister's attention in writing earlier. It is a good habit to thank him on this occasion for his reaction. I am happy to do so, but add that our concerns are still far from being resolved by that reaction. First of all, I come to the quality of the proposal. The D66 Group previously wondered why protection at minimum wage level was offered in this proposal only to those working on the basis of a contract of employment, in order, for example, to exclude contracts of acceptance or transport agreements as a basis, while there is every reason to assume that this protection would be more than welcome in the construction, in the post, meal and parcel delivery, in the transport and, who knows, elsewhere. In his response, the Minister pointed out that categories other than the contract of commission with AMvB could still be brought into the functioning of the law if required. I would urge the Minister not to wait until actual abuses are reported, because then it is too late for a number of unfortunate victims. Prevention is better than cure, and here it could be very easy. If the Minister is prepared to make this additional effort, then the temptation is irresistible to give him a suggestion that would, on the one hand, greatly simplify the present proposal and, on the other hand, make it final and maintain it in the future. If I understand the Minister's written response correctly, as far as he is concerned, the intended protection of the minimum wage could easily be extended to anyone who, on the basis of an agreement, is paid for the work carried out, point. Then there is no further specification and no further conditions. It can't be any simpler. Why don't we do that after all? Would the Minister be prepared to take care of this simplification? It would bring a nice round to his legislative legacy. Surely we wouldn't want a discussion on the exact nature of the contract to produce a new route for the evasion of the WML? Secondly, I come to the feasibility of this proposal, which is an important criterion for the First Chamber. In this context, the D66 Group asked the Minister once again to indicate in writing how the client could prove to the inspecting authority that a contractor is indeed active in the field of profession or business, so that the legislation is not intended for him. The Minister's answer does not satisfy the group at all. In fact, it seems to confirm that after the end of the VAR-wuo, which existed when this bill was tabled, there is no such thing as a final method. Surely the Minister cannot seriously argue that it could be sufficient as a person concerned, and now I quote him 'presenting himself externally as an independent entrepreneur'? It would be a good thing for the Minister if he really recognized this problem and proposed a solution to it. I'm asking him to do that. Surely it cannot be the same as VNO-NCW fears by letter that this bill will leave the client with an unfeasible job? Finally, I come to consistency. In this context, the D66 Group previously called for attention to be paid to an AMvB which came into force simultaneously with the much criticised DBA Act and which allows the clients and contractors to establish when entering into their contract that they wish to exclude the fictitious employment of homeworkers or similar workers. The irony is that, in practice, this unfortunate AMvB often deprives the category of contractors which the minister would like to protect by means of the present proposal, of the already modest guarantee that they were offered by the fictitious employment. This group will often not be able to refuse the contested contract clause from a weak negotiating position, if that technically complicated clause would already be recognized by them as undermining their collateral. In the past, some of them would undoubtedly have been successfully pressured by their clients to submit a VAR-wuo. But you can't do that anymore, and you don't have to do it anymore. This recent AMvB makes it even easier for the clients than it already was to obtain all the cost benefits of the employment relationship, thanks to the cabinet. It is the D66 Group without a riddle how this successful attack on the legal certainty of a number of relatively powerless self-employed people can be justified, as the Minister states in his written response, by a reference to the difficult task for the Tax Administration to determine whether or not someone is an entrepreneur, a task which I have just noted that the Minister does not see fit to entrust to a considerably less well-equipped contractor. And there's an argument to that. Self-employed entrepreneurship is just as much a statutory exception to a number of other fictitious employments as the two mentioned here, for example in the adoption, but they are not applicable again. Why this strange and unjust exception? Fortunately, at the 11th hour, this cabinet recognised the need for a rethink on the foundations of labour law, but it only makes the existing baroque rule more messy. I cannot imagine, knowing the views of the Minister and his party, that the loss of protection caused by this AMvB for vulnerable contractors is an effect he intends to achieve. There is every reason for my group to find a painful inconsistency with the somewhat honourable aim of the legislative proposal he has put forward. I urge the Minister to recognise this inconsistency and address it appropriately. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I do not rule out the fact that I would like to table a motion in response to the Minister's replies. I shall therefore ask you to grant me a fifth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u4	Is that motion here already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u5	No, I'll let that depend on the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u6	A fifth term... I don't know when we last had it. It's pretty special. But you're gonna let it hang in the air for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u7	I'm sorry; I have no choice. I want to give the Minister a chance to react first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u8	I understand. Thank you for your contribution, anyway, and then it becomes a cliffhanger. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. The labour market of the twenty-first century is characterised by strong dynamism and an ageing retirement date. People will work longer and change jobs more often. This calls for a solid foundation of strong and solid employment relationships, in which employers and employees are willing to invest in each other. Work comes first for the PvdA. Whether you are higher or lower educated, young or old, disabled or non-Western: everyone deserves a fair chance of good work and a fair income. Work is a key to security of life, appreciation and respect, and to participation in society. We choose equal pay for equal work and fight against repression, exploitation and competition on working conditions. We want every worker to have an income to live on. My group supports the government's vigorous approach to exploitation, unfair competition and labour market displacement. We welcome the government's commitment to enforcement, information and international agreements. We welcome the increase in the number of labour inspectors, the strengthening of the approach of malicious employment agencies and closer cooperation between inspection and sectors. We also supported the Fake Constructions Act. In fact, it was adopted unanimously in this Chamber. This law contains a number of concrete measures to combat abuses. Moreover, this law introduces an extensive chain liability. This makes it easier for complex constructions, often involving a chain of companies, to attract more links than just the direct employer. Finally, companies that consciously commit the error are made known by name and by name. Together with the legislative proposal before us, the Wet approach is part of a broader package to counter bogus constructions. Today we are discussing the Law on minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance in fourth term and possibly even in fifth term. The purpose of this law is to ensure that workers receive a socially acceptable consideration for the employment completed and to ensure that they have a minimum standard of living. With the government, the PvdA Group considers it unacceptable for the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act to be bypassed by those who work under similar conditions on the basis of a contract of employment. And with the government, my group considers it important to strengthen the position of vulnerable contractors by tackling improper use of the contract of contract. The legislative proposal before us represents an important step in this direction. We have had ample opportunity to discuss with the government our questions on the legislative proposal, in three written rounds of substance and, as has been said, three plenary deadlines. We had questions about the relationship with other legislation, about the group covered by the bill, about the numbers involved, about the financial resources needed, about the enforcement of the bill and about additional possibilities. In his oral response and written response, the Minister took our concerns into account convincingly. That is why my group is in favour of this proposal. At the same time, major labour market challenges remain. Work now gives less security than it used to. It now seems normal for employees to be interchangeable. The number of flex workers who are unwelcomely in an uncertain situation is increasing rapidly. It now accounts for more than 25% of the working population. Manyzzp'ers work with entrepreneurial spirit on their own business and that's nice. But others are forced to bezzp'er and have to compete at too low prices without guarantees for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u10	I have just drawn attention to the fact that, in my opinion, a large group of workers is being deprived of the security that is being offered to them at the moment, because this bill is limited to those covered by a contract of employment. Does Mrs Sent recognise that it is, but is she able to live with it very well? Or does she deny that this analysis is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u11	The problems of dependency, vulnerability and low pay focus on the contract of contract at the bottom of the labour market. That is why we believe it is important that the legislative proposal pays particular attention to this issue. We also note that, following the adoption of the legislative proposal, it is possible to bring agreements other than the ovo into the scope of the WML under or under AMvB. We also think that this is a good opening-up to the future. Uncertainty eats up people and also eats up society as a whole. Manyzzp'ers are unable to put money aside for their pension or any disability. The consequences remain invisible, but in the long term they are enormous and disruptive because the costs for the welfare state will then have to be borne by an ever smaller group. What's good is the PvdA wants to keep. The fact that the labour market is more dynamic than before is positive, but the shadow sides want to fight the PvdA. I therefore conclude by asking the Minister what labour market challenges he considers most urgent and what he intends to give to his successor in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The bill that provides for the Law to apply minimum wage to specified contract contracts has a long history. Earlier speakers said that. What seemed to be a seemingly small technical change to protect people in a potentially vulnerable position in the labour market from working under the minimum wage has led to a debate that is now in its fifth year and may soon be due to its fifth term. Let me put it first: my group clearly shares the objective of this law. People who work have the right to a decent reward. Where seemingly self-employed people are in a dependency position and do not or hardly have any room to negotiate their rate, there must be a lower limit that we do not fall through. And if there are loopholes in the law to avoid paying the minimum wage and the holiday allowance, then these should be closed. My group supports that, but there are still the necessary questions about the legislative proposal that is now before us. We realize that the sealing of meshes cannot be arranged at once. There are simply too many types of contracts that can be concluded between a client and a contractor. Contract contracts, contracts of contract, fictitious employment contracts. We have not really set up our labour legislation simply, regardless of the agreements in the grey area, such as the side job or the definition of what an ovo is: an agreement to work for a fee, unless you make something, save something, spend something or transport something. In the previous debates in both the Lower House and here and in the correspondences with the Minister, therefore, a variety of cases have been passed, with always the underlying question as to whether this is an ovo in that particular case or not and whether this law is applicable. Of course, the postman and the builder will come along, but also the newspaper deliverer, the pizza courier, the professor who writes a column and the nanny. To my personal regret, the nanny was not mentioned, but that aside. Part of that case law has been clearly explained by the cabinet. However, since social legislation is still in progress and the context is constantly changing, we ask the Minister once again to state clearly what the scope of the law is in the current situation and which groups of contractors can derive rights from it. We are asking for this in particular because from several sides my group has also been reminded of the consequences of the now adopted DBA Act and the related AMvB issued in May 2015. This AMvB makes it relatively easy for clients to terminate contractual fictitious employment contracts. Does the Minister see an unintended change in the scope of this law due to this changing context? Can he imagine, for example, that a mailman who is busy jumping for work does not fully understand what he is signing with the following passage from a model agreement of the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr Lintmeijer spoke about professors. In my opinion, however, we are now talking about a legislative proposal which covers up to about €9 per hour, the minimum wage for an adult. I wonder whether we should let the discussion go so far as to involve the whole of the VAR issue at the moment. Panteia's report states that there are 155,000 cases. That is the report of 27 December 2013. This has now been reduced by 50,000 to 12,400 possible cases. However, in my opinion, we should always keep an eye on this limit of up to €9.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u14	Sure. I couldn't agree more. However, I was merely quoting from the documents I went through the last week surrounding this bill. I quoted a number of examples, casuistic, that have come along in all the treatments that have been there. It always asked whether or not things fit. I didn't make up that professor with the column myself. That's one of the cases. I think I should say casus, because that's also the plural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u15	It is casús, with a dash on the u. Casús.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u16	I am extremely pleased with this chairman, as you can see. I merely mentioned it to show how much confusion has been in the debate so far. I very much agree with Mr Van de Ven that if we can limit it to that lower financial threshold, we will at least make it a little easier. In fact, I would almost like to make an invitation to all the political groups that are in the process of forming the cabinet. Is this not one of the reasons why we should really look at our labour law for once and see whether we should not regulate the definitions of labour and the way in which we place it in contracts much more clearly? Because we're knitting hugely and the meshes on a patch blanket that doesn't get any nicer. This was a long answer to a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u17	Finally, Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u18	I can be pretty short. Look at the numbers involved, namely 12,400 at the ovo. We are talking about a number ofzzp'ers of over 1 million and some even say 1.4 million. In the opinion of the VVD, thiszzp issue deserves a genuine attention, but there is also a commitment to look at labour law. So I think we are in agreement on what today's discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u19	I'm sure we'll find each other on that. Whether we come to different insights in the elaboration of thatzzp discussion will be shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr Van de Ven is not one of the speakers in this debate. However, now that he is interfering in the discussion, I feel free to respond to his words. I would like to say that the number of 12,400, which he is now presenting, certainly does not represent the full scope of this law. That is precisely why I myself am concerned about what this law is and above all is not going to achieve. After all, he can count all those who were originally protected and lose protection by this law. If we're gonna do that for a while, I'm gonna have to see that we're gonna end up positive. I therefore feel, with all due respect, that the quantitative analysis is lacking in persuasion and hence also in the power of expression for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u21	I think I can respond to that for a while. In his letter of 30 January 2017, Mr Asscher also referred to the possibility that, through the Labour Foundation, a solution could be found in individual cases for ovo's which would now be covered by the new legislation. This is the result of a coherent legislative proposal which was adopted last year in the House of Representatives and which was accepted here on 24 January, if I recall correctly. That bill contains the Van 't Wout amendment. It provides for a system to ensure that, where it is impossible to apply that minimum wage in this way, that ovo can still be covered by the ovo scheme as it exists to date. That amendment is therefore part of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u22	I assume that this response was directed at Mr Rinnooy Kan. The thread of my argument was that even in this law and in relation to the law DBA and that AMvB, it is not so easy for ordinary people who are in the process of concluding a contract at all to understand what they are actually signing. As an example, I read a small quote from one of the model agreements of the Tax Administration that people are presented with. They just go to a mail delivery guy who might get under that ovo. It states: "that the parties choose to designate, where appropriate, the fictitious employment of domestic workers or persons treated as such as those referred to in Articles 2b and 2c of the 1965 Implementing Decision, and Articles 1 and 5 of the Decision, cases in which employment relationship is regarded as employment (Decision of 24 December 1986, Stb. For this purpose, this Agreement shall be drawn up and signed before payment takes place.' I wonder in my mind: who understands this type of model agreement? They just come from our own IRS? That is also my concern with regard to the application and enforcement of this law. Do we have any idea what we are trying to achieve, namely that the bottom of the contract closers actually find the protection there is? I ask the Minister whether he shares this concern from me and several groups and whether he shares the view that we should do something more to really close this loophole. Looks like we're cutting another one open now. In the debates and the written consultation with the cabinet, and in the light of the very different case-law that can be devised, enforcement has also been the subject of this legislative proposal on several occasions. I've been referring to that for a while. I ask the Minister what steps the cabinet has taken to ensure that it is sufficiently enforced. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is asking for this because it would be extremely regrettable if, after the DBA Act, we were to adopt a new law against all warnings, which the cabinet would have to observe that the lack of clarity between the client and the contractor would only increase, that clients would only pass through the place and that enforcement would be suspended. For us, the final judgment on this law is also very closely linked to the Minister's response. I say again that we very much support the objectives of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. We are already discussing this amendment to the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act in this Chamber in the fourth term. So far, I agree with the previous speakers. The purpose of this bill is to pay at least the minimum hourly wage for all people who work with a contract of employment, even in the case of small jobs. The aim is to prevent underpayment and unfair competition. Against this background, it is a pity that people who are regarded as entrepreneurs in the tax sense are not covered by this law. As a result, it remains possible to hire self-employed persons for a price below the minimum wage level. You would say that anyone who is in favour of a statutory minimum wage should also be in favour of this bill. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Some parties are constantly raising new, sometimes well-liked concerns. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that any comments that can be made on this bill, however justified, should not lead to the failure of this proposal. But perhaps additional measures are needed. The law provides that the Minister may, by means of a General Measure of Management, also bring other forms of contract which are not regular contracts of employment but which are, in fact, labour against remuneration under the Law minimum wage. For example, it is a contract of acceptance or a contract of carriage. You don't think it's possible, but legally there are all these similarities. Especially the latter, the contract of transport, seems to be an alternative to malicious clients, who will no longer be able to exploit mail delivery and couriers through a contract of engagement. That is why I ask the Minister why he does not declare the minimum wage law equal, now, also applicable to such agreements. In this respect, I agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan's plea. I conclude by expressing the hope that after today's debate, after more than three years of discussion in this Chamber, we will finally be able to decide on this bill. That is in the interests of thousands, perhaps ten thousand, of people who work on a contract of employment and who are still paid below the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. Rarely had a bill with so many horns and bumps to the finish line to be pushed. Following agreement in the House of Representatives in October 2013, the proposal met with fundamental objections in the House of Representatives on 18 February 2014, after which the Minister chose eggs for his money and asked for a postponement of the vote. The treatment will resume today. In the meantime we are more than three years further. The big question is therefore whether something really has changed and whether time has not overtaken the proposal. Is the argument put forward convincing this time or does the Chamber give a better answer: coalition colleague VVD, this outgoing minister at the end of the day still a small success? It should be clear that much has changed in the labour market, and certainly not for the better. The flexibility of the labour market has gone through completely with the Work and Security Act. All negative consequences have been completely ignored in the past reign. Even the interdepartmental policy research Self-employed people without staff in April 2015 could not change this. Basically, the report found that the classification of employee/self-employed did not correspond to reality. Captured in a cabinet discussion, this minister came no further than to find it necessary to "continue this social and political discussion." In other words, move it forward. How do you formulate a political stagnation in a dossier that deserves a vigorous approach? An integral, broad review was omitted. It should not be surprising that some sad conclusions are drawn in the recent report of the WRR under the telling title. The fact is that the Netherlands is stuck in flex and is in a negative spiral, where there is hardly any more to come out of. The fact is that 530,000 permanent jobs have disappeared in a race to the bottom since 2003 and that the number of flex workers has risen to astronomical numbers even within Europe, to over 3 million, includingzzp'ers. And thezzp problem is huge, as we know by now. I should like to say that the continuing lag with the proposal before us is in stark contrast to the eminent need to look at the dislocated labour market in its entirety. It is only this little bill that is being dealt with that ignores any urgency for the greater good. It would be more obvious to consider the ovo problems and the proposed solution in the wider question of fundamental rethinking of the current labour market problems. Why isn't that a choice? Why, if necessary, give so much priority to the resumption of this almost dated proposal while the elephant is being skipped in the room? If we look again briefly at the legislative proposal before us, it is quite clear in general terms that no one is in favour of circumventing the minimum wage through bogus structures and not protecting vulnerable groups. That's not up for discussion. However, the question remains whether the alleged abuses in working conditions in the postal sector provide sufficient basis for this proposal. The justification for this is not very strong, as the Council of State pointed out at the time. And if there are abuses in that sector, the next question is whether this bill is really a successful attempt to counter the improper use of the contract of assignment (ovo) by broadening the scope of the WML. It is not possible to opt for such a broadening if adequate supervision is lacking or if there is more reason for it to be stepped up. By simply bringing all ovo's, unless in the exercise of a profession or a business, within the scope of the WML by deleting the applicable criteria, an employment relationship is achieved. That is a simple, coarse way of preventing improper use and circumvention. The disadvantage of this shot with hail is that it brings all ovo-forms without any distinction under the WML. It can't be any easier. A direct problem is, among other things, that all previously excluded so-called "additional work" can now suddenly fall within the scope of the law. Illustrative, as has already been mentioned, are in the category of "small business" the caring host parents, the folding grandpas, they are indeed there as well as the car-washing nephews, which are now under the reach of the law. The annex to the SZW letter of 18 March 2014 is only very brief and tentative. This fertilizer should replace, for ease of reference, what should prevent regular surveillance, i.e. improper use of the ovo. Overregulation once again leads to new grey areas, with once again problematic enforcement. That's a weakness in the chain. This has recently been illustrated in the 2017 Annual Plan of the Inspection SZW, which clearly highlights the limitations in supervision and enforcement. Chosen is for the fastest and easiest way to define what is called "the WML as the group whose employment relationship can be socially assimilated to an employment relationship." Evident disadvantage is not so much that the WML lays an income base in the labour market as that it rather creates a barrier to work with low productivity. Loss of employment and call for assistance are not unimaginable. For example, displacement of older delivery workers is lurking. It is also complicated that an ovo piecework is paid in view of the ovo character of the result obligation and measurable performance. Conversion to an hourly wage corresponding to the statutory minimum wage is an administrative crime in itself, accompanied by impossible questions. How the inspection should operate in this area is already an issue in itself. This will be all the more true if the inspection is to assess the criteria for the existence of a contract of employment and whether work is carried out in an occupation or a business, namely as a self-employed person for tax purposes. In this situation, the VAR criteria, which have been replaced by the DBA Act, can no longer be taken back into account, which in turn has been put "on hold" until 2018. There's a threat of administrative chaos. How can a client still know, let alone demonstrate, that there is activity in the field of profession or business and therefore does not apply a statutory minimum wage? Apparently, we can't make it any easier, but unnecessarily complicated. There is no clear review framework for entrepreneurship. As mentioned, the recent AMvB provides incomplete protection or.q. loss of protection and does not seem consistent enough. In short: it is still not clear why the means of uninhibited extension of the scope of the WML has been chosen. The question is whether the alleged single problem in the postal sector provides sufficient ground for this. The single motivation, based on the argument that it is a group that has a vulnerable position with unacceptable industrial relations, is too qualitative and does not convince, however sympathetic the objective may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u25	I find it a little difficult to break into this litany of misery. Is Mr Kok going in the direction of the following statement: the problem is so great that it does not make much sense to solve something for a small group? Is he going to vote against an improvement in the remuneration of some 10,000 people, because it is not yet in order? If so, is Mr Kok prepared to go with me to those mailmen to say: this is now the PVV, this is the party you even remember a minimum hourly wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u26	No. I think there should be proper legislation. This has already been demonstrated by the contribution of many others. This is, as I have said, a very rude way of dealing with the problem. The problem is not clearly outlined and does not appear quantitatively enough. It is not enough to base this bill on that. In the meantime, it ignores the problem we have experienced for three years, which is much greater and which transcends the whole, namely the flexibility of the labour market. I think it would be much better to park this problem and that is also at the heart of the story and to accommodate it in the larger whole of the discussion that is going to come in the period after this cabinet. That's the spirit of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u27	So Mr Kok confirms that the people who could benefit from this, we do not know exactly how many thousands of people we are talking about, but on the basis of the figures that have been provided, we are talking about some 10,000 people, but we need to wait for further discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u28	I think a good piece of work will help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u29	They're already in the best interest of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u30	It has already been shown that it will apply to a limited target group, regardless of the size of the target group. It is a very complex and diverse target group. It is too simple to say: this is delimited. The postal sector is so diffuse, has so many regulations and is so complex that you cannot give a clear response to them. Mr Köhler obviously wants that, but I cannot offer him that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u31	Finally, Mr Köhler, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr Kok will respond. He says: this is all too limited for me and not clear enough for me, so let that group go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u33	No. I would like a reply from the Minister, and I will conclude with that. For now, I don't see it. I shall continue with my speech, Mr President. The means now used raises more questions and problems than it solves a problem that needs to be addressed. A dummy solution does not bring the desired better protection closer. Moreover, the bill seems to have been overtaken at a time when rethinking labour market failures is more necessary than ever and regulation is still lacking. The present proposal should be included in this framework rather than an extended, separate examination. The PVV group would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Kok. Will the Minister be able to respond immediately? The answer is no. The minister says he needs about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u35	I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the various Members for their kind words to me and my party. That's very much appreciated. I am pleased that today we are returning to the discussion of the proposal to make the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act applicable to the contract of assignment, in so far as it is not entered into by way of profession or business. It has already been mentioned: it has been three years since we talked about this. Most groups already shared the purpose of the legislative proposal at the time, but there were reservations about the drafting. In this context, it was noted that the Act's approach to bogus constructions, which included a number of changes to the WML, had already been announced, but had not yet been submitted. A number of political groups indicated that they wanted to be able to assess these legislative proposals in conjunction with each other. In the meantime, this bill has not only been accepted, but has also entered into force. It has also recently accepted the revision of the WML in connection with the adjustment of youth wages, piecework and overtime. That was in February. There's only this bill left. I very much hope that we can now complete the examination of the bill. What's it about? Each employee is entitled to the statutory minimum wage. Wage is the consideration received by the employee for his work. It is considered socially acceptable as a minimum wage to be paid. This right should also apply to those who do not work as an employee but do so under similar circumstances on the basis of a contract of employment, an ovo. In the current situation, the ovo already claims the minimum wage if one has to perform the work personally, the contract lasts at least three months and includes at least five hours a week. However, as has already been noted, these criteria are susceptible to circumvention, which means that people can still be paid below the minimum wage. That's not acceptable. That's why the law is being amended. The main rule is that the contract is regarded as a contract of employment, at least in the context of the WML. The three criteria mentioned are deleted. The only thing that remains is whether or not the work is carried out on the basis of occupation or business. This is generally about a group of ovo workers who themselves are particularly capable of negotiating the contract and the price and who are satisfied with working on a ovo basis. Of course, it doesn't apply to volunteering, trouble for a job, friend services or helping people close to you. These forms of work are all excluded from the scope of the law under Article 7:400 of the WFD. An important element in the contract of contract is the legal commitment to carry out other activities. This mandatory element is not present with family help, at least in most families, neighborly help and so on. In these cases, therefore, there is no contract of contract. Those cases therefore fall outside the scope of the legislative proposal. There are concerns about the conduct of appeal or business in the Chamber, including Mr Rinnooy Kan. How does a client or contractor know that the contractor is acting on a professional or business basis? These concerns are also seen by some political groups against the background of developments in the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Labour Relations. In the letters of January and February, I indicated that this proposal is separate from the DBA Act and the possible re-examination of the criteria governing the existence of a contract of employment. The purpose of the proposal to apply the WML to contract contracts is to prevent persons working on a ovo basis other than on a professional or business basis from being unfairly excluded from the WML by circumventing the existing criteria. That goal remains relevant, regardless of the way you look at the DBA Act, which also leaves the legislative proposal relevant. It is good to note that this is only necessary if the client pays on or below the statutory minimum wage. Therefore, the entrepreneur who pays the legal minimum wage or more does not have to ask himself whether or not the contractor is acting on the basis of profession or business. That is part of the answer to the question of whether it does not lead to confusion. A client simply pays enough and only if he wants to pay less, he has to verify whether a contractor is acting on a professional or business basis. In the February letter, I indicated that the facts and circumstances of the case are decisive when it comes to the question of entrepreneurship. The same applies to the enforcement of the WML and that remains the case. There shall be no change in that effect as a result of this law. The questions as to whether the contractor has multiple clients and therefore is not dependent on one client and whether he is demonstrably acquiring and presenting himself as an independent entrepreneur play a role in this. These are generally well verifiable criteria for the client. These are therefore the elements that can play a role in the assessment by the inspection. During the past cabinet period important steps have been taken to improve the enforcement of the WML. That's what the inspection's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u37	What the Minister just said, I think, was familiar to many of us, because he quoted almost literally the letter he wrote about it. I fear that it is precisely this letter that confirms that there is indeed a problem here, however much we may all regret it. What the Minister did not take into account in his reply is the fact that where the VAR-wuo used to be a simple answer, with all the questions that you can put to it, it is precisely that simple certainty that cannot be acquired anymore. This is also evident from the list the Minister mentioned. For example, it says: "Another element that can make it plausible that there is self-employment is that annual papers are drawn up by the client for the Tax Administration." He must also present himself outside as an independent entrepreneur. In short, it is not for nothing that VNO-NCW has written a letter, including to this Chamber, to draw attention to this problem once again, giving its own assessment that this is going to cause major problems in its implementation. Is the Minister now saying that he recognizes these problems, but doesn't consider them relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u38	I simply disagree with Mr Rinnooy Kan. I really have a different picture of the problem. I agree with what was known as the problem of the distinction between self-employed and service relations, which VAR-wuo, later DBA, was about. That's what they're looking at. A review and enforcement will have to be considered. However, this is another criterion, namely whether there is an action on the basis of an occupation or an undertaking. The VVD spokesperson rightly pointed out in the case of interruption that it is therefore a category that is only raised if there is doubt as to whether there is sufficient payment, i.e. whether there is payment at or below the level of the statutory minimum wage. This problem is very different in size and nature from the large number of self-employed people we have talked about a lot about recently, including in this Chamber. In this category you will see that in most cases there is a clear contract of contract and that in a limited number of cases there may be action on the basis of profession or business. In such cases, the contractor can show fairly simply that this is the case and may be required from the client that he checks whether or not he is. There is a connection, namely the discussion of the criteria, but the link is not as problematic as VNO-NCW in his letter or as Mr Rinnooy Kan suggests in his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u39	I'm unconvincingly convinced. In my view, the Minister's response illustrates that his perspective is inadequate. It is typical of the relationships that entrepreneurs enter into in this atmosphere, that these are not based on an hourly rate, but on a performance to be delivered. Whether or not this corresponds to remuneration at minimum wage level can only be answered by a detailed hour registration. It is also precisely the time and administrative burden against which VNO-NCW acts. In this respect, too, I have to say that the Minister really does not succeed in convincing me that the feasibility of his legislative proposal on this not insignificant issue will really succeed in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u40	Mr Rinnooy Kan sends such serious signals about the lack of conviction in my reply that I fear that I will not be able to convince him now either. I don't see it that way. I believe that the existing criteria, which already apply to the exception of the WML, do not change by this law. The only thing that changes is the deletion of a number of exception clauses, the five hours per week, the three-month clause, the three-month clause, the three-month clause, the three-month clause, the five-hour clause, the five-hour clause, the three-month clause, the three-month clause, the three-month clause, the five-hour clause, the five-hour clause, the five-hour clause, the If the problem had been as serious as Mr Rinnooy Kan outlined, it would not have made it any more serious. The only thing is that an escape clause is being cut off that we have seen used unfairly. We share the goal and the view that this was unacceptable. These criteria are not newly introduced, but are already an exception to the applicability of the WML. That was not so much my idea, but it also has to do with the fact that you cannot impose such requirements on entrepreneurs. All we are doing is deleting the exception that was unfortunately abused. I understand that there are problems with the DBA and that there is discussion about the desirability of abolishing the VAR-wuo, but I would very much appreciate it if we did not create the picture that this criterion is now being introduced. That is not the case. We delete an escape clause from the desired applicability of the WML. If the problem is as serious as VNO and D66 sketches, it has not been made worse. All you do is bring a group of vulnerable contractors into the operation of the WML.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u41	The point I'm trying to make here is, in short, the following. This law is conceived in the world of the VAR-wuo, and in it it would be exquisitely enforceable. But in the post-VAR world in which we have ended up, there is indeed a substantial implementation problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u42	Even if that were the case, it was not created or aggravated by this law. The only thing that changes this law in the situation is that the five-hour and three-month escape route is being cancelled. Even if you are concerned about the persistence of the current WML............................................................................................................................................................ Even so, you could vote for this law with peace of mind. After all, it doesn't change the persistence that there is. That's what I told VNO. The only thing the law does is to cut off the construction, where individual contracts are deliberately concluded for less than five hours or less than three months. This affects tens of thousands of often vulnerable contractors in mail delivery and in other sectors. Even if there were problems with the persistence of the WML as it is, I hope that goal will nevertheless be decisive in the final balancing of D66. I'm going into the fictional employment now. If there is no contract of employment, there may be a fictitious or equivalent employment relationship. However, the client and the contractor may agree that there is no equivalent or fictitious employment. That possibility of excluding the equivalent or fictitious employment was introduced by the cited AMvB of 5 May, because the Tax Administration cannot assess in advance whether or not there is independence in the assessment of the model contract. A cautious estimate of "right' is that it concerns 12,000 people. I also share the concerns that have been expressed. It's not what you want. Here too, it is part of the DBA-AMvB. The only thing that changes this bill is that people who, as a result of that contract, are no longer engaged in a fictitious service but are considered self-employed will at least be entitled to the statutory minimum wage when they work under contract. Even though the position of those people has deteriorated as a result of that AMvB, which I acknowledge, you give them at least a claim to the legal minimum wage. That seems to me to be desirable in the light of the objective, which I believe is little misunderstanding about. This bill is about remuneration and obligation to grant the ovoer at least that wml. The WML-ovo will apply to some 50,000 contractors. That's what the 2013 report quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr Rinnooy Kan has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u44	I would also like to say a few words on this matter. This isn't unimportant either. The Minister is pleased to acknowledge that, as a result of the AMvB, at least a real problem has arisen in the existing protection that provided the fictitious employment. This is all the more remarkable because it does not make it possible to contract out in other areas of labour law. Only in this particular example will this be done. So my question is: if so, is the Minister prepared to stand up for correcting this apparently undesirable side effect by trying to ban the road contract that is being made possible here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u45	The questioner is aware that he is asking for this from a outgoing minister, who will have little decisive influence in advocating this, except, of course, for the strength of moral conviction. It's still standing up. But I know that the formation will look at this subject, because the DBA discussion is still there. That is why I would like to stress the importance of having another look at this. I would like to say that to Mr Rinnooy. His enthusiasm is limited, I can tell by his body language, but I can't offer him much more now. Little is much for those who do not expect much, I have thought to myself. Why do only the people covered by an ovo come under the WML and not, for example, those covered by an acceptance agreement or a transport contract? If I could turn back the time until before I took office and recreate the bill, it might indeed have been easier to apply it to all the agreements. At the time, my predecessor Henk Kamp did not choose to do so. There was also an argument for this in itself, because the problems focused on the ovo users. Nevertheless, an AMvB option was introduced in the event that the problem would extend to other agreements. I therefore agree with the questioner that it could have been simpler. As it is, I do believe that the problem is indeed concentrated around the ovo, and especially among the delivery workers. I am not at all against working on such an AMvB and bringing other agreements into operation. I don't think anyone in this room wants it to move. In general, the contractor is paid much more than the minimum wage, so we know few examples of it, but if I may take the announcement of a fifth D66 period so that if a ruling by the Chamber would be positive, hopefully a majority will follow, that would be nice. In any case, I am prepared to investigate whether such an AMvB should be made, so that it is ready if one feels the need to add other similarities. Finally, the question about my will; what do I give my successor? I am very much alive in myself, and my successors will undoubtedly be able to choose their own priorities. As far as I am concerned, that is equal pay for equal work and tackling abuses in the labour market. Those have been the themes for me during my presidency. I have been able to discuss these several times with great pleasure in fine debates with this Chamber. Whoever's gonna be the successor, I'm sure I'll give it to him or her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u46	Thank you. Mr. Rinnooy Kan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. I do, listening to the Minister, have the need to table a motion. I understand that I will need a fifth term for this. As far as I am concerned, he will be able to limit himself to that, but I do not know what the other members of this Chamber think. In any case, I would very much like to table that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u48	I put it to the Chamber and I note that a fifth deadline is agreed for Mr Rinnooy Kan to table a motion and for a reply from the Minister to the motion. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan in the fifth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to be brief, with thanks for the space offered here. I wanted to respond immediately to what the Minister said. These points are high in my group, precisely because I attach so much importance to the objective which he has taken on and which, I repeat, I wholeheartedly support. In my view, it is also widely shared by this Chamber and it is important that we do this well and that it is feasible. Then the three points I mentioned are still bothering me. That is why I am tabling this motion to deal with it when this bill is put to the vote. The President shall: Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Schnabel, Mr De Graaf, Mr Backer, Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the conditions under which work is carried out at the bottom of the labour market are grounds for justified concern;]] [[Whereas it is appropriate to promote the need to safeguard minimum wage pay for all self-employed persons, other than the self-employed, who are paid on the basis of a contract for work done;]] [[noting that the bill restricts this protection to those of this group engaged in work on the basis of a contract of employment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that protection at minimum wage level is not limited to this, but extends to the whole group;]] [[calls on the Government to restore the fictitious employment of this group by preventing its contracting out;]] [[further requests the Government to provide clients with a simpler way of verifying whether a contractor can be regarded as self-employed in the tax sense and thus does not fall within the scope of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33623-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u50	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you also to D66 for the efforts to extend my ministry through this fifth term in the Upper Chamber. It's a bit like a tie break at some tennis games that keep going. I'm afraid I won't make it any easier right away, although there are elements in the motion that I'm sympathetic to, given the debate we've had with each other. First of all, we are asked to ensure that this is not just about the ovo but about the whole group. In itself, I have no objection to that. It is actually a kind of backstop, a reserve position already given in the law by the possibility of an AMvB. In fact, therefore, an AMvB is requested to create such an AMvB. The second request is more problematic. I fully understand why the petitioner has concerns about the fictional employment group. However, the simple restoration of this situation could come up against objections. The question is what this means for the functioning of the DBA Act (deregulation assessment of employment relations). So I really do not feel free to accept this request. I would suggest that the applicant reword that request, more like the one put forward in the debate, namely: look at it again, bring it to the attention, and also pay attention to the negative consequences for those 12,600 people who, as a result of this, have contracted out their possibility of a fictitious employment. I therefore ask the author to amend the motion on this point. If the House does adopt the motion, I must return to it in writing. Then I will explain why it is a problem to make this request one-on-one. The third request concerns a simpler method of verification. On that point, I would like to temper the expectations somewhat. I am prepared to make an effort to do so. If it had been very simple, we would have done it already, but if the Chamber had asked to look at it again, also in the light of the concern of VNO-NCW and some of us here in the Chamber, I would certainly be prepared to do so. Then it is an effort obligation, and we need to see to what extent it can be improved compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u52	Thank you to the Minister for his constructive response. My request to him would be to incorporate his technical problem on the second point of the motion in a letter which I hope we will be able to receive in the very near future and which might then give rise to a change in the precise wording of the motion. I am really curious to understand what the problem is. There's an AMvB. In my opinion it should not be difficult to replace it with a better AMvB or to withdraw it at all. However, if it is much more complicated, I would like to understand why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u53	The attempts to extend the duration of my ministry are now becoming touching, at least that's how I experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u54	Well, at least you're saying it's positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u55	I'm very optimistic in life. That's important in these days. I would, however, be very keen to be clear about the fate of the legislative proposal. I have indicated that I cannot fully implement the motion, which is also reflected in the pre-opinion. Perhaps it would be appropriate to consider whether or not the motion should be adopted in writing, so that the Chamber might once again disagree. When it comes to the second point, we do not touch the core of this law, but we are talking about another discussion, which has to do with the AMvB regarding the DBA Act. Whether or not this law is passed is separate from that issue. I think we can agree on that. I would very much appreciate it if the House would vote on the legislative proposal before us and on the motion. I would then be happy to respond in writing to the second request in the motion. I would rather not see the vote on this bill continue. Of course, it's up to the Chamber, but I'll give this to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u56	Mr President, I am actually looking in your direction. I assume that both the bill and the motion will be discussed next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u57	If I believe that the debate can be closed, I will ask if the Chamber wishes to vote. If someone says they wish for a vote, then the vote on the bill is next week. The vote on the motion will take place next week, because we are not going to vote on the motion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u58	That's how I understood it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u59	I hope we're not starting a sixth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u60	That's exactly how I understood it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u61	Good, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mr. Chairman. I had come at the end of my fifth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u63	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I note that this is the case. Then I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-8.u64	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:00.
