ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the report by the Temporary Committee on Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities (CXXIV, A). I would like to welcome the chairman and members of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber, who have now sat behind the government table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Change is not an end in itself for my group. Critical self-reflection, on the other hand, is always important. Such self-reflection, with an open eye to the social and political-administrative environment in which the First Chamber operates, is exactly what the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber has carried out the preliminary work, challenged the individual members, provided analyses and provided the Chamber as a whole with conclusions and recommendations. My group concludes that the committee has examined all the relevant dimensions of the working methods and functioning of the First Chamber. Feeded by the results of the survey among the members of this House, the Committee, in the opinion of the CDA Group, makes valid and concrete recommendations. My group congratulates the committee on its excellent results and welcomes the conclusions and recommendations. Mr. Chairman. I am not going to comment on the interim report of the Remkes State Commission, on the coalition agreement or on the debate that took place in the First Chamber a while ago on the establishment of the State Committee. I am only referring to the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. My group reads the analyses, conclusions and recommendations in such a way that they focus on the classic core task of the First Chamber as a chambre de réflection, an indirectly elected Chamber which recognises the parliamentary-political primacy of the Second Chamber; a self-conscious Chamber which, from its own specific point of view and its members' own expertise, focuses on the quality of the legislation, which naturally also comes into being in a political context. My group appreciates that. The Committee's findings are based on a broad representativeness of three quarters of those Members of Parliament who have answered the Committee's questions. This means that there is broad support for this starting point in the Chamber. My group welcomes this. It concludes that there is a strong consensus on the proper functioning of the procedures and practices of this Chamber and comes to a similar conclusion with regard to political culture. Maintaining, confirming and, where necessary, reviewing all of this ensures the long-term. My group therefore expressly supports the first recommendation in Chapter 2 on the processes in the Upper House. My group also considers that the suspension of motions for resolutions which have been held after six months is a useful innovation. Some self-control in filing motions is not an unnecessary luxury either. It is often far too easy for the government to use the label "urgent" for legislative proposals as a thorn in our group's eye. We are therefore happy to support the committee's recommendations on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I do not intend to appoint all the recommendations. However, I would like to clarify some of them, starting from Chapter 3. As a Chamber of Review, the issues of legislative quality remain and remain of evident importance. In its report, the Committee rightly points out the focus aspects of legality, effectiveness, efficiency, feasibility and enforcement. In order to be able to test against these criteria, good information is essential. In my group's view, this does indeed mean the provision of effective and insightful tests on the enforcement and feasibility of the government. My group appreciates the initiative taken by the working group on the implementation test by the Committee on Finance and is happy to follow the working group's proposal to all committees or committees. to broaden all Members of Parliament. Consolidated legal texts are sometimes necessary for a proper assessment of legislative proposals and they should indeed be provided from a government perspective. Of course, this is not necessary in the case of minor and self-contained changes in substance. The atmosphere in Chapter 4 of the House's agenda on research and the handling of policies is appealing to my group. This atmosphere amounts to a focus on the aforementioned core tasks: review of legislation, from the specific Eerste Kamer perspective. My group believes that its implementation in practice can be resistive, but it supports the committee's recommendations in this area. With regard to Chapter 5, communication with society, my group asks the committee why it makes a distinction here between substantive and procedural committee meetings. Why were procedural meetings decided in principle? Does that have a practical reason, for example that there is little interest to be expected? Public access is sometimes important for substantive meetings, but the opposite may also be the case. The same applies to oral consultations with a member of the government. In the last two cases, in order to have to decide explicitly before a closed meeting that it has been decided, does that not place too much weight on such a decision? The change in the electronic mail system for citizens' letters is a must for my group. The limited real accessibility of this post for Members of Parliament is not well justified. The slight reluctance of the House of Representatives, which is expressed in the recommendations in Chapter 6 on the subject of European issues, has, in my group's view, been appropriate, especially over time. We read Recommendation 4, on the government's "any annotated Council agenda and any Council report," which is merely a contribution to the provision of information and not necessarily a matter of substance. We expect a great deal from the so-called legislative sheets mentioned in the recommendations in Chapter 7. I'll finish, Madam President. Whether it is about gaining insight into the time spent by Members of Parliament in the First Chamber, or about dealing with the Chamber with integrity, or about the way in which the Chamber operates in the broad sense, a self-reflection always leads to the question of what the work is really about in the core. The Committee concludes that there is no reason to radically review the procedure of the First Chamber. "Renew to preserve," the committee quotes some of Potgieter's closing rules with apparent agreement. The CDA Group reads this in such a way that the committee focuses on the classic core tasks of the Upper House. There is therefore broad support for this, at least in the CDA Group. The committee's report is a wonderful starting point to improve the internal working methods where it can. The CDA Group is grateful to the committee for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The task of the First Chamber is not to establish good, but to prevent evil." For example, Minister Donker Curtius motivated the maintenance of the First Chamber in 1848, after in 1815 when the First Chamber was introduced: "In order to avoid all excesses in the consultations, in difficult times to set salutary posts, to surround the throne by a stronghold against which all parties cast off." Much has changed since then, but in particular the first mentioned is the core of the work of the First Chamber. The political primacy is on the other side and here we review legislation again on its effectiveness, enforcement, legality, feasibility, effectiveness and so on. Whether this should be changed is not today's debate, but will undoubtedly be reviewed by the State Committee which is examining the whole parliamentary system. There is no doubt that we will be discussing the State Commission at another time in the next few days. The task of the temporary committee was to review our working methods and to see whether there is a need to make changes to them. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is pleased to note that, according to both the committees and the members who have taken part in the survey or who have answered the questions correctly, the procedure of the First Chamber does not really need to be changed in order to be able to do our work properly. Only on a few parts are proposals being made to change or should I say improvements? (a) to be applied; (b) to be applied; (c) to be I will not deal with everything, but I will concentrate on a number of points on which the VVD Group has questions or comments. However, I do not wish to go into the content until I have thanked the committee and the staff on behalf of our group for the great work and for the very readable report with a good analysis, a very large part of our Members and finally conclusions and recommendations. I'll walk past the six parts. It is a good thing that the committee under the heading of 'processes' has also paid attention to political culture or the desirable political culture. So these are unwritten rules, which are not enforceable. The committee makes seven recommendations which we can very much support: respect for each other, giving room to political minorities, fulfilling commitments, accepting diversity, transparency in the use of procedures, transparency on main and secondary functions and the search for cooperation. It should be noted, however, that the unwritten rules of political culture are vulnerable if they are too often used for political purposes. As far as I am concerned, it could be added that filibusters should be avoided, but perhaps the committee is trying to say this with the recommendation to be transparent in the use of procedures. Please respond to that. One of the three proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure is to rule out sitting and standing. Can the committee say anything about that? Constitutionally, it is reserved for each Member to apply for a roll-call vote at any time. The growing practice is happy, I would say that this happens very rarely. Should I understand that, in the opinion of the committee, it could very well be incorporated in this way, provided that it is possible, and that is what the proposal is, to ask one Member for a roll-call vote at any time, after which it will do so? If that is true, then of course we in the VVD Group can agree. Then there's the review in the First Chamber. In fact, the assessment of feasibility in particular is still a sensitive issue, sometimes because laws reach us very amended and sometimes because implementation is not sufficiently tested for submission or because the House of Representatives did not really take a serious look at it either. In the meantime, our Committee on Finance is preparing a proposal to look much more fundamentally at feasibility. As soon as the committee has finished its proposal, I think it is important that this is widely expressed through the senior citizens. In addition, it would also be good if an important amendment were tabled by the House of Representatives, as well as ensuring the feasibility of adopting such an amendment. The committee's recommendations are therefore excellent. Then there is the question of the agenda's own content. The VVD Group believes that policy debates in this House should be kept as limited as possible. The APB, the AFB and the AEB, if I may use the abbreviations: the Political Reviews, the Financial Reviews and the European Reviews, are in fact the only debates that are traditionally on the agenda. I must confess that I sometimes doubt the usefulness of the APB if its content is very similar to an abridged version of the contribution of fellow party members across the street. It happens every now and then. The committee proposes to introduce the theme debate. We have great hesitation as to whether the introduction of a new type of debate outside the legislative debate and the aforementioned debates will really make sense. Does that mean that no other policy debates are allowed anymore? The committee is proposing to deal with it with restraint, but we cannot imagine very well what added value such a debate on the subject could have. I can be brief about communication with society. We agree with everything the committee proposes. The committee pays particular attention to Europe. That is right, if only because the position of our Chamber is another one in European legislation. In doing so, the First Chamber plays a separate role, which is explicitly mentioned in the report. A working method was agreed in 2009. The questionnaire also asked a number of questions about the way in which Europe works. Actually, the committee makes two moves here. First of all, she nuances the independent role of the First Chamber vis-à-vis the Second Chamber and the Government. It is also stressed that it is important to know the BNC-fiche and/or the view of the House of Representatives before proceeding with their own proceedings. It would be very good for the House of Representatives to realize this, especially in the case of, for example, the subsidiarity test for which an eight-week period applies, and to deal with it so quickly that the First Chamber has sufficient time to make a full assessment. I would like to point out that this is also in the interest of the House of Representatives. In different opinions, the government is about free to take a position on its own without taking Parliament into account. The VVD Group wonders whether the proposals put forward by the committee on this matter really solves the problem of insufficient attention to European regulation. Further information is requested, while we are wondering whether more focus would not be a much better solution. The Committee also proposes to carry out an experiment with its own official paid by the Chamber: the PVSG, the Permanent Representative of the States General. At the moment there is one such official, who in practice works almost exclusively for the House of Representatives. You can ask the following questions. Are we asking a great deal of the official who is doing that work at the moment? Shouldn't we at first define what our information needs are? And what do we want to achieve with more official assistance in Brussels? On the basis of the document, it seems that it is mainly expected that this official, by being more present at committee meetings in our Chamber, will better know what our wishes are. Can't that be taken care of in another way? Is it not more effective to promote the promotion of the positions of the government and the House of Representatives as soon as possible before we deal with regulations and call for recommendation 4 to first implement the annotated Council agendas and Council reports, thus making up-to-date information available, and to evaluate them, and then to consider whether this experiment could be useful? The most important thing, in my opinion, is that, before introducing a new instrument, we know exactly what we really want, why we want it, for what and for whom we want it, and what we then do with it. I would therefore ask our committee to carry out this analysis before a new official is appointed. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the committee has also devoted a chapter to our support. First of all about digital support. I would like to join Mrs Bijsterveld on this point. The VVD Group would appreciate the fact that a programme of requirements for the digital mail app is being drawn up and members can also contribute. The Group believes that it is high time that a simple, good search engine was created, where you can quickly find all received letters on the subject by keyword or number of a bill. Honesty commands me to say that I, and many colleagues in my group, hardly use the current app, let alone look at everything that comes in. Sometimes you open it and suddenly you see a thousand letters waiting for you or something. The Committee proposes that, for all legislative proposals which can count on a substantive examination in the First Chamber, a brief "fiche bill" should also be drawn up by the staff. We would like to amend that proposal a little bit. Let each committee decide whether it is necessary to draw up such a sheet for legislative proposals in this area. There will be legislative proposals where this is absolutely necessary, but there may also be proposals where this is unnecessary. Finally, the Committee proposes that a separate item of €50,000 be included in the estimate in order to allow for the appointment of trainees by political groups. We very much agree with that. Finally, it is good to note that, on average, the members of the First Chamber are satisfied with the way in which it has developed. In fact, no major changes are proposed either. Whether this will change in the future depends, of course, much more on the possible proposals from the state committee. We look forward to that, of course, with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group in the First Chamber would like to begin by complimenting the members of the Working Method Committee of the First Chamber for the thorough and valuable work she has done after nine months. This appreciation also applies to official support, which reaffirmed its excellent reputation. In general, we agree with a large number of conclusions, recommendations and amendments and will therefore not discuss them further. This applies, for example, to sitting and standing up and voting. As an elderly party, 50PLUS is in favour of increasing the movement of MPs. Although in the November questionnaire last year the point "do you miss anything?" After reading the report, the 50PLUS Group had the feeling that it would like to raise a few additional points. On the one hand, this is inspired by the election results of 15 March and the subsequent cabinet formation, which make us realize that a number of changes are taking place irreversibly, and on the other hand by the fact that, according to the survey, the senators generally agree with the conclusions. 50PLUS will address this point on a point-by-point basis. First of all, the increasing fragmentation within our Parliament will have a direct impact on the functioning of the Upper Chamber. After the Second World War, the First Chamber was practically made up of six parties, until 2011, with a short exception in 1995 it was almost ten. Now we have a second parliamentary term with twelve parties and if we mirror the Lower Parliament elections of 15 March to the next First Parliament elections, in one and a half years' time, this number would increase to fourteen through the new parties Think and Forum for Democracy. It is good if this is given due consideration in future discussions, in addition to further fragmentation. For example, in the last century, I was part of a PvdA Senate Group, which consisted of 28 members, as was the CDA Group. At present, the largest group consists of 13 Members. She is therefore the smallest group in the history of the Senate. What does the fragmentation really mean? An increase in the number of small to very small groups, making it impossible for these groups to participate in all committee meetings and debates. Loss of quality and care? I will come back to that in a moment. The committee pays a great deal of attention to political culture and the unwritten political laws. The political parties in the House of Representatives have opted for a government that has a majority of only one vote in both the Second and the First Chambers. That has been the explicit choice of VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. In the First Chamber there is a culture of pairing. Overall, this means that if a member of the government coalition is absent from an important vote due to illness or, for example, work abroad, then a member of the opposition is prepared not to vote. This political habit has gone further in our Senate than in many other political representative bodies, both nationally and internationally. In the case of certain circumstances, such as illness, we already know the possibility of replacement. In other cases, one must be aware that a senator should be present at important votes and that the government parties have made a completely free choice to rule with 38 votes to 37. 50PLUS raises the current unwritten law and in any case states that 50PLUS will not cooperate in the future. If there is to be a vote, there must be a vote. I come to the following, the third point: the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u8	Maybe we don't have to be so afraid of the consequences of this, because if 50PLUS is so for moving, they always vote in favour. That's how I understand it, because you always stand up. But here's what I'm saying. The presence in this Chamber is always very high. If there aren't people who are often very few, then that has to do with meetings elsewhere or visits to parliaments elsewhere. Now you announce here that you will no longer be part of the pairing. I myself think that this is a very serious violation of the culture of our Chamber, on which the committee has said good things, and in fact it is not a sign of the courtesy we have with each other here. So I'd like to distance myself from the fact that you're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u9	Each group may have its own ideas on it, but does Mr Nagel realize that some of our Members have already been said by Mr Kuiper.......................................................................................................................................................................... What you are actually saying is that all these Members should always be here on Tuesday, because otherwise Mr Nagel might be able to provoke a vote in the context of those 37-38 or 38-37. If that's the way you behave, isn't that a brusque reflection of the work of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u10	Would you like to connect to this right away, Mrs. Jorritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u11	Maybe it's useful to ask a subsequent question. I'm a little surprised because it suggests that in this house laws are always passed with votes by coalition and opposition. The number of legislative proposals under consideration in this Chamber is high. Very often, how is voted runs right through party lines. So it may also be in the interest of your own group to pair if someone is absent for whatever reason. I don't think it's that hard, because then we'll just stop coming to you when there's to be paired. But you will miss an instrument that is a pleasant instrument in a good political culture for every group, including the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u12	First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Kuiper's aside on moving and sitting and getting up. Indeed, as a constructive party, we will usually vote in favour and therefore stand up. And in the case of voting against, we will make a false move on some occasions. But now for the issue of pairing. We don't think you can say it's always like that. It won't always be about one voice. But as a government coalition, they deliberately chose a majority of one vote. Then we must also accept the consequence. I said: look elsewhere too, at other representative bodies. I rarely or never see the way it happens here in the First Chamber. Indeed, as a Member of Parliament and a coalition with a majority of only one vote, I think that you should put your legislative priority here. That's an idea. You may disagree with that, but you cannot deny me that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u13	I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, the formation of a cabinet takes place across the street, not in this Chamber. There is no question of the only possible coalition that has been wanted but of the only possible coalition left, but we will discuss it with each other in the General Reviews. It seems to me that Mr Nagel's error of thinking is a bit weird. The most important thing, however, is this. I was talking about those international delegations. That's work on behalf of the entire Chamber. It's not just the opposition that's involved. The political groups which support the government in principle are also involved in this. What you are actually saying is that those people should no longer go to Strasbourg, Brussels and so on, but should always stay here, because their voice must weigh more heavily and then they should be here. Mr Nagel might also think: that is a logical consequence of the task of the entire First Chamber, and if there is a delegation gone, we will take that into account when we vote. You can do that when you decide when to vote. And if there's no other way, you can pair, like we're doing right now. That is not only courteous; it also has to do with the core of the tasks of the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u14	We can keep repeating the arguments. First of all, it's not gonna happen every week. It will be an exception that there will be votes and it will be that one vote. Secondly, we can see the distance to Brussels or Strasbourg. Voting time is short, on Tuesday at 1.30 p.m. It's a pretty neat thing. We think it is politically important that there is clarity in the First Chamber and we have given and supported our position. Once again, one can disagree with that, Mr Kuiper, even heartily, I hear, and I respect that, but that does not mean that we have the view we have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u15	Perhaps a small addition to the issue of pairing. A predecessor of mine once had a personal matter. He was seriously ill and was therefore not present. Then a group, in this case GroenLinks, formed the pairing in a great way. So there may be circumstances that you cannot overlook in advance and in which you would like to support pairing. So I would suggest that you at least say that you do not want to pair 'in principle'. A firm ruling does not do justice to the particular courtesy I have seen in this Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u16	We experienced this morning that a member was replaced for illness. We know our rules for that. If someone is ill for a long time or is seriously ill, they can be replaced. That's not a big deal. The same applies, for example, to women who are pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u17	The relevant predecessor of mine, Mr Holdijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u18	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u19	It was the day he heard that he was seriously ill, so he couldn't say to the chairman: I haven't been here for four months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u20	No, but there are arrangements for someone to be replaced. This can be done in the relatively short term. Those arrangements are there for a reason; make use of them. I think we're repeating ourselves, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u21	One more interruption on this point, by Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u22	No, we're not done, I guess. This naturally occurs when a roll-call vote is requested. We always had the rule here that a roll-call vote should be requested a week in advance. Lately, it has often happened that on the day of the vote, a roll-call vote has been requested. It's allowed. That's the situation we're talking about. That's what my colleague De Graaf is referring to. If part of the Chamber is absent, people can start calculating: if I apply for a roll-call vote now, this law or this proposal may well fall. That's kind of an opportunity we don't know here and we shouldn't have here either. Whatever happens then, I can also predict you. A roll-call vote will then be requested on the day. We need permission to do that. My group will not do that, and I suspect that several groups will agree that we should maintain the old rule that a roll-call vote should be requested a week in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u23	I fully agree with that last point. You can also count on 50PLUS to comply. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. My next point concerns the General Political Reviews. It is expected that sixteen ministers and their secretaries of state will be present for two days. The question, apart from where they all need to find a place, is usually somewhat limited in the number of cabinet members who are fascinated by the point of view of the chair. In the opinion of 50PLUS, this use dates from a past tense, when means of communication were still limited. At this time many rulers are either absent or slip away in the meantime. Or they're present, but they're active on their electronic equipment. We know, like no other, how the traditions and significance of the Senate are attached to it, but we are concerned that it is not more efficient to have a limited number of rulers present in these considerations, for example the Prime Minister, the three Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister of Finance. 50PLUS believes that it should be one of both: either we modernise this tradition or we maintain it, but also fully. On the 4th and 5th of December we see which surprise awaits us. My next point is the plenary part-sessions. With a variation on the pronunciation of the former PvdA-senator and formatter Jaap Burger, 50PLUS says: meeting if there is anything to meet. In the parliamentary season 2016-2017, according to our observation, there were subjective, but our observation was at least four or five meeting days of such a short duration that the First Chamber did not have to meet. For example, there was a meeting that contained only one hammerpiece and that included heart-warming and extensive handshaking took five minutes. That hammer piece could have been clipped on another date. Of course we know the counter-arguments, such as: there are also committee meetings. But perhaps they can also take place slightly differently and less frequently. The committee meetings are the next item. Many committee meetings have a strong procedural character. Here too we see many meetings with twenty or more people who last up to fifteen minutes, but often also shorter. They are often used to record how many groups want to have input into the written procedure and at what time. Surely this registration can be much more effective in modern times, for example via an e-mail message? This can certainly be done by a political body that was the frontrunner against the paper parliament. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities rightly states under 2.2.1 of the report that oral consultations must have sufficient added value to organise this. Here too, some courage is needed to carry out a far-reaching reform. In view of the fragmentation in the Senate, more and more small parties who also have to attend plenary sessions benefit from this, given the many committee meetings. Sometimes there are more than 20 on a meeting afternoon. I'd like to get a reaction to this. There is a great deal of attention to the issue of openness. The proposed amendments are certainly improvements, but they will only take place in the future. 50PLUS is in favour of procedural meetings also being held in public. If public access to space is not possible, the public can follow the meeting via audio. We are talking about a small investment for which we are getting public access back. Another point is the motions. The committee notes that there is an increase in the number of motions without going into more detail. The freedom to file motions is on trial outside the discussion. Nevertheless, this growth, also on the other side of the House of Representatives, is quite large and not without negative influence. In the Lower House, the number of motions remained below 50 in the first twenty years after the Second World War. In 1967 the 100-limit was broken and in 1979 the 1,000-limit was exceeded. In 2015, even the 3,000 barrier was broken. While threatening a motion was an unprecedentedly strong political weapon that the parliamentary press never escaped, there is now an unbridled collection of motions that the average citizen can no longer follow. In the First Chamber, the number of motions remained below 10. During the previous and current term of office, and also years of office, there were more than 80 motions. We are all in on that, not excluding 50PLUS. The only way to restore the influence and significance of motions is for the groups to impose a self-limitation. Perhaps it would be good to discuss this separately once again. Another point is the urgent legislative proposals. Over the past six years, as a 50PLUS group, we have seen many times that agreements have not been complied with. The seniors' meeting repeatedly found that the Senate was put under unreasonable pressure, putting the careful treatment at risk. The conclusions and recommendations reword this in 2.6.6 and reiterate this to the attention of the government. This issue is more topical than ever, now that the new cabinet is about to take office. 50PLUS would like to see this implemented by a letter to the Rutte III cabinet, in which things are properly recorded, so as to avoid the need to sigh again many times in the future before going down deep. And then there is a small, but not entirely insignificant, point: the subsidy to the political groups. We agree with the current regulation, but we do wonder why we are still working with an advance of 90%. This is particularly difficult for the small groups at the end of the year, because we have to advance and return from our own resources. Why not just pay out 100% and offset the amount not spent, as is the case now? If we are well informed, this change has already been made in the Lower House. New is the amount of €50,000 for attracting trainees. Groups who want to make use of this will have a right of draw. Question: how does the distribution of this amount take place? That is not quite clear to us. And then the subject: the novelle. A Chamber which has no right of amendment sometimes takes it for granted. We believe that this development is increasing. The treatment of the amendment of the Media Act was a textbook example of this, as was rarely shown before. Could it be an idea to agree on a fundamental discussion on this matter? In the final word, the committee writes that much is going well in the First Chamber and there is no reason to radically revise the working method. We agree with that view, by making the suggestions mentioned above. We believe that the further fragmentation which is likely to take place in the next Senate elections should be a reason for continuing attention to be paid to the way in which it works. And that is what I am going to say to Mr De Graaf as well, as long as the First Chamber is not abolished, which would of course be the very best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Nagel. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak about the procedure and function of the First Chamber in a well-founded and well-documented manner. During the discussions on the possible establishment of a State Committee on Parliamentary System, too often the functioning of parliamentary democracy, the frictions within the two-chamber system and the functioning of the First Chamber were confused and insufficiently distinguished. Fortunately, together in this Chamber, we were able to formulate a clear mandate for the State Committee and also agree that the First Chamber itself would examine its own working methods, with a view to possible improvements. I commend Mr Kuiper for his initiative in this area that we were then able to set up together in the College of Seniors. And that eventually led to the establishment of the temporary committee led by Mr Flierman. May I thank the temporary committee for the excellent work it has done, and also within a reasonable period of time? In my group's view, the committee has done extremely useful work and has produced a report which contains reflections and makes useful recommendations in many areas. The fact that these recommendations are also based on a question from all the members of this Chamber will prove to be an assurance of the acceptance of the report in general in this Chamber. I would therefore like to thank Anne Flierman and his colleagues and the clerk of the committee, Fred Bergman and the staff, who I would also like to mention specifically for the Acts, Laurens Dragstra and Ilse van den Driessche. I should perhaps also like to make a relative remark: if many Members of this Chamber are satisfied with the current way of working on parts, it is not, of course, that this method is the best one, at the most, that Members are able to cope with it. Some traditionalism, perhaps a slight form of conservatism, is not strange in this First Chamber, which even sometimes seems to be in the genes of the institute. I suspect, for example, that seven years ago Members were also very satisfied with the information and the documents that they received every week in large envelopes from their home address in the mailbox. Yet no one would want to go back to that practice now that we have the excellent working First Chamber app on our iPad since 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u26	To sum up, I don't think we were so happy with those envelopes and especially not when they were delivered in the middle of the night, because then my wife would be sitting up in the bed of "there is a break-in." So that's where we've really improved on it. That we like everything in certain circumstances may be true, but I think that we have really made great strides forward in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u27	I fully agree with you. My question was whether, before the possibility of the iPad existed, we felt that changes were possible. But you've been in this First Chamber for a long time, so maybe there'll be a change that we don't see coming in advance but which we're very happy with afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going through all the recommendations of the temporary committee. Where my group explicitly does not agree with the recommendations, I shall address this in my contribution. I would like to focus my speech on the six points which I believe are the essence of the committee's report and which I shall look briefly at: the political culture in relation to the processes in this Chamber, the review function of the First Chamber, the research function, the European working method, the scope for policy debates or thematic debates and, finally, the adaptation of the political groups and individual Members. The political culture in the First Chamber is as obvious as it is elusive. You know it's there and what it is, until you try to describe it, a bit like Augustine struggled with the term "time." The temporary committee makes a meritorious attempt to describe elements of it, such as the political party, always a beautiful concept, by the way, and respect for each other or the coulance in the enforcement of agreements. Cooperation across political groups, to promote the quality of input, is also part of this, as is the avoidance of systematic obstruction through procedures. It is a nice list, but the question is whether it does not apply, or at least should apply, to the House of Representatives. To be honest, I believe that any parliament should stand by its value, its courtesy, its transparency and, where possible, its desire for cooperation. More fundamentally, I believe that the First Chamber is an indirectly elected part-time parliament, which cannot rely on a political primacy and is limited in terms of functions and powers in a sense: no right of initiative, no right of amendment, no right of appointment, such as the Second Chamber which has in a number of cases, and no role in the formation of a new cabinet. That does not mean that I say it explicitly that our Chamber is or should be a political eunuch; the Upper Chamber is and remains a political body with members elected on political grounds and political lists. However, it calls for wise self-control and self-limitation which, as it were, result from all these parliamentary shortcomings. Our'mores', which are the expression of that political culture, are all, I think, to go back to that. When the First Chamber of the House of Representatives starts to play, she saws at the feet of her own existence. I would also point out that we do not keep to these mores on a regular basis and that, in a sense, they are apparently also variable, as has been shown once again in the debate on the interruption with Mr Nagel. O tempora, o mores. It is important, I think, that we all bear in mind that the social added value of the First Chamber lies in no way in political companies such as that on the other side, with the plenary as an arena in which political contradictions are only strengthened rather than bridged. Rather, our legitimacy seems to me to be based on the further consideration, the reflection after the sometimes hasty and under great political pressure, decision-making in the House of Representatives. That further consideration can be political, yes, even party politics, but never just that. The social reflections, the legal and other legal comments, the questions of coherence, enforcement and feasibility of rules imposed on society and citizens will be heard. Mr. Chairman. Some words about the review function of the Upper Chamber. As the temporary committee rightly points out, it is not only legal or technical in nature, but ultimately also political. Nevertheless, we all attach great importance to the grounds for scrutiny which transcend party positions or political ideologies. Is legislation presented to us lawful, effective, effective, enforceable and enforceable? The Temporary Committee points out the issues of legislative quality, which are once again being brought to our attention. Thank you very much for that. The recommendations on this matter appeal to us. On behalf of my group, however, I would like to draw attention to the work done within the permanent finance committee by a working group consisting of Mr De Grave, Mr Van de Ven, Mr Van Rij and Mr Rinnooy Kan. This group suggests, more or less in addition to the recommendations of the temporary committee, a so-called "test on the test." That is to say, a more detailed analysis of the issues of feasibility with questions and concerns that are relevant to Members of Parliament in order to assess the feasibility of the departmental tests or the lack of them. I understand that it is not a new framework or an independent performance test of the First Chamber, but a hand to the members to question the author of a bill, whether it is the government or a initiator of the Second Chamber, critically about the feasibility of the bill and to prepare him or her in advance. Such a generic framework could also be supported by outside experts. At committee level, a more specific interpretation could then be made, depending on the rule complex that is at issue in that committee, tax legislation, for example, or regulation in the educational domain. I would welcome this exercise being undertaken along the lines advocated by the working party, and I propose to the temporary committee and to the Chamber in general that this should be seen as a proper follow-up to the report of the temporary committee, following on from the recommendations on this subject which the whole Chamber should be able to endorse. If it would be procedurally desirable, I would like to encourage an address to the House on this subject, albeit by limiting the number of motions. But I really hope this isn't necessary. Positive reactions from colleagues and from the temporary committee seem to me to be more than sufficient! Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few brief comments on the role of research and its involvement in European initiatives, guidelines and regulations. Let me start with that last one. The Temporary Committee draws attention to the attention and energy already devoted by the Chamber and the political groups to the European dossiers. That is indeed quite a lot and the staff of the First Chamber are working overtime at this point. As far as my group is concerned, too, the principles of 2009 underlying the European approach are still right. However, my group has some hesitation in the recommendations of the Temporary Committee to systematically prepare all Council agendas and all Council reports and to request quarterly reports on the conduct of negotiations, including detailed reports on the negotiations and possible impact assessments. The extension of the role of the PV of the States-General in Brussels also goes a long way. Does this still have a reasonable and real role to play in the First Chamber? For my group, independent democratic decision-making and control is at the forefront of the European Parliament. In addition, the political primacy of the Lower House applies to decision-making that passes through the Dutch legal order. I wonder in my mind how big and activist the task of the Supreme Court should be here. Independently, yes, very quirky, but I would like to do so in the context of the distribution of roles of the various parliaments. I am less reluctant about the investigative function of the First Chamber. I think we could even sail a little sharper there. Of course, we Members of Parliament are limited by the time and resources available, but perhaps we are otherwise better equipped for parliamentary research than the House of Representatives, where party politics and the delusion of the day, let me put it this way, prevail more than here. If parliamentary research is aimed at a certain distance and objectivity towards the effect or the desirability of legislation or framework in important social areas, then I would like to support this Chamber's more active attitude. The work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation and Self-determination, chaired by Mr Kuiper five, six years ago, proves the usefulness of this active attitude. Of course we must know our limitations. A large parliamentary survey, for example on Dutch policy on Indonesia's police actions and independence, does not fit in with the role and possibilities of the First Chamber. But that is not necessarily said for subjects such as the drafting of national police legislation, to mention yet another completely arbitrary example. My group will, in any case, take an alert proactive stance on this point. Research pays in general, including for and through this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The temporary committee recommends holding so-called thematic debates. These would stand out from the current policy debates. If I'm being honest, I don't have that significant distinction in mind yet. Some of the policy debates that have taken place in recent years have also had a clear focus and a certain degree of jointness, for example the policy debates on the state of the Kingdom and the Kingdom's relations and various episodes of the annual European Reviews. The format and the corresponding restrictions that the temporary committee now intends to introduce are less appealing to my group, but of course we do not want to stand in the way of consensus in the Chamber on this point. Personally, I would also like every minister to be questioned by this Chamber at least once on the broad lines of his policy and legislative programme during a cabinet term. That seems all the more logical to me now that the First Chamber largely refrains from annual budgetary treatment. Finally, support for political groups and individual MPs. I fear that, in the light of the sincere compliments I was allowed to make to the temporary committee earlier, I am particularly critical of the recommendations in this regard. As far as my group is concerned, the Registry has been calculated excellently for its task, and I am happy to bow to that. In addition, in recent years, the introduced applications have greatly improved the flow of information and the search function. In my view, however, there is no reason to maintain the editing of political groups and Members at the present economical level, and I would almost say that they are kneel. I do not believe that there is a parliament in the world where Members and groups are left to their own fate as this Chamber does. The group allowances are, as the temporary committee writes, sufficient to cover the costs currently borne by the political groups. That is a correct conclusion, but not very relevant either, since the groups naturally spend according to the measure of their remuneration. The more relevant question is whether this remuneration is sufficient to really support the political groups and Members. Of my ten-member group's budget, a member of the political group can be paid, but not full-time and not with proper retirement provision. Furthermore, against an almost shameful fee of only a few hundred euros a month, we can have two trainees rotating at academic level and the budget is almost up. There is in fact no room for research, the organisation of expert meetings, electronic equipment for the group employee, group meetings or support on specific subjects. I have just looked in the annex at how Members feel about the group budgets in the survey. A majority of 55.2% think it is too low or too low. Nevertheless, nothing will happen to it. Only the recommendation is made that we should have drawing rights for trainees: a small sum of €50,000 for all political groups together for these drawing rights. That is really not enough. Mr. Chairman. It's actually a choice. The work of MPs will not be any less. It gets even more complicated sometimes. It's also getting more international. The First Chamber members have only limited time to do so because it is not a full-time function. We shouldn't want to. The fees are not aimed at either. We have to keep it that way, but we will have to be better equipped in the future. Self-reliance is a good principle for this Chamber. I like to endorse that, but that too has its limits. I would therefore really like to call for an increase in the group budgets. Democracy is not a cheap truth. We shouldn't pursue that either. My group would like the House's Committee and the College of Seniors to reconsider the group budgets and, by way of derogation from the recommendations of the temporary committee, to propose a reasonable increase in the estimate. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear the reaction of the committee and, of course, of the other groups to my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u28	Thank you, Mr De Graaf. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u29	Madam President. Usually it goes wrong when the butcher approves his own meat, but fair is fair: this time it went well, perhaps because the whole butcher's company was involved. Compliments and many thanks to the committee and to the official support. The Committee presents a fairly complete picture of the procedure of the Chamber and presents a set of recommendations which the SGP Group can support in general. Therefore, I am only going to deal with a few points which raise questions for my group, such as the extra budget for trainees. Isn't that a hidden route to raise the group budget and should we just do it directly? Another point is the introduction of thematic debates. That is fine in itself, but does that mean that the possibility of the policy debate as a whole, as we know it now? My next question is about Europe. My group does not need any additional Permanent Representative of the States General (PVSG). Is it not easy to solve this problem through targeted working arrangements with the joint PVSG, as Mrs Jorritsma and Mr De Graaf pointed out? The temporary committee will come forward with a proposal on held motions. That is right, because a motion that stays above the market is not a pretty sight. My group can therefore very well live with some sort of limitation. Rule 93 (3) of the Rules of Procedure states that it shall be put to the vote within six months. If not, I quote: 'the motion shall be deemed to have lapsed unless the Chamber decides otherwise'. This wording raises a number of questions. On what criteria should the Court decide otherwise? Is such a decision taken by an absolute majority? Will the initiative for renewal lie with the applicant? If so, should there not be a minor addition to the text, namely: "[...] the motion is deemed to have lapsed unless the Chamber decides otherwise after a reasoned request from the applicant"? Is the temporary committee open to further clarification of the text or does it not think that this is necessary? I like to hear that. Madam President, now there is a more fundamental point. The temporary committee rightly notes that the consultative referendum should not interfere with the legislative process, partly by focusing on two dates for the adoption of laws: 1 January and 1 July. I now understand that Christian Union, VVD, CDA and also D66 want to put an end to the referendum. Well, the SGP will not have any strong opposition on this point. But until it is settled, it might be wise to reach agreements with the new government on increasing the number of moments of implementation. Does the Temporary Committee see that as well and is it prepared to promote this? Of course, not everything has been said about this. For as much as the abolition of the referendum has our approval, the SGP Group does not close its eyes to the fact that many people in our country do not feel well represented. The State Commission, by Mr Remkes, has already made an initial report on this issue. That's understandable. There is a certain tension between the points of focus on legislative quality, which have been re-appointed here, and the political reality. How do we deal with that as a room? Apparently, a referendum is not the answer to the concerns about our democratic rule of law, but what is? Madam President. We do not organise society's trust by brushing up our Rules of Procedure again, because society is deeper. That is why a political culture based on values is important. For this Chamber, these values should be consistent with the review of laws on legality, enforceability and enforcement. The temporary committee has repeatedly referred to these terms. Righteousness is part of justice. In case of feasibility, the value of integrity fits. In terms of enforcement, I am thinking of transparency. Justice, integrity and transparency: just three values on which politicians may be called in the performance of the high office to which they have committed an oath or promise. Madam President. Justice, integrity and transparency. If these values were to decorate the procedure of the First Chamber, the conclusions and recommendations of the Temporary Committee would really come to life. I look forward to the response of the temporary committee. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Strik for her commitment to the small groups, because I understand that she will not be present later on in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Madam President. As is well known, the Freedom Party is in favour of abolishing the First Chamber, but as long as this Chamber is still there, it is not wrong to take a critical look at our methods. I would therefore like to thank the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber for its work and its clear report, which can also function as reference work. The report contains several recommendations, which the PVV group can support from the bank. Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the paragraph "Political culture in the First Chamber" states that all subjects can be discussed in the Chamber. This seems to be an open door, but apparently this was not always self-evident. But it seems that the Members of Parliament will deal with this less crampedly. With various major debates ahead, this invites a lively debate. Mr. Chairman. Currently, the committee's point of departure is to avoid the systematic use of procedures for political purposes. The committee gives examples of long speaking time and long explanations of vote. I would like to add: long lead times. I am referring to the deliberate omission of legislative proposals, such as the Forensic Care Bill. This bill has been in the Upper House for five years. That's not really good for the appearance of this chambre de réflexion. It seems that the rate of treatment is directly proportional to the political will. Does the committee agree that this point is also covered by the systematic use of procedures for political purposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mrs Faber says that we deliberately leave legislative proposals to be dealt with. That's right, because we decide that ourselves, but she's referring to the Forensic Care Bill. Well, a whole stretch has been agreed on this and nowhere in that whole process have I seen just one remark from the PVV that she did not agree with that. So you have deliberately chosen to do so, and there were good reasons for choosing to do so. But you are now saying in accusing terms: this room is leaving something behind. No, you've agreed to it every time. Nowhere is a letter, a syllabe that the PVV disagrees. So you really shouldn't bring that in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u33	I would like to respond to this as follows. I'm pointing out what it's unleashed in society. Everyone knows what I'm talking about. That won't stop the PVV from accelerating on this file. It is true what Mr. Kox says: there have been agreements made on it in committee. There's been a change of circumstances. It has been said in committee that we would prefer to deal with it together with two other legislative proposals. I hear Mr Kox saying "three." I say, with two other legislative proposals. So I'm talking about three legislative proposals. Then we see something happening in society. Citizens in the country don't understand. They do not understand that a particular bill, in this case the Forensic Care Act, remains so long. It is also said that in the Lower House these three legislative proposals have been dealt with at different times. We are talking about 2012, 2015 and 2017. So what the Lower House can do, so can we.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u34	If citizens ask you or us about this, would it not be nice if you say or we say: we understand your question, but we have decided it together? The PVV, the SP and everything in between have therefore taken this decision. You should not pretend that the PVV has taken a different position on this matter. On the contrary, your group did not say once that it wanted a different method of working on this dossier. I checked the file. When we are asked questions as representatives of the people, we also have a duty to give an honest answer, and not the easy, opportunistic answer: if you think it is, we will deal with it next week. Mrs Faber said, as long as the First Chamber exists, we must do our job well. I think that is also true of this point. I think it's a faux pass to suggest that this Chamber left this bill for bad reasons. And it's quite bad to suggest that the fraction of the PVV was out there. The fraction of PVV has simply participated in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. Those are Mr. Kox's words. There are sometimes changing circumstances and sometimes you just have to anticipate them. I think Mr. Kox does that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u36	Yet just in front of the picture of what we are doing here in this Chamber. Of course, it's terrible what happened. We all know what the facts are. There has also been a reconstruction of these laws that you mention, which have had a long duration here. But that wasn't in the First Chamber. There has been a ruler who has said: I take it back for a moment. A reconstruction has been made by our President, which has shown exactly what is going on here. I would like to ask you: do you not agree with that letter, in which it has been precisely reconstructed and which shows that it is not this Chamber that has caused delays, but that we are simply following our procedures and working carefully, as we always do? Do you renounce the letter from the President of this Chamber in which that reconstruction was written?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. I'm addressing you right now, because you wrote the letter. You answered a question from the President of the House of Representatives. And technically, that letter is correct. I never denied that either. I never said it wouldn't be right. But the point is, of course, the following. It is true that in 2014, after the first term of the Chamber, the Minister asked for the bill to be retained. Well, as a room, we are quite man enough to be able to accelerate on that. After all, we are dealing with our own agenda. In addition, there are changing circumstances. Well, then it's got to be negotiable, right? Just discussable! I have put forward a request to bring forward the examination of a bill. It was a legislative proposal that caused unrest in Dutch society. It is quite natural for a representative of the people to anticipate this and request that only a request be made that the bill be dealt with earlier? There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u38	Finally, Mr Kuiper, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mrs Faber, like all of us here in this House, knows that it doesn't matter whether we treat him or later in January for the introduction of that law. Now you're working on the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u40	Mr Kuiper says: you are working for the stage. No, I'm working for our supporters, too. It causes unrest in the country and the people in the country do not understand anything about it. They don't understand anything about this. Then it's perfectly normal for you to respond to that. The President's letter is technically correct; there is nothing to be done. But it is perfectly normal for people to react to feelings in society, because after all, we are representatives of the people. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. I do not go into all the details and recommendations that the PVV Group agrees with. In the report, however, two recommendations state the footnote that the PVV, through Senator Van Strien, does not agree with that recommendation. I will explain this in a moment. We are critical of the additional permanent representative of the States General (PVSG) in Brussels. We really should not have the illusion that an additional official will shed light on the dark caverns of European decision-making. And it won't be the extra official. Actually, the appointment of an additional PVSG is a form of self-tasting. Mr. Chairman. Groups are free to facilitate internships. In the perspective of the PVV, the group budget is more than sufficient to finance internships. There are groups that already offer internships. They seem to think this is important, and they are already making financial resources available. With the right prioritization, it can already be done. The propensity is always more. But less is often also an option. The PVV Group therefore does not see fit to create a separate cost item for the appointment of trainees. Mr President, I will conclude. The PVV Group looks forward to the committee's reply and thanks her once again for her commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, my group would also like to thank the chairman and members of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber for their efforts and the high quality of the work that has been done. Staff also deserve a great deal of appreciation for their indispensable contributions. This underlines once again that we as the First Chamber are blessed with an excellent support official organisation. That is at least one of the results that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance shares with the committee. In particular, on behalf of our group, I would also like to express my thanks for the confidence that smaller groups have given by having our group chairman represent themselves in this committee. My group agrees with a large part of the committee's recommendations. This is partly due to the fact that the committee has been extensively oriented, including through a comprehensive survey with a high response, and by consulting with the administrative support. A beautiful form of an interactive working method. Greetings for that! As far as my group is concerned, the committee has imposed a justified restriction by looking primarily for improvements in working methods, which we ourselves can make without legislative changes or very large changes to regulations. We recognize the committee's observation that much of what we do, how we do it and how we deal with each other, is more a matter of culture and unwritten mores than of compliance with regulations. We are a political legislative and supervisory body that can and must make choices; the lock on the door to ensure that legislation is in order and that laws are enforceable, enforceable, lawful and effective. In addition, in the absence of a subsequent constitutional test in our Constitution, the First Chamber is de facto the last body to carry out an ex ante review of higher legislation such as the Constitution and European legislation in the case of legislative proposals. This means that our review focuses above all on assessing the quality, consistency and coherence of the legislative process as a whole. At the same time, we also check whether legislation does what it promises and whether the implementation is consistent with what is intended; not day by day, but with the essence. Indeed, this is a culture that is less based on day-to-day political sharpening and more of careful scrutiny from a longer-term perspective and wider consideration. The existing implicit culture of unwritten rules of conduct, including a certain courtesy, secondary action with regard to day-to-day policy discussions and balanced consultation and giving each other procedural space and giving each other procedural space, is also appreciated by my group. However, there is also a point to be made here. Any culture that is implicit carries the danger of a certain inversion or even complacency in the long run. This can unnecessarily increase the distance from society, which we as a political body ultimately represent. My group therefore supports the proposed periodic reflection on our own working methods. This does not necessarily have to be done every year, but may also take the form of a midterm review. However, we would like to ask whether our working methods and culture are sufficiently suited to the expectations and views of the outside world to be part of this reflection. This is how we want to prevent ourselves from being complacent in our ivory tower. Are we sufficiently transparent? Do relevant representations in society find easy access to the First Chamber? Is our work seen and understood in the outside world? Such questions could be presented in the form of a kind of 360° feedback to some MPs, representatives of the press, civil society organisations and the public. Whether the primary roles and tasks of the First Chamber are still in line with the needs of society and the contemporary public administration, which was not part of the mission of this committee. But my group is curious about the findings and views that the State Committee will ultimately give on this issue. Their conclusions can and will ultimately be even more decisive for the tasks or not, working methods and culture of the Upper Chamber. We are also very much looking forward to that debate in due course. Back to the present opinion. As has been said, my group agrees with most of the proposals and recommendations. I do not follow them all, like most groups, but I take a few of them with a few comments here and there. The periodic reflection we have already mentioned, the formalisation of sitting and standing as the main rule in voting and the maximum validity of motions held, are concrete recommendations which are good for inclusion in the Rules of Procedure. Also pressing the government for a better justification of urgency and the request for standard consolidated legal texts for treatment in the First Chamber are good steps towards a more efficient and effective way of working. The latter, of course, require the cooperation of the cabinet. As far as we are concerned, a set of rules of procedure for a parliamentary inquiry is not so necessary. As far as we are concerned, the instrument is rightly being used scarcely. It is therefore my group's preference to make a tailor-made regulation the rare times it occurs. Focus in policy debates, and therefore a good joint committee preparation, appeals to us. Quality of legislation is certainly a guideline, but not the only one. For example, how we relate to European and international treaties and issues, such as the common European foreign and security strategy, is, as far as our group is concerned, an overarching area on which a policy debate can be held in the First Chamber. And from our role as a controlling body, specific policy debates can also focus on specific, more overarching law enforcement issues, such as the way in which independence or withdrawal of public authority takes shape. Focus yes, however, limiting it to mere legislation is too narrow. The recommendation that all committees should examine what their primary focus on legislation and legislative quality means is surprising to us, especially because of the reference to committees such as KOREL, EUZA and BDO. As already mentioned, it is precisely in the international arena that major issues are addressed with far-reaching influence on the role of the Netherlands in the world and on our own legislative process. This gives an integral responsibility to the EUZA commission in its review and control role, regardless of the responsibility of each committee to be alert in its own field. Too far away from what is happening in Europe is at odds with the tasks and responsibilities of the First Chamber. In addition, my group has no indication that committees are already overexciting this. Our experience is that usually a considered consideration is made in the setting of subjects and that primarily in policy issues the primacy is left to the House of Representatives anyway. Once upon a time, however, we agree with the recommendation that priority should be given to European issues. It'll help with the treatment. We also support the proposal to strengthen the Permanent Representative of the States-General in Europe by means of a second FTE, specifically aimed at supporting the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of the general rule that committee meetings are public. The distinction between a substantive meeting and a procedural meeting is artificial and will not be made clear in practice. The mere fact that few people will be interested in our procedural meetings is no reason for my group to keep it decided. Mr President, we have an excellent Registry, but the supporting budgets for the political groups, on average less than €5,000 per senator, are, however, rather modest, if not kneel, as Mr De Graaf said. I haven't looked into it, but I don't think any parliament is gonna do that to us. We therefore support the proposal for an internship pool from which groups can draw. We will not immediately call for a further increase in the support budget, but we will immediately critically examine in the outcome of the State Committee what tasks and responsibilities are assigned to the First Chamber and what support might be included. Democracy is a great asset and must be worth something to society, in all the austerity that is appropriate. Legislation and control of the government are too important to be in the First and Second Chambers for a dime in the first grade. And for the record, I am not talking about the allowances for the members of the States-General themselves, but about the quality and extent of appropriate support for the political groups. Finally, a small heart cry of a very different order. The PerfectView app can't go on. We need to communicate with that in a different way. I look forward to the committee's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber. My group is extremely grateful to the members of the committee and the Registry, the official support, for their efforts. The committee has been very thorough, with officially prepared start notes, a note with quantitative analyses of the functioning of the First Chamber over the past fifteen years, a comprehensive questionnaire among the members as well as input from the staff of the First Chamber. And the result is very nuanced. The PvdA attaches great importance to the strengthening of the co-legislative and supervisory role of this Chamber. We note that the committee has noted that a large number of procedures and procedures are going well, but at the same time it sees room for improvement. That space should be provided by adapting either the Rules of Procedure or the internal procedures. In addition, political culture and mores deserve constant attention. We very much support the committee's recommendation that the Chamber should periodically reflect on the functioning of the Chamber and its political culture, irrespective of its topicality. My group supports the proposed changes and modernisation of the Rules of Procedure and the internal working methods. Think of a separate parliamentary investigation regime, the handling of European issues and the provision of information on legislative proposals. Mr. Chairman. On a number of points, however, my group would have liked to see more movement. Although the Constitution does not explicitly prescribe this, my group assumes that the First Chamber aims to function as complementary as possible to the Second Chamber. In other words, when considering proposals for new EU legislation, the First Chamber has an entirely independent and simultaneous role to play, in parallel with that of the Second Chamber. In practice that has developed in recent years, the complementary role in the formulation of national legislation, in any case, is to ensure that the First Chamber is primarily committed to checking legality, effectiveness, objective achievement and feasibility of legislation. However, practice shows that sometimes the Senate repeats the work and judgment of the House of Representatives and that sometimes there seems to be almost exclusively a political review. My group is therefore in favour of further strengthening and ensuring the complementarity of the work of the First Chamber. We would like to focus on this in the regular discussions on political culture and mores. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that the First Chamber is often at its best when it highlights relevant aspects of a legislative proposal that have not been exchanged or have not been sufficiently exchanged in the previous debate, and when there is a great deal of consensus on it. The European Parliament works with rapporteurs to this end. These are Members of the European Parliament who are responsible for dealing with the content of legislative proposals, other documents of the European Commission or specific subjects. A rapporteur shall inform the European Parliament of his findings by presenting a report at the meeting of the specialist committee and the plenary debate. As a result of this reporting, the European Parliament is better placed to hold a focused debate on a subject. We understand that the Temporary Working Method Committee of the First Chamber may not have considered it its task to consider the appointment of rapporteurs in the First Chamber. My group considers it valuable to explore the added value of this way of working. We are also well aware of the limitations of this method. My group therefore advocates the examination of variants, which allow cooperation and deepening in the First Chamber. The power of cooperation within the Upper Chamber is also potentially valid for the conduct of research. The investigation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Self-Authorisation/Privatisation Public Services is an example of this. My group agrees with the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber that parliamentary investigations by the First Chamber will produce the most if they are carried out only exceptionally. Mr. Chairman. The members of the First Chamber are part-time politicians and are not supported in their work, except for group support. This means that members have to do their work in a limited time frame and without help. This differs greatly from the situation in the Lower House and raises the question of whether the required review of the law can be carried out sufficiently carefully and in depth. This point weighs extra heavy for small fractions. My group would have liked to see a further strengthening of support for Members of Parliament. We welcome the proposal to provide a modest budget for the adoption of trainees for the support of political groups, but think that this proposal is rather modest. The introduction of new safety requirements for internal digital traffic and the purchase of the necessary new communication equipment also reduces the scope of their digital work, together with an unprecedented cost item. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber whether he can and would like to put on the agenda of the Household Committee that group staff have adequate tools for their digital work and access to these tools. Mr. Chairman. The committee concludes in its final report that better information by the government on feasibility and enforcement of legislative proposals is desirable. My group has previously called on the government to include changes to future legislative paths as a result of novelles standard in a consolidated legislative text, thereby making clear the changes to the original legislative proposal associated with the novelle. This motion also called on the government to promote appropriate arrangements in the future to make legislative changes to the original legislative text and any novelles available to all stakeholders. In addition, my group considers it desirable to have a consolidated explanation by default when a legislative proposal has been substantially amended during the debate in the House of Representatives. This not only improves the work of this Chamber, but also gives clarity to stakeholders. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber whether he can and will put on the agenda of the Housely Committee that we should reach an orderly, clear legislative proposal with a consolidated explanation of the choices made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u45	I would like to ask Mrs Sent who would be responsible for this explanation. It is often about amendments that have been accepted in the Lower House, often against the will of the government. So who exactly are you asking for an explanation, which is actually a defence and not just an objective explanation, of the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u46	I ask for an explanation from the government of the choices. And I understand that, of course, there are limitations there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u47	Then we ask the government to explain why the amendment it was against was accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u48	Or novelles. And the government is not always against the amendments. However, it will benefit our treatment if we have a clear view of the government's position on the various adjustments and if a consolidated explanation can be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u49	Still a little while. I fully understand the consolidated legal text; it is quite clear that there is already an amendment in it and that you can see what has been amended. But if you simply follow the debate in the Chamber and explain the amendments, you can already see exactly what the reason for the changes to the law is. It seems to me that it would be more interesting to look again at whether there is, in addition, more or less coherent legislation. Then you could also ask for an opinion from the Council of State. Surely that makes more sense than asking one of the legislative partners for consolidated legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u50	Yes, sometimes we also ask the Council of State for advice on amendments. I think that's added value. At the same time, however, I believe that a consolidated explanatory statement would benefit our work. Not that this improves all the work, but I do think that this could improve our work. Mr. Chairman. In its second progress report of 10 October, the Implementation Review Working Group of the Finance Committee made a number of recommendations for the further elaboration of this recommendation. My group supports this working group's proposal to organise a wide-ranging expert meeting on the available framework for assessing feasibility. Finally, I would like to challenge the chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber briefly to reflect on how the world around us is changing and on its consequences for the way in which the First Chamber operates. A little in line with the point made earlier by Mr De Graaf: we are very inclined to think that in the current circumstances what we are doing is good. But what challenges are coming? Should we pre-sort, for example, on digitisation and social media, on such changes? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u51	We've planned to end up at about ten o'clock tonight. I hope you'll take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u52	Sure. Sure. I'm rounding up. Where the Temporary Working Method Committee of the First Chamber has limited itself to what can be regulated in the Rules of Procedure, and in internal agreements or in agreements with the Government, the State Committee on Parliamentary System has a broader remit. Thanks for the work done by the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber, my group looks forward to the possible further amendments proposed by the Remkes Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is actually a nice picture to see the whole government table filled by representatives of the people. It could produce a newspaper photo, in the vein of "Parliament takes over power now that we have no government temporarily." Because the current government is now very decommissioning. But, yeah, that wouldn't be true. Nevertheless, it looks nice; we do not only like the view of the committee but also the work done by this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u55	Even now, women are outnumbered, you can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u56	That's a question of quantitative assessment, but qualitatively... And Mrs Strik is there for a lot of groups, so eventually... It has already been recalled by the committee that it is a derived committee of a much larger one, which must also do much larger and important work, namely to review our parliamentary system in order to see if it can be brought to a better conclusion. A wish which my group and my party have been expressing for many years, because we believe that our parliamentary system has once been set up for good reasons as it has been set up, but therefore does not remain obliged to remain the same forever. But we're not talking about that committee right now. We'll get to that. I would like to thank Roel Kuiper and Thom de Graaf for the preparatory work for this committee and thank the committee for the good work that has been done. The central question here is whether the First Chamber can do its job better in the circumstances, so the First Chamber as we now have it. Thom de Graaf asked whether we are not too conservative, whether we are not satisfied with what we have because we have nothing else. He quoted Augustine. Let me quote the apostle Paul: if it ain't broken, don't fix it. He said it differently, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u57	I thought there would be a very nice Catholic pronunciation, but I don't think I should attribute this to the Apostle Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u58	But this is a bit of the arrogant Dutch. The Apostle Paul didn't speak Dutch either. That spoke something and that actually came down to this and that is why I thought: let's give an internationalist translation of his pronunciation. In the years I've been here, I've become very convinced that what works well doesn't necessarily have to change. What's good is good. I also share Thom de Graaf's view that you should be able to look critically, but I think that the bigger critical look should be done by the state committee. As I have said, I think that there could be some major steps. I am just passing through some of the recommendations on which I would like to make a comment. It's good to look back every year and look ahead to see if we're doing well and if we can do better. I think that would be very useful. In the past, I believe there have been times to do so, and why not do so in the future? Adjusting voting procedures, sitting and standing, seems logical and good to me. I'm afraid it's an exceptional mood. I really don't agree with what Jan Nagel says about pairing. I really think that's playing Lower House. You don't have to. I find it annoying if a bill should be passed or rejected because one of our Members cannot be here, because he is sick at home in bed or because he is doing something for this Chamber. We shouldn't do that. I also think that the soup will not be eaten as hot as Jan has served it at this point, because he can get in trouble with it himself. I am curious to see how it will work after a six-month delay in the holding of motions. That could be good. I don't think we're having much trouble right now. I do remember that we sometimes held motions to get a broader consensus here, which turned out very well. I refer to the motion by Mr Bastian van Apeldoorn on research into child poverty. After a number of months of arrest, it led to a splendid report by the ESC and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and a big debate across the street with 14 motions and new initiatives. Let's see how it works, but I don't consider this note to be a law of Medes and Persians: that we're going to do everything here and not otherwise. Here we can almost say lubberian: working road we will see what works well and what does not. I think it is right that we should take it upon ourselves to look more closely at what happens to the implementation of motions. We'll keep track, but we can do better. I refer to the motion which we have adopted here on the examination of what should be a social minimum in the Antilles. It takes a very long time for the government to work on that. I very much agree with everyone who says that we should not take too many motions here, so as not to take away the power of that. But above all, we must insist that if this Chamber makes a ruling, it is the government's intention to do so. Consolidated legal texts. I'm very much in favour of us doing that. I understand what Mrs Sent is proposing, but it is a bit problematic. Thom de Graaf also says something about this: who should give that appreciation? But I am in favour, my group is in favour, of doing everything that can make our work clearer and faster. I think we can come to a conclusion on how best to do that there too. I think it is very sensible that we should include in our Rules of Procedure how we can possibly conduct our parliamentary inquiry and our parliamentary inquiry. The first research we did really tasted like more: Roel Kuipers' research, also famous outside this Chamber. I do not think that we should be too limited. We can say "we shouldn't do that too much," but we only did it once. Thom de Graaf mentioned a number of issues that are still very appropriate for this Chamber to conduct a parliamentary inquiry if we deliver the quality that the Kuiper Committee has delivered. I find it a little cold feet when a committee says: focus on legislation, beware of policy. None of that is necessary. It is not the case that we are sitting here for weeks in policy debates. We do a few of those debates every year, but only a few, and I think we have been doing that for years. We can no longer call them 'policy debate' but 'theme debate', but I do not think any of that is necessary. I do not think that this Chamber should confine itself. The Constitution says very little about us. We do what we do. We do what we feel like doing. If we don't do something, we don't do anything and we want to debate all week, then we can debate all week. I think the method we're using now is good. I refer to the theme debate or the policy debate on the state of the rule of law, a gem, with the preparation and the debates we have had here on a number of international issues. Excellent to do. Let us not say to ourselves 'beware that we are not going to do too many of those kinds of debates', because we simply do not do that. It all has to fit in one day anyway. I guess I don't need that cold feet. I say that also because I have some difficulty with expressions such as those of Sophie van Bijsterveld, who said that the political primate lies across the street. There is nowhere in the Constitution that there is a political primacy of the House of Representatives. It's what it is. We have two rooms. From one we have made a full-time parliament and from the other a part-time parliament. Within these broad frameworks, these parliaments must do what they think is right. And again, the method to date has not been such that I sit here every week, of: young boy, what are we doing? If that were the case with other colleagues, it may of course be that our assessment is not good, but I think that this Chamber is operating very well in general. I'm very opposed to us restricting ourselves too much, without any reason. I am very much in favour of making our committee meetings public. Not that I'm expecting a rush, but I don't think a parliament can afford not to be public. When I made my first speech here in 2003, I said to the Candidate Chamber Chairmen: Shall we do so, all in public? No one was against that, but we are now 14 years ahead and we are still getting a bit of a bumpy wording. Publicity was once, in the time before the iPad, I see Thom de Graaf already coming to walk that you should be able to sit down. Well, I don't expect people from Tilburg to travel all the way here to see a committee meeting, but these meetings can be followed everywhere. You can do that in a committee room. I am therefore in favour of simply saying 'our committee meetings are public, unless', as the House of Representatives does. I do not think we should distinguish ourselves from the House of Representatives here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u59	It is not a point of principle to me. I understand the principle that you should do it publicly. Unless, of course, there's already some discussion. What's "unless"? If you make public the procedure meetings that are meant to make appointments, and also no more than that, about planning and time, that can be done via an audio connection or a digital connection, then you will create, something you also see in the Lower House, that those procedural meetings become more political. You have to realize that. That could be the consequence if we all agree on that. My question to Mr Kox is: what about the College of Seniors? Would you like to make that public, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u60	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u61	Is this not a much more important decision-making body in a number of cases than the procedural meetings of committees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u62	It's not about the matter of importance. We'll work on that. I do not know any parliament that has a public presidency. Because I don't think I'm too smart, I think: if that's nowhere, we shouldn't put it in here either. But committee meetings can, in my view, be public. As far as I'm concerned, it's okay to put everything on television, but something that doesn't exist anywhere else, you don't have to introduce it first. But that could be my innate conservative nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u63	Sometimes that has added value, I admit! But my last question was exactly what would be the profit in Tiny Kox's eyes if we made the procedural meeting public. Apart from the principle, what happens more is that citizens could give an insight into the functioning of democracy or parliament? That's what I'm asking myself. As I said, I have no fundamental problem with it. It is more the question: what is the added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u64	I'd rather turn it around: what would be worse about it? The Lower House has all its meetings in public unless, because a committee can always decide to do something. Then I think: the First Chamber doesn't have to be less at that point. Also, all meetings of the House of Representatives are not followed by large groups. But the rule is that parliament is public. Here we need to speak in public and the committee meetings are an important part of our work, even if they are too short or too long, according to Jan Nagel; I do not know exactly. But I think they are an important part of our work and should therefore, in principle, be public. Nothing else changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u65	We have seen procedures being used politically. Mr Kox will remember that too; I think it was in the Rutte I cabinet in his after-hours. That happens, for example, stretching or delaying laws. Then it is very important for the outside world to be able to see who is politically operating with procedures and how they are doing. That shouldn't be shielded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u66	I don't bring it all that hard. I said that when I arrived here in 2003, I did not understand why our committee meetings are not in principle public and that of the House of Representatives. There wasn't much resistance at the time, but we just didn't do it. The argument was: our building is not suitable for that. In the meantime, the technique has advanced so that the building does not have to be the obstacle anymore. But I do not believe that in our committee meetings all tricks are being used because they are decided. No, I do not see what Mr Nagel is sketching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr President, I should like to take a look at you, but as far as I know, all the procedural meetings in the House of Representatives are not public at all. - By now? - Yeah. Are they even public?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u68	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u69	Okay. By the way, I know exactly how they are used politically; that is almost never by the coalition, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u70	In any case, they are not so striking that Mrs Jorritsma knows that they have been out there for a long time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u71	I am also very happy to look forward to the opening up of our committee meetings, because I know how they work, and that is extremely interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u72	It's just a proposal. I understand Jan Nagel would like to make a motion on that. I'd like to sign it. I think it's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u73	Two cases. I think Mr Nagel's interruption just now shows that when you make the procedural meetings public, you will be given an extra political dimension. That's one. The second concerns what the committee proposes on the so-called substantive meetings. Compared to the House of Representatives, we naturally have relatively few oral consultations, for example, with the Minister. When we finally decide on an oral consultation, at least in the committees I am a member of, it is often the case that we want to hear a little more from the Minister, something he might find more difficult to say in a written reply. If you then have the starting point that those meetings are public, then you really have to make a decision that they have been decided. Don't you just put some more secrecy at that meeting, which otherwise isn't there at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u74	It could all be, but I'm not so afraid of all that. We are a parliament. We are speaking on behalf of the people with the government, and this can be done in public. As has already been said, I do not expect storms, but everyone to sit in front of television when the EUZA committee is back in session. I just think it's better to do it like this. And one more time: what the Lower House can do, we don't have to leave. I have two comments to make, Madam President. One on European regulation. For years now, I have been concerned that we are not doing what we promise to our people, namely to follow and judge European legislation very well. We promised that after the referendum on the European Constitution, we all meant that, but we are not making that happen. Maybe it's too big for that, too. Well, that cannot be resolved in the context of this committee, that is what the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure should look at. But I do think that we should not restrict ourselves further than is necessary. The Committee now proposes that the House of Representatives and the Government should first give an opinion on European regulations, followed by the First Chamber. But the time constraints are such that I don't think it's gonna work out. This Chamber has an independent position with regard to European legislation. That is not because we want to do so, but because in Brussels our First Chamber is judged exactly as the Second Chamber. I would not like to impose any self-restraint on us here either. It is very nice if the First Chamber comes very quickly with a judgment and the government comes very quickly with an appreciation, but for the past thirteen years it has not given me the feeling that it will have to come from there. Most of the time, we're faster. I would like to make a final comment on the question of finance. I think it is excellent if we hire trainees, and I think we can do that very well from the budget we have. I do not think that the budget should be increased. Perhaps the most charming thing about this Chamber is that we are all politicians. If we're here to talk to each other, we've all had to think of it ourselves, we've all had to study it ourselves. We often sit in this Chamber because we have learned elsewhere in society or elsewhere in politics that we can. We do not let others prepare it, we all do it ourselves. And that is perhaps the charm of this small part-time parliament. I agree with Thom de Graaf: I do not know a parliament that has less support than this parliament. But perhaps that is that this Parliament is generally not so badly appreciated in Europe. Here politicians are debating legislative proposals that have already been dealt with by another parliament; we are looking at them again. I do not see the advantage of further professionalising this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u75	No misunderstanding, because it could be inferred from the words of Tiny Kox that I believe that the contributions to the parliamentary debate can now be written by officials or officials. That's not what I mean, of course. But when it comes to just getting some more room to get things sorted out properly, having the opportunity to organise an expert meeting, that also costs money, I'd like to have some more of that. And if that means that you can just get an intern more or just have a little more room in your budget to organize that sort of thing, my group would very much welcome that. This is without prejudice to the fact that politicians themselves have to make their own texts. If they are helped by others, that is fine, but not that others take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u76	As long as we agree that the most important thing for my group is that the special feature of this Chamber should remain, that is to say, here we are doing it ourselves, in limited time with limited resources. I do not think that affects quality, but it promotes quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u77	Mr Kox says in about two paragraphs in a row that we are actually not fulfilling our European control and co-legislative task, and then he wonders why we should actually need more support. Well, if you put these two things together, I have a task where some support might help to increase the transparency of what is coming from Europe and get a bit faster look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u78	I can understand that, but that problem is really much bigger. If we want to follow European rules in the way we follow Dutch rules, we have promised them all, all parties, to the voters at some point, and this will result in a total transformation of this parliament. That is why my group has stressed that the State Committee on Parliament's system should look at this in particular. How should the Dutch Parliament function in a situation where we have de facto become a state of the European Union, whether we like it or not? Much more needs to be done for that. If we really want to make that happen, then the support of this Chamber or of the States-General will really have to be much greater. We can't solve that with an extra man or woman in Brussels or an extra employee here. Then we'll fool ourselves again, and I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u79	Finally, Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u80	Here too, it is a question of proportionality. I do not call for the European Parliament to be imitated immediately. If you're asking what additional support would be needed, I have a first direction indicator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u81	Yeah, but you can't fill a bucket with a shovel of water. You really need more than that. I do not see the proposal for larger budgets to do that kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber for its work. It may have been called a 'temporary committee', but every week we saw in our agendas a rather small block where that temporary committee needed time. I very much appreciate the length of time you have been wanting to spend in this area. There is now a clear and conscientious report with generally sensible recommendations that will take us as a Chamber further in our own functioning and in our perception of our role and task. The latter also contributes to the brief reflection on the political culture of the Upper House. I haven't seen these described like this from the inside before. The committee has risked it. We make political culture together here, but a number of basic attitudes are guarded and the subject of conscious reflection is valuable. This Chamber can be a model of political courtesy. I hope it stays that way. In doing so, she shows that, despite all the differences of opinion between political groups, professional parliamentary practices can still be lively and respectful. My group, and also my party, is in favour of the two-chamber system with its own function for the First Chamber. This Chamber plays an important role in our parliamentary system, sometimes as a sleeper dyke, sometimes as a place of reflection, sometimes as a corrective, sometimes as a place where a political problem is solved outside the spotlight, sometimes as an arena where a political idea is tested and sometimes as a resting place in the parliamentary hectic. These functions, which, in many cases, can only be carried out casually, can only be exercised if they give the political 'primate' to the House of Representatives, Mr Kox, or give the political priority to the House of Representatives. Politics is being made across the street. Here the same policy is reviewed, nuanced, supplemented and developed. To that end, this Chamber shall use the parliamentary powers conferred on it by the Constitution. I would therefore not like to speak of a 'parliamentary imperfection', as I have heard this afternoon. We have our own place, our own competence, which the Constitution assigns to us. That's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u84	I would just like to highlight the fact that I think Mr Kuiper is saying it exactly; that is what I mean. The Lower House has no political primacy over the Upper Chamber, but the Upper Chamber is entitled to give that primacy to the Lower House; that is the assessment we can make. In my view, that is the wording that is acceptable to the Constitution. That other wording, that the House of Representatives has the primacy, we came up with ourselves. The Second Chamber has the primacy if the First Chamber gives it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u85	Agreed. You're right. It is not so designated in the Constitution at all. There are just two chambers, both co-legislator and auditor, with a different set of powers and thus a uniqueness. I think that, in almost 200 years of history, we have gradually struck a certain balance, and also a way in which we do so in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I told you, this Chamber is no less co-legislator and controller of the government than the House of Representatives. Recognition of the role played by the House of Representatives may imply perhaps a little secondary political role, but it is not a brake on the functioning of the House of Representatives as part of Parliament. Political restraint is therefore not the same as parliamentary restraint. The First Chamber has its own parliamentary role to play, in which the quality of legislation in the broad sense of the word has become central over the years, as a focus of the work in this Chamber. The work of the temporary committee is, in a sense, a modest exercise. There was support in this Chamber for the idea of a state committee to review the parliamentary system as a whole. A number of colleagues have already said that the work of the State Committee can lead to even greater considerations, with implications for our working methods. In the meantime, we are considering what we can at least improve and tighten up. We note, however, that our own eyes are guiding in this, and not a consideration of our parliamentary challenge in the light of what we are talking about, and that is where we are coming up with a changed social and political context. This also implies questions about our position and our functioning, but I shall leave that aside now. Mr. Chairman. The recommendations of the Temporary Committee generally have our support. This applies to the recommendations in chapter 2, processes in the First Chamber, and to the recommendations in chapter 3, review in the First Chamber. However, with regard to these chapters in the report, my group would like to point out the following. There is a certain inconsistency in the way in which this Chamber deals with the assessment of legislative quality, for which there is a guidance manual with points of interest, and the assessment of legislative proposals for feasibility and enforcement. For the latter, this Chamber has hardly any instruments. It is dependent on information from outside. It goes without saying that the enforcement and enforcement of laws today is a major issue in our society. I only have to point out recent examples and abuses, for example in the sphere of food safety. It has also been mentioned more often that The Hague reads: Parliament is keen to pursue policy, but is much less interested in its implementation. So that could be different for our Chamber. If the First Chamber raises the feasibility and enforcement of laws to a central theme, then it must invest in them and not be reluctant to do so. Why should this Chamber not be able to carry out more research, particularly in the field of the feasibility and enforcement of laws? The temporary committee believes that this is not possible, but in the opinion of my group it is too clear. This is a matter of ambition with regard to its own parliamentary competence. I have already indicated: that authority is just as there is. I believe that the information needs of the Upper House have increased over the years. On the one hand, it has increased because of the complexity of legislation, but also because of the complex practice in which legislation needs to land. Without getting in the way of the Lower House, the Upper House can certainly do more about this. She can even make it a strong point. Recommendation 2 to Chapter 3 raises the question to the government regarding better information on this feasibility and enforcement of laws, but it should also be a question for ourselves. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the proposal for additional articles in the Rules of Procedure concerning parliamentary surveys and investigations. In 2011, there was a clear omission on this point. This led to the need for a temporary committee led by Frans Leine to consider the procedures. At the time, the parliamentary committee of inquiry itself felt that it had to find a working way of developing a parliamentary inquiry for this Chamber. There was then no survey, which is a much heavier means of hearing it under oath. At that time it was found that a parliamentary inquiry is a very good tool for this Chamber to use. The final report states that the so-called legislative investigation fits this Chamber best. This is an investigation aimed at establishing and implementing or enforcing legislation. In short, this is about legislative quality in the broad sense of the word from design to working in practice. A parliamentary inquiry of this kind responds to the information needs of this Chamber, but also activates a parliamentary role and responsibility that belongs to us. If it is a question of whether legislation actually works in practice as it is intended, this Chamber should be particularly concerned. The public responses to the 2011-2013 study showed that appreciation for this role of the Upper House. It is the First Chamber that attracts it when there are ongoing discussions in society about the impact of legislation, which has finally been adopted here for the last time. The temporary committee is right to say that it is not an aim to carry out this type of parliamentary inquiry more often. But no one's ever said that either. It is a question of this Chamber being able to use a parliamentary instrument that fits its own role and function and thus improves the quality of legislation. That is again a matter of ambition. Whether policy debates become different when they are called thematic debates is hard to say. The temporary committee wants to tighten up the kind of debates that can be referred to under these names. That is why she speaks of thematic debates. The point is indeed that policy and theme debates should have a focus. I think we all know the examples of situations where we think: was there a common direction in a particular policy debate? This is often evaluated as a debate that may not have fully met the objective. But a lot can be agreed on in advance in a committee. Experience has shown that these debates also produce results. It doesn't have to be politically poor. On the contrary, the reflection that this Chamber can bring will have to influence policy. Mr. Chairman. There is something similar about the way in which this Chamber operates with regard to European legislation. Why should this Chamber nuance its own role, as can be seen in the report? Although the temporary committee maintains the agreed European working method and the independent role of this Chamber, it also believes that the cabinet and the House of Representatives can first be waited for, for example, the BNC-fiches. However, the debate over this independent role over the last few years is right, as I see it, that the Chamber should be less dependent on information provided by the Cabinet and that it should take more information from the Commission or from the Council. If it really wants to have influence, it should be more active in the decision-making process. I agree with what Mr Kox has just said. It's our job to do that, but we often don't get to it. But that's different from nuancing our own role. The question remains whether we pay sufficient attention to European legislative processes. I therefore wholeheartedly agree with what I have just heard from Mr Kox. By the way, he is also being assisted by clergy nowadays, I observed on Prince's Day. Mr. Chairman. It has often been found that the First Chamber and the Second Chamber are so adapted to their role in the national legislative process that this extra dimension, the European dimension, also requires a new reflection on role and functioning. Mr Kox said just now: we must wait and see if the state committee notices anything about this. We might have to wait for that. But I agree that, while this Parliament is tailored to national legislation, it is actually quite a tour and requires a whole movement to take the European dimension well into our work processes. It could mean that we need to go much deeper into the European legislative process. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about support. It can and must be extended and strengthened as far as we are concerned. I support Mr De Graaf's plea on this point. We've just run a few more numbers. Our Parliamentary Group has a budget of 1 million. We have a budget of €20,000. That's a factor of 50 difference. For this we can appoint an employee for twelve hours. Just now, Mr De Graaf, in an interruption, gave a definition that could be entirely ours. Of course, parliamentarians have to do their own work here and write their own texts, but there is so much more around them. Think only of e-mail traffic, which has increased, but also of the European dimension of the work, as Mr GroenLinks has just pointed out. As far as we are concerned, extending the possibility of hiring paid trainees does not outweigh the importance of stronger group support. That is why we would like to have more resources in this area. We also wholeheartedly support Mr Sent's comment on staff resources. Mr President, thank you. We look forward to the answers in this case, not the government, but the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks and compliments from the Group of the Party of Animals for the hard work done by the members of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber in addition to their part-time function as a senate, with the support of the official staff. As far as we are concerned, the committee's report bears witness to great care and commitment. It is good to see that the members of this House have been quite clear about the current way of working, on which there seems to be mainly satisfaction. Only two questions in the survey conducted questioned a member of this house between "positive" and "neutral" and the non-regulatory nature of ticking both option b and option c was accurately mapped. Compared to the high level of maintenance that awaits the buildings of the First Chamber, the recommendations seem to give rise mainly to small maintenance in the process. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it always has something uncomfortable when a committee from the Chamber looks at the way in which the Chamber operates and then discusses it with itself. Mr Schalk said it was a bit reminiscent of the butcher who approves his own meat. He was actually okay with the whole team of the butcher shop being involved, but my group would prefer to see the NVWA involved too. Mr. Chairman. The functioning of the States-General is currently the subject of profound analysis on major issues such as the principle of democratic representation, the role of political parties, the cabinet formation, the resilience of democracy, the power of the national government and the state of the two-chamber system. At this time, it may seem as if a change in the domestic regulations in this house does not have much more significance than the reordering of the seats on the deck of a ship, while there are considerable doubts about the course of that ship. The First Chamber today is trending topic on social media; she is number two. It doesn't happen often. The European Parliament is number six. That doesn't happen often either. This is about a ban on turnips. The first chamber is not about this debate, but about rejecting the proposal that tickets should no longer be sold at usury prices. That is what concerns the people. I think it would be a good thing if we also occasionally thought about this. However, my group believes that it is good to look at both the functioning of the Chamber and the functioning of democracy, and to take both of these seriously, in the interests of parliamentary democracy. It is under pressure, but nevertheless seems to be the best means that we have been able to come up with each other in terms of proportional representation. As far as my group is concerned, the importance of transparency in the democratic process also calls for public meetings which, in the absence of physical reception opportunities, should be very well organised via livestreams. In this sense, we believe that the committee's 'decided' recommendation is too economical and does not adequately reflect the basic public character of parliamentary democracy. With regard to the assessment of European dossiers, my group believes that the Committee recommends a somewhat waiting role by making the appreciation of the government in the Lower House more leading than it already is. Although the Committee speaks of "wait and see for the appreciation of the government in the House of Representatives," it at the same time indicates that it wishes to change the role of this House, which might also indicate the intention to make that role more subordinate. If that is indeed the intention of the committee, my group would regret it. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the committee on this matter. The same applies to the organisation of policy debates. My group believes that the Upper House should not be much more modest in this respect than it already is. As far as we are concerned, a chambre de réflexion not only needs to reflect on the agenda and proposals of the House of Representatives, but also has, in times of great change as far as my group is concerned, a mandate to reflect on major social issues, either through a policy debate or through a heavier means, such as a parliamentary inquiry. My group does not need a regulation for this in iron and concrete. The parliamentary inquiry carried out on the initiative of Mr Kuiper has made it clear that it can do very well without it. The recommendation that motions which have not been put to the vote within six months should be withdrawn is considered superfluous by my group, because motions tabled can certainly become topical after a somewhat longer period and can also be influenced in the form of detention. In the meantime, they don't eat bread, they don't harm anyone, and there's no such thing as congestion that could lead to practical problems. My group agrees with the questions put by Mr Schalk. Finally, my group welcomes the recommendation by the committee that the appointment of trainees should be facilitated more widely. This may alleviate the work of the political groups and influence the work experience and involvement of students in parliamentary work in a favourable way, but with Mr De Graaf and a number of other colleagues who later made the same point, we find that the First Chamber is too kneel in this context, is too much on the cut and therefore makes the work difficult. In conclusion, my group considers that the committee and its support have done a very good job, for which we would once again like to thank you very much. Special thanks to Mr Strik, who was responsible for the interests of the smaller groups in the committee. In parliamentary democracy, too, those who do not honour small people do not rule for long, especially today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Koffeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break and the farewell to Wopke Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u89	I give the floor to Mr Flierman, Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking Members for their input into the debate and, of course, for the compliments they have given to the committee and its staff. We are happy to pass that on to the staff, not only to the staff who are present here in the room but also to the employees who were behind the scenes behind the scenes involved in our work. In addition to the clerk and the two staff members Ilse van den Driessche and Laurens Dragstra, many others contributed to, for example, notes on how this Chamber works and how it could possibly be improved. That appreciation has rightly been expressed. We'd be happy to pass it on. Mr. Chairman. A number of comments have been made in the debate which relate directly to what is now part of the work of the Remkes Committee, the State Committee on Parliamentary System. Comments have also been made that may be discussed here again in the General Reviews within a few weeks. I shall leave those comments aside; they are not the subject of the committee. This can be discussed further at another time, either with the government or in a different context. Mr. Chairman. We have produced a report designed to facilitate and stimulate the debate in this house on the way the Upper House works. The committee, in its wide-ranging composition, which you see behind the table, has put forward proposals and has also explicitly intended to stimulate the debate here in this Chamber and to distill out what the Chamber thinks about a number of things. I believe, listening to the first deadline, that at least that has worked well. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent has challenged me to start with a broad reflection on the context in which the Upper House functions in today's society. You yourself pointed out that this might take a little more time than is reserved for this debate, so I will not go into that temptation. In addition, the social position of the First Chamber, and of the Parliament in a broad sense, is one of the core tasks of the Remkes Committee. In my view, therefore, we would be going beyond the property of this committee if we were to consider it now. Mr. Chairman. It has also been found that there is actually a lot going well in this house. That is a statement on which we can be proud and satisfied. It is in itself also a compliment to the support of the Chamber. The committee has also noted this in so many words. It is also mentioned as such in the final word. It means that you think about the questions: where is it going well, where could it be better and where can we make changes to further improve our working methods? I will not contradict the fact that there is a certain amount of conservatism underneath it, as I have heard some Members argue. Man is by nature inclined to write "Machiavelli" to want to keep what he knows, and to be hesitant about changes that are previewed to him as improvements, which is not always the case either. So a certain conservatism is there, yes. On the other hand, in this Chamber, I believe that there is an eye for modern developments and for innovation. I would remind you that this is the first parliament to meet without paperwork. Everyone is now extremely happy with that. Furthermore, as I know, the staff does consider how we could deal with contemporary social media and even better position the Chamber in society in this respect. Finally, Mr President, I have just heard you argue that the next innovation would be to present the budget documents in a tiny briefcase on a USB memory stick to the House of Representatives. So who says we don't think about innovations? Furthermore, I think it is good to point out in advance that you should not want to regulate everything through formal amendments to the Rules of Procedure, for example. The committee has expressly stated that the playing field, the scope, of its work is limited to what we can amend in the Rules of Procedure and what we can lay down in working arrangements and so on. So we have made a very conscious statement that we are not going to look at issues that should be changed through legislation in a formal sense. We confine ourselves to the Rules of Procedure and practical arrangements and proposals, which you can design in them. This does not have to be done in formal regulation; it is also about making choices and focusing and then just doing what is agreed. The emphasis on this element, I think, cannot be missed in the reaction of our committee to what the Chamber said in the first term. Various Members have rightly called for attention to be paid to the political culture in this house. It is, of course, an essential part of the way it works here. In addition to the formal rules, there are all kinds of informal rules, practices and habits that are indeed part of the system, the system in which we work together here in the First Chamber. I think that's very valuable. I am also pleased that some of you have supported the suggestion that the College of Seniors periodically, whether annual or biennial, should consider how our work is actually going. Are things going well, or have we noticed at certain times that there are things that should be different, that don't walk anymore or that people don't feel good about? If that is the case, it must be possible to appoint it and then we must consider together to what extent we could adapt our working methods to that. That reflection is therefore an explicit part of our proposals. It is an excellent thing that we are not going to lay down in rules, but which we are going to say to each other: that is what we have to do. Before commenting specifically on the comments made in each chapter of the report, I would like to make a comment on the position of the Upper House. As you know, I'm not a lawyer, let alone a state lawyer, but I had a small crash course in state law from fellow English during dinner break. I would therefore like to make a few comments, although I know that I may be tempted to respond to them. Mr De Graaf is already in the starting blocks; I can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u91	He'll correct you if it doesn't go well, Mr. Flierman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u92	And all this from the same group, so that's going to be interesting! I would like to point out once again that in our work we have based our work on the First Chamber in the constellation we now know. This constellation is only partly described in formal rules in the Constitution, but indeed follows from the system of the Constitution. I would like to mention a few aspects. It is interesting, for example, that the Constitution mentions the Lower House before the First Chamber. The Constitution lays down the method of election of the First Chamber, which is different from that of the Second Chamber. The Lower House has a number of explicit powers that the Upper House does not have. It is also regulated by legislation, for example through provisions on fees, that the time spent in this house is different from that in the House of Representatives. From this context we deduce that there is nevertheless a political primacy of the House of Representatives and of a First Chamber which operates in a different way, with part-time members who also have the explicit task of bringing the outside world in. This part-time function, in which the outside world is brought in, combined with a political primacy for the House of Representatives, in our view makes this Chamber distinctive in relation to the House of Representatives and that you can speak of a clear added value of this Chamber in that constellation. So we are not turning away from the current system, but we are assuming the current state law as it comes to us written and unwritten. We have said this on purpose. If Mr Remkes and his colleagues think that this should be changed, we will know that in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go through the different chapters in our report. I will pass on the comments made by the various groups. I have already said a few things about the periodic discussions in the sphere of reflection. Mr Lintmeijer has suggested that this should not be limited to a conversation in his own circle, but rather that it should be extended with a kind of 360 degree feedback. That, of course, is something that the Remkes c.s. At the moment, it is also doing so when it insists on the functioning of the parliamentary system. That does not alter the fact that a discussion, if it takes place, does not have to be limited to a conversation in its own circle, but that input can also be guaranteed from the other side. A lot has been said about pairing. This has already been responded to in the event of interruption. For my part, I would just like to point out at this point that, as we know, the pairing only happens when it comes to Members who have to be absent at a sitting because they represent the Chamber elsewhere. The pairing is only applied in the case of an activity carried out by a Member of Parliament by reason of his responsibility in the Chamber. The fact that occasionally there are other reasons for pairing out of coulance and courtesy is part of the political culture that we cherish in this house. When groups say that they do not want to participate, that is of course their choice. Mr. Chairman. I'm gradually getting more concrete. Mrs. Jorritsma asked for the vote when sitting and getting up. If one Member asks for a roll-call vote, it is indeed our intention that it should take place, albeit the following week, so that the starting point for everyone to prepare for it remains the same. In this way, the wording she chose is also ours. I shall now turn to the lapse of motions. Our proposal is to cancel motions after six months, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. I thought Mr Schalk asked how that would work. As far as we are concerned, the staff will always ensure that there is a monitoring of progress, so that it can be understood in good time or a motion approaching six months, so to speak. If a motion has been held for more than six months, a decision must be taken by the Chamber in this Chamber. Is it going to be put to the vote? The Member who tabled the motion may ask that. If that member requests further arrest, that is also a decision of the Chamber. If the member does not do so, the motion shall lapse. We believe that this will keep Members sharp and will lead to deliberate action if we want to keep a motion alive, so we want to keep it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u93	Quite often the arrests take place in committee meetings. What is the real reason for wanting to do that here in this Chamber? In fact, holding the House does not depart far from putting that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u94	We are only talking in our report about those motions which one Member in plenary, prior to the vote, says: Mr President, I request that the motion be retained. We would say that this should not be the case for more than six months and then make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u95	Perhaps we should make a clear choice. For I understood from Mr Flierman that it could be put to the vote or that a Member could ask to remain. And then it can be allocated in a manner of speaking. Now we in this Chamber are used to a lot of subjects that we do what one Member asks us to do. Is it Mr Flierman's intention that this courteous way should be chosen? 'Cause then maybe it's gonna be a little bit of a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u96	I would prefer it to be as we can see on other subjects; that the President overcomes the feelings of the political groups, for example in the College of Seniors, that she draws a conclusion on that basis and that it can be voted on if necessary. We would not be in favour of one Member being able to ask for arrest, because then what we are proposing is indeed, in many cases, a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u97	If someone submits a motion, your work has made it clear that we do not necessarily need five signatures under that motion, but that there can also be a few hands raised by people who may not agree with that motion at all, but that they are there. At the moment when it will have to be voted on whether or not a motion is being held, I think you will get a political choice immediately. The question is whether we should want to, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u98	Our preference is to say: yes, we do. Otherwise it will remain a personal view of a Member of Parliament, but it is also expressed in the Acts, I shall say, so it is known. In such a motion, which nevertheless calls for a ruling from the Chamber in width, you should say at the latest after six months: are we going to make that statement or not? Then I'll go to the subject of urgent legislative proposals. Mr Schalk asked about the number of moments of introduction, but that is what the government is primarily about. I would like to point out, however, that these moments of introduction have quite a few consequences for society, so I can imagine that the government is extremely reluctant to do so. If more treatment time is needed under the Referendum Act, this means, in principle, in my view, that it should not go away from the time at the end of the process, but that legislative proposals should be brought into procedure sooner, because it needs to be taken into account that more time is needed for the treatment. With regard to the committee's recommendations on the relationship between this Chamber and the Cabinet in the case of urgent legislative proposals, I note that as soon as we and the President find that our recommendations have been accepted in this area, I expect a letter from the President to the Cabinet shortly expressing our wishes on this point. The nice thing is that you have the opportunity with each other to remind the Prime Minister, if need be, that the letter is there and to tempt him to give a ruling on it. The PvdA Group asked for rapporteurs. We have not made any proposals for this. Of course, committees are free here too, for example, to prepare a particular subject through smaller working groups, as we see in some cases. You can see that at hearings and theme meetings often happen. The working group formed by the Finance Committee has been mentioned a number of times. We have not explicitly included a proposal for rapporteurs, but the official sheets on a legislative proposal will already hold something of what a rapporteur does, although these sheets will always be neutral and colourless, if I may put it that way. As far as the consolidated legal texts are concerned, I can see broad support for this suggestion from the committee. If you properly implement that proposal, it could reduce the workload for individual Members of Parliament. It doesn't matter if you don't have to put that puzzle of what's in the original law, what's in the amendment and how we deal with it, but if it's already been put in front of you by the government. If a committee needs to ask for a consolidated explanation of a substantially amended legislative proposal, it could, but that would not have to be standard practice. I also think it is important to stress that the government will always remain responsible for the proposal as it comes to it and that this explanation can only be made by the government and will, in many cases, be included in a reply or a further reply. If there is a need for a more substantive, I would almost say, more technical response to certain amended proposals, then it is of course always possible to ask the Council of State for information. And that is also what we do in certain cases. This in response to the questions about the Processes chapter in the Chamber. Then I'll continue with the review. Several Members have asked for the work of the Implementation Test Working Group and I think I can answer that briefly and simply. The Working Method Committee has greatly appreciated the fact that a further clarification of what should be meant by an implementation test has been made from the Finance Committee. As an annex to our report, a number of points have been included for the review of legislative proposals on their legal quality. We believe that it would be wise to extend these points of interest to include a number of specific points relating to the quality of implementation of proposals. In consultation with the Registry, the said working group has also been supported by an employee of the Registry. I believe that this is a good way to incorporate the work of the working group from the Finance Committee into that of our Commission. Then I'll be on my own agenda. I would like to say a few things about that. Mr Kuiper has already referred to the fact that when we started the parliamentary inquiry on independence, there was hardly any regulation in our own Rules of Procedure on how this should be designed. As a committee, it seems wise to formulate such a regulation in a general sense. The suggestion of doing so on a case-by-case basis seems complicated and unnecessary to me. Of course, you do put a question and a procedure on a case-by-case basis, but this can very well be done within the general wording contained in the proposal for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. A legal framework is therefore desirable in advance. By the way, what we propose to do is to a large extent derived from what has now become a tried and tested recipe in the House of Representatives. We can only benefit from that. Then there is the parliamentary inquiry as such. Several Members have said about this, and we agree that you can of course apply it. That's a choice the Chamber makes itself. We do not say at all: that is not allowed, or that is allowed, but so often. We have only observed that this type of research will gain in weight and expressiveness if you do not use the instrument too often. The fact that the outcome of the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, as we had a few years ago under the leadership of Mr Kuiper, has so much impact and is regularly cited by the government in proposals, also has to do with the fact that it was a special activity and that it has in this sense also impressed by the uniqueness of the use of the instrument. We would also like to make that very clear. Then I come to the issue of policy debate/theme debate. From the context in which the Chamber operates, I have already said something about this. It is clear that the political primacy lies with the House of Representatives and that the amount of time available to this Chamber is limited. Having said that, we all know that assessing legislative proposals, including European proposals, is something that needs to be done; it is not the question of whether we want to do so. There is therefore a priority for this Chamber. In addition, there is, of course, scope for monitoring the government in a political sense and for putting issues that a senator or a committee considers relevant in this sense on the agenda. It's possible. As a committee, we have only wanted to observe that there have been a number of policy debates in recent times, the rate of return being relatively low, in addition to a number of examples mentioned here, where this rate of return is high. The choice to hold such a debate therefore remains with the Chamber. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. What we have wanted to say is that it seems sensible to look primarily for debates on a subject which concerns several policy areas, possibly several departments, for which there is a specific reason, with social urgency, including a relationship with, for example, the international legal order or the national legal order, our state system, and in which there is a relationship with the quality of legislation. That way, we will always stay with the primary task of the First Chamber. We believe that thematic debates that you have in this context can have added value. But you always have to think carefully about what the cause is, what the focus or the theme of such a debate should be, in order to obtain maximum profit from it. Let me illustrate this by reminding you of the following. I prepared myself for a debate on culture once. That debate did not continue because the cabinet fell on the Friday before the Tuesday in question, but afterwards I think that this debate did not work either. In any case, as far as I am concerned, I do not think that society would really be enriched with that. In short, a critical reflection seems important to me. Find it in current themes that have a relationship with the primary task of the Chamber. Of course, it is then up to the College of Seniors to decide whether such a debate will be put on the agenda. We do not lay down criteria or harsh requirements. We're just making suggestions. Which brings me to the subject of communication. That brings me to the opening of committee meetings. This is a subject that several of you have mentioned. Firstly, the committee believes that substantive debates are always public, whether they be hearings, oral consultations with ministers or whatever examples we mention, unless the committee decides not to do so. But the rule is public, unless. As far as procedural meetings are concerned, as a committee, we have already proposed that the current provision that the secret is traded there should be deleted. The person traded there is public and is made known through the short notes. Members can communicate with whomever they want right after the meeting. A suggestion from the committee is that the chairman of a committee may be available to answer press questions. As a committee, we have said above all: there are some practical reasons for not allowing a public at the procedural meetings of committees in principle. The housing in this building doesn't really lend itself to it either. The provision of ICT facilities is also a little more complicated than is sometimes thought. Apart from the cost, in terms of making sure that there is direction, that there are cameras, that all that runs, including microphones, is still more complicated than we think. So the committee says: we should not begin to do that. Finally, this would mean an increase in the length of the session, which is now being used extremely efficiently. However, in the discussion on temporary housing at Lange Voorhout and the final housing in this building, we take account of an improvement in the provision of services in this area. There is therefore more to be done, but we would like to maintain a certain restraint in the efficiency of the procedural meetings as we know them now. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the issue of Europe. I think it is important to stress first of all that the committee sympathizes with a number of Members that the attention we give to Europe is less than we would like on the basis of what is actually happening there and on the basis of what is being done there. The focus is also less than what we have committed ourselves to. Mr Kox referred to this. Now you can simply say: more should happen. But I don't think that's a solution to the problem. We have said with each other that it should be primarily in more focus. We must consciously choose which subjects we follow and which ones we do not follow. The subjects we then follow must also be followed much more actively, for example by seeing Council agendas, Council reports and so on on the committee agenda here. That, in any event, Members shall be informed by means of information. Members can decide how they want to deal with this. If a committee has already decided to actively follow a particular subject, it is obvious that information on it is systematically placed on the committee agenda, without any further indication from individual senators. When it comes to issues that this Chamber attaches importance to, it may also be important to ask the government to provide targeted information on the negotiations. This does not mean that we should start another discussion on everything, but it is mainly intended as a tool for focusing on our activities. Should we now restrict ourselves by waiting for the government and the House of Representatives? As a committee, we recognise in our report that the First Chamber has an independent role in Europe and that it also fits the role of the First Chamber as laid down in the European Treaty. However, here too, the relationship between the Second and the First Chambers as laid down in our system applies. This means that the First Chamber will also have to make a number of conscious choices and considerations on that point. It will, of course, continue to decide when a dossier will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u99	I would like to ask the chairman of the committee why it is when he puts it down, namely that the national relationship between parliaments is true when it comes to European legislation. This is contrary to the idea that the Chamber has a stand-alone position and also provides an independent input into Europe. In my view, this is precisely the question of whether or not it is. Are you going to introduce something of the periodicity or leave the primacy all the way to the House of Representatives? Isn't this where you can grow into another situation? So my question is: why do you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u100	Mr Kuiper points to a kind of tension field that exists in the national order, in which the First Chamber has a certain role. That role is the result of the order; that is what I have been talking about. This role, of course, also stems from the amount of time available. In this context, we are also looking at the European proposals and saying that we in the Chamber cannot achieve everything. So we have to make choices. The fact that, in order to do that work efficiently in a number of cases, you wait for the government to come up with a proposal, but also to see how the House of Representatives deal with it, is not so much a matter of principle, as Mr Kuiper seems to ask. As far as I am concerned, it would have to do with a practical approach, in which you say: we must try to deal with our time as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u101	So the problem I have with this is that it is a practical limitation, namely in the time you have, that will work in the way you understand your powers. We simply have that competence and we simply have that role to play, including with regard to European legislation. I am trying to conduct this debate in principle. If practical objections stand in the way of this, then these practical objections must not be the most serious ones, but you must continue to take account of what you have to do. Then perhaps we should move a different direction in our thinking, like: we have that to do and we apparently have too little time for that, what does that mean for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u102	The question of whether that would mean more time being available to this Chamber and whether that would mean less attention being paid to national legislation has not been addressed and has not been answered. I believe that every political group, every Member of Parliament, can decide for themselves how to divide the time available between European and national legislation. That's one. The second point I would like to make is that we are talking about a possibility clause here. The Chamber or committee can always decide to consider a proposal immediately before a reaction from the government or from the House of Representatives is available. There may also be waiting, but that choice is really made by the Chamber or its members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u103	Finally, I'll just say that before you say it, Mr. President. I think this is a fundamental question, because this question says something about how we see our role as the First Chamber. I actually find it difficult for this practical limitation to be increased every time and every time it comes on the table when it comes to what we have to do in dealing with European legislation. We keep saying that we are not getting enough. I'd like that question to stay above water. I understand that you do not want to give the decisive answer, but I do think it is important that we continue to address this as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u104	Mr Kuiper is, of course, free to keep the subject on the agenda and to ask for it again in plenary, in committee or otherwise from time to time. I would like to point out that I think it is important from the point of view of the Netherlands' position towards Europe that we continue to monitor the coherence between what we do as the First and the Second Chambers. A situation in which the First Chamber turns left and the Second Chamber turns right will in any case work mainly on the laughing muscles in Brussels, but also have little impact. Mr. Chairman. A number of members have critically commented on the issue of the Permanent Representative of the States General. First of all, I would like to stress once again that the strengthening of the Permanent Representation proposed by us is not an extension in the sense of a Permanent Representative exclusive to the Upper Chamber. It is a question of strengthening the Permanent Representation as it is now in Brussels. We have explicitly wanted to pour this into the form of an experiment in order to assess whether it helps us in the process. As you know, one member of the committee has made a reservation on this point, but the committee believes that it will help us focus on our activities and to monitor more actively what is happening on the European agenda. In this way, you are more actively engaged in the question of how other parliaments think about certain proposals, so that in some cases you can also come to Brussels with a more effective response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u105	I was wondering whether Mr Flierman, like me, felt that it was mainly the responsibility of the political groups to collect this information, rather than the Chamber saying that there should be an extra FTE in Brussels, because we all need the same information. You could say: no, that is the responsibility of the political groups, and if the groups are a little underdeveloped in the possibilities, then we should give the groups some extra resources. Let me say it very loudly, because it is obviously a choice whether you are voting for an extra amount in Brussels or simply making it available to the group. I'd like to choose the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u106	This response from Mr De Graaf will be taken with me in a moment in response to his question on support. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u107	I would like to ask Mr Flierman: why not take stock first of what is needed and try to find possibilities in the consultation with the PVSG that is already there or the wishes that may be in this Chamber could not be better implemented by the one who is already there, rather than adding a second one? If I see a cost picture of some of the things that we might want to do here with each other, I do know where my preferences lie. This would cost a huge amount of money, and we haven't even figured out whether it might be possible to organise it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u108	Mrs. Jorritsma, next?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u109	Yes, then, because it is in the extension of this. It still puzzles me, because what do we want? What are we asking at the moment for that official who is here? I feel that the question formulation is insufficient. Before we start expanding the device, I would like to know: what exactly do we want someone to do? I actually think that the Committee on European Affairs should formulate this, because it is support for that committee. Apparently, that official is currently only working for the House of Representatives. Apparently, we don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u110	In answer to these questions: the practice is indeed that the current Permanent Representative of the States-General in Brussels is one person, who is paid by the Lower House of Representatives, almost exclusively works for the Lower Chamber and does mainly work there in receiving, touring and accompanimenting MPs visiting Brussels. So his or her work is mainly in Brussels. A report has been published on the European working method, which has been prepared by a working group of the EUZA Commission, if I may say so, under the chairmanship of Mr Kuiper. On the basis of that report, as a committee, we have noted that it would be good if more attention would be paid to the provision and collection of information from the committees, here in The Hague. It is therefore intended to give Members of Parliament greater control over the European dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u111	I would like to add my voice to the two previous interruptions. A link is being made between the money you can spend on an extra FTE for that European permanent representative and the money you can spend on supporting the parliamentary groups. In fact, I did not find in the committee's report a quantification of the costs of extending permanent representation, whereas the proposed additional support for the parliamentary groups mentioned a figure. It might be useful for us to know how these two amounts relate to each other, because that would make it easier for us to come to a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u112	I'm gonna go over the contents anyway. The question is, what do you expect from that representative? Let me say first of all that this is an excellent subject on which we have tried to facilitate the debate in the Chamber. I am not standing here to defend and drag in an extra FTE for the PVSG at any price. If the Chamber finally comes to the conclusion that that is not necessary, then we simply do not. That could be part of the debate. However, the Committee considered that the extension of the PVSG could lead to the provision of more information to the committees in both chambers and, above all, to the provision of that information, in particular the substantive dossiers on the subject in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u113	I have a brief interruption. I was a little shocked when I heard that the first representative is mainly a kind of tour guide. And we're going to add someone who has to do the substantive part. I think that we really need to think very carefully about this, because if someone is primarily concerned with receiving people from the Netherlands and showing them the building, there may be other possibilities for that. I'm charging now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u114	Mr Schalk is now making a caricature of the work of the Permanent Representative and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u115	I'm sorry, that's absolutely not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u116	...I'd like to fight that. I believe the Permanent Representative is a lady. Fact is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u117	Yeah, her name's Suzanne Nollen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u118	... that its activities are now taking place mainly in Brussels. The idea that we have in the event of an extension of the office is that it would allow the two people who would be involved to be present at committee meetings more often and to actively inform them about what is going on in Brussels on relevant European dossiers. They can therefore take information with them to Brussels when it comes to the views of this Chamber vis-à-vis those of other Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u119	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u120	Madam President. If I've made a caricature of someone's work, I'll take it back, of course. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u121	That's what I understood. As has been said, the suggestion is part of a package of proposals to reflect on the possibilities of making our European approach more effective and targeted, focusing on the issues that are really important here in the house. In this context, the experiment with a permanent representative should, as far as we are concerned, also be seen. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the backup. Several political groups have made comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u122	I asked for the price tag of the permanent representative in relation to the €50,000 mentioned for support from the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u123	We have not calculated a price tag for this permanent representation. However, you can also see for yourself what a FTE with the additional costs of placing in Brussels means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u124	Do you think it is a safe assumption that the costs are three times as high as what has been proposed to support the parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u125	They are in the order of three times as high as the budget we have mentioned for the trainees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u126	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Okay, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u127	That does not seem to me to be an unrealistic assumption. But again, we didn't make any figures. We didn't think that was part of our job either. If there is support for this in the Chamber, this will be included in the estimate. Mr. Chairman. The last block on which I would like to comment concerns support. Several political groups have commented on this. As a committee, we were also aware that support for the Chamber is not exactly generous. The word "sneaky" has fallen. That's a good Twente expression. I could imagine anything. That support is not generously measured. On the other hand, we have always taken on board the concept of the part-time senator who also does a lot of work himself when it comes to preparing for the introduction and assessment of legislative proposals. I've said that before. We think that this also has real added value for the model, the role and the place that the First Chamber has in our order. But as I said, we were and are aware that the budgets for support are not generously measured. We have not sought the answer to this problem in proposals to increase the budget per group, but above all in a number of proposals which would apply to the collective and which would thus reduce the workload for all Members. I refer to the bill, which should restrict an activity which is now being re-examined by almost every member of the political group dealing with such a proposal. I refer to the consolidated legal texts which also save a lot of work. In this context, we have also seen the extension of permanent representation in Europe as an opportunity to reduce the workload of senators. In this light, we have also seen the budget of €50,000 from which each group could claim an intern every year. It is also described in the report. I was pleased to hear in Mr De Graaf's first term that he is not concerned with a model in which you vote per senator 0.2 fte for a personal employee, which was later supported by a number of colleagues from Mr De Graaf. This would, in our opinion, and also according to my own firm conviction, really draw out the model of the First Chamber. I was pleased that Mr De Graaf, on the other hand, was talking about an increase in expenditure, perhaps I should add the word'modest' from the group budget for administrative support, for the occasional question of an expert, or for the convening of a meeting. Now, Mr President, if the political groups think that this is appropriate, they can make that point at the forthcoming estimates, which are discussed in the Committee on the Interior, the College of Seniors and ultimately here in plenary. Of course, that is not a problem for us. I'm looking at my notes. I think I have answered almost all the comments. Mrs Sent has addressed me in my role as a member of the Housely Commission. In formal terms, of course, I am not here in that capacity, but I do consider it to be the task of the Members of the House that they also pick up signals from the Chamber and take them to the House's Committee. I understand that there is broad support for the idea of improving the facilitation of staff from the political groups in a number of ways. So we will be happy to take that with us to the House's Committee and we will see how we can deal with it in a good way. Mr President, I believe that in the first period I have answered the questions that have been put to us from the Chamber. If that is not the case, we will undoubtedly hear it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u128	Thank you. I see that Mr Koffeman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u129	There was the remark that the appreciation of the government and the House of Representatives of European files should become more executive than is currently the case. I had asked for a response from the committee. I still like to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u130	I've already said what I need to say. In that respect, the Chamber is also concerned with its own opinion, so to speak. That view will therefore not be more executive than usual. On the other hand, I have also noted that it will not be effective for this Chamber in Brussels to express a different position than the government or the House of Representatives. That is why in many cases this Chamber will look at what the government thinks and what the House of Representatives thinks. But then, I think, there is a need to seek consensus on the contribution that goes from the Netherlands to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u131	I'm just trying to clear it up a little bit. In fact, the phrase is often used in the committee meeting: we have agreed here that... Well, then such a conclusion could lead to the fact that, if anyone asks for attention to European dossiers, it is constantly said: we really need to wait and see what the government thinks or what the House of Representatives thinks. In this sense, it could indeed be a tightening-up of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u132	I really think that if, in a committee meeting, a senator thinks that a matter is so urgent that he does not want to wait for it, he can put that item on the agenda. That is what I believe we wanted to argue, and there can be no mistake about that. Whether that is always wise and sensible is up to him and the other members of the committee to judge. But it can and may, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u133	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the co-rapporteurs for their contributions to this debate and the committee for their reactions to the various contributions. In this brief contribution, I would like to begin by making a few further comments on what I have contributed in the first period. I would then like to comment on a few of the themes that have been crystallised in this debate. First of all, a number of things about my first input. I spoke earlier in the debate about the political primacy of the House of Representatives. Mr Kox, in particular, has dealt with this. In order to avoid misunderstandings: that referral is not a plea for a strong or stronger self-limitation of the Upper House. It is actually more a statement of the situation that I am now observing, which is supported by the state-law system in the broad sense of the word and the culture that exists in the First Chamber, as the chairman of the committee also said. That is also what the Committee has taken as its starting point for the reflections on the method of operation of the Upper House. That is what my group appreciates and I have therefore voted in favour of it on behalf of my group. I also gave my support to a number of proposals, in particular on the legislative sheets, the consolidated legal texts and the implementation test. In the report they may be a bit firm, but we are all in favour of it. Of course, you also have to approach these matters with a little common sense, because it may well be that once there is no need for a sheet, that a consolidated legal text is really nonsense because it is a specific change and that a test of execution is really not necessary, but I think that we can all come to the right conclusions on this. I think that there is something similar about the provision of information on the EU proposals: the Council reports and the Council agendas. I think it is important that we present them very practically every week in such a way that they do not dominate the committee agendas optically and in terms of content. Because if a normal package is formed of that, I'm stuck in it because I'm a loyal member of the House of Representatives just passing by the agenda. You have to present them in such a way that they get the place they deserve, but not more or less than that. Then there is the debate itself, as it has been so far. I see that there is great consensus on most of the issues that have been raised. Perhaps that is not surprising, but it is good to see that. In my opinion, there are three themes that the debate focuses on. One theme is its own parliamentary liaison with Brussels, the PVSG. The second point I really see coming forward is that of the budgets of the political groups or additional provisions for trainees. Gradually, these two subjects began to connect. That makes it a little easier. The third point is the openness of committee meetings. I have already made a few comments on that last point in the case of interruption; I am not going to repeat it now. The other issues, the liaison link and the political group budget, are now to be discussed and discussed by our group. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that, as a Chamber, as we are now together, we have once really been able to talk about these things in connection with each other. I think that's good. That's how I experience it. Thank you once again to the committee for the many and useful work it has done in this regard. Furthermore, I look forward to the decision-making on these issues and other issues raised by the Committee in this Chamber with great confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u136	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the committee and its chairman, who spoke eloquently about what we had said before, for the answers to the questions we have asked and for his reflections on the issues that have been raised. I would like to say a few more points, first of all about pairing. I am very sorry that we no longer have to expect calls from Mr Nagel and that we no longer have to call him. Our door remains open, you are always welcome. If you ever want to pair, we're always willing to talk about that. Then there are the procedural meetings. I don't think we have anything to hide. Our procedural meetings in this house last an average of 15 minutes. To be honest, I find it a little strange to have to make a big investment to put it online, so that everyone can see what we all think of there. I don't have a problem with the way things are going right now. It's not secret anymore, it's not very confidential anymore. The chairman can bring out anything and we can bring out anything. I do not think it is very useful at the moment to make sure that it is all available online and to make large investments for that. Then there is Europe. You have not been able to convince me that we now need to expand for the PVSG. I find it a little tricky myself that the bestaffin is starting to get mixed up. At the same time, I listened carefully to what was said by a number of spokesmen. I would very much like to take this subject back to the group. Finally, what the chairman of the committee said about the subject debate, policy debates and so on. We look at it like this: it will be limited and focused. As the committee has now indicated, the issue debate is actually a refinement of the policy debate as we know it. It is not "on top of"; there is no instrument on top of what we already had. If we remain cautious about that, then we can live with it. Thank you for this debate. I liked the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u137	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u138	Mr. Chairman. I have two points, for the sake of clarity. D66 asked for a response to comments on the financial support of the political groups. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that it is now minimal. As with a welfare allowance, the question from which you reason is: what would you need or what do you get and can you save it? As with the assistance we are in favour of increasing this minimum amount as it can. The motion on the transparency of committee meetings has already been announced. We stress once again that we agree with Tiny Kox, among others, that it is mainly about the principle that meetings are or are not public and verifiable. That is why we are tabling a motion that offers the simplest, most accessible solution, and I would also like to say to Mrs Jorritsma. We understand perfectly well that with the current housing the physical presence of the public and the media is not possible and that you should not make expensive investments either. But if you do it at least with an audio system and not a camera, for example, you have very low costs. Then you can continue to honor the principle: it must be public, we have nothing to hide. As you know, Mrs. Jorritsma, I have a public service record of my own. I've made a program with you before. I am prepared to advise on this matter free of charge. If you would like a more detailed explanation, you can do so now. Otherwise, the door will be open to you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u139	It's been a long time since we've been in a program together. I'm sure I'll like it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u140	Can I tell you this anecdote? It was a program about traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u141	I'm sure you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u142	Ms Jorritsma was a Member of Parliament and would later become Minister of Defence...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u143	I'm afraid I couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u144	She never became Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u145	Sorry, Minister of Transport, and we made a recording of which later, when she became Minister, a fragment was broadcast, in which Mrs Jorritsma told us that she sometimes exceeded maximum speed. But aside from that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u146	Yes, I must confess, my husband is still complaining, because he's doing my paperwork. But I didn't want to interrupt on that. Actually, I wanted to ask you something. In your speech, you paid quite a lot of attention to the number of motions that have been tabled, including in this House. I am therefore a little surprised that you are now going to table a motion in this debate on the openness of the procedural meeting. We had already agreed that at the end of this sitting the chairman of the committee or our chairman would conclude how much the hares are running. I find it special that we are now faced with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u147	I'm going to serve you. I intend not to explain this unless there is one member who does not understand it. Now that one member's here, I'm gonna explain. I raised this point this afternoon in the Seniors' Meeting, where you were present. At that time, the President said that it could only be done if you tabled a motion. Anyone who has been paying attention will understand why I have now tabled this motion, but I am glad that I have been able to update you completely again. I hope to help you over this threshold. Finally, Mr President, I should like to present my motion. The President shall: Mr Nagel, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Kox, Mr De Graaf, Mr Koffeman and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that procedural committee meetings should also in principle be public;]] [[considers that, for practical reasons, if the public and the media are unable to attend committee meetings in the current housing, it should be possible to follow these meetings through at least an audio system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-CXXIV-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the chairman of the temporary committee for his detailed reply on behalf of the committee. It is a matter that I can imagine has been discussed a great deal within the committee, and that not everyone was always in agreement at the first moment. You don't have to. It is not a party political debate either. It is a debate on how best to function as a Chamber. The state committee will have to talk about the parliamentary system, about the relationship between the two chambers. It makes no sense to talk about this here, nor about the legitimacy in terms of how the two Chambers are created. But I stick to the principle that we are free, within our powers, only those powers are slightly more limited than those of the House of Representatives. This should give us reason to use these powers in a self-conscious but also self-controlled manner. That's what I tried to formulate in my first term. Mr. Chairman. I have co-signed Mr Nagel's motion after very careful consideration, because I have no objections in principle to the opening up of our committee meetings, quite the contrary. I do think that if this is introduced, whether or not through an audio system, the groups and also the Members should give rise to self-limitation, so that we do not turn it into a new layer in the political debate. Because that is the risk that arises when you choose public access. You can see this occasionally in the committee meetings of the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u149	I'm always so curious: how do you expect to stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u150	I told you, it takes restraint. It doesn't require a ban. It doesn't ask a chairman with a whip. It does require wise and sensible Members of Parliament. And by the way, if things go wrong, you will find that it is arranged outside the committee meetings, on the walkway. There's no one waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u151	In committee meetings, closed or public, it is always possible to conduct political procedures. The difference is that at public meetings people who do so can be dealt with, because it is verifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u152	Mr President, I do not believe that this was an interruption to my address, so I am going on and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u153	It was an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u154	Yeah, that could be. Mr. Chairman. As far as European reinforcement, the strengthening of the PVSG, is concerned, I have already made it clear in an interrupting debate that my group is not thinking directly about this. It is also a substantial investment, of which I do not really see the added value for the time being. So that's not what we're here for. The theme debates. I think that in practice an acceptable form will develop that we can all live with. I very much like Mrs Sent's suggestion that we should also think about this type of topic debate, not on all fronts, but occasionally, the system of a rapporteur, someone who, on behalf of the committee or on behalf of the Chamber, makes a first introduction or makes a first contribution to the debate, and who has also studied it a little more. I think it's a nice idea to experiment with that. We should introduce this carefully, but I think it is worth it. Then briefly the research function. There are differences of opinion as to whether or not it should be tightened. Groups who see opportunities and have a good argument, a good story, to try, can also enter into it themselves. That will not be up to my group. I have the impression that this also applies to Mr Kuiper's group, to think proactively where possible. I welcome the commitments on the extra low on the agenda, the focus on legislative quality around the test. I'm not going to go into that any further. Finally, the budget of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and I should like to separate the drawing rights from that proposal of those trainees. I think it's a little unfortunate, drawing rights. At some point it's up and you're too late, or you don't have a chance anymore, or it's only €50,000 distributed to all groups. I find that difficult, but well, it's a first step and I'm not against it either. But I would think that there is room for a more structural approach to the ministry of the political groups. I have made it clear that it is not about what I believe was called the "bik'ers" in the 1970s and early 1980s. "Bik" then stood for "engineering individual MP." That means, of course, that a MP got someone in for a few tithes. None of that is on the table. It's really about support in the administration, the organization, expertise, from time to time hiring someone. That kind of work. This can, of course, be asked in the estimation, I say to the chairman of the temporary committee, but we now have the debate on how to proceed. Although we do not have to table too many motions, I say to Mrs Jorritsma that I have not spoken about it. But I also remember, like Mr Nagel at the senior council that was said to be able to rule by motion. So that's what I'm gonna do now. I'll make a statement to the Chamber. This motion calls on the House to make proposals at the time of the estimation. The President shall: Mr De Graaf, Mr Kuiper, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Schalk, Mr Nagel and Mr Sent proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas budgets to support political groups and members are very limited;]] [[Whereas the increase in the budget contributes to the optimum fulfilment of the political and qualitative review role of the First Chamber, in particular as this will enable groups to be better supported in, inter alia, administration, expertise and organisation;]] [[calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to make proposals for a reasonable increase in the budget of the political groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-CXXIV-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would, of course, like to thank Mr Flierman as chairman of the committee for his comprehensive and clear response. All my questions have been dealt with by him. I shall come back to two aspects. First of all, I would like to say something about holding a motion. I understand from him that the Registry is doing this excellently with all kinds of other things, so that will also happen here. The applicant may make a request, weighted in the College of Seniors, and thereafter a proposal will be made in a plenary session on whether or not to hold a motion. This means that the text proposal I made in my first term does not need to be included in a motion. That's good, because that's one less motion. I did co-sign a motion. That is Mr De Graaf's motion. Why? There is no doubt that a financial choice will have to be made in the next period of the forecast. I understand, on the one hand, that it is said that we all have to keep that a little bit apart, but there are actually three aspects that are now, so to speak, floating over the market. These are the PVSG, one and a half tonnes, an intern fund, €50,000, or in one way or another group support. If I have to choose, I'll go for the last. That is why I have co-signed this motion. I would once again like to thank the committee for its hard work, and I would like to thank my fellow Members for the fine debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his response. Unfortunately, I can't thank him for answering my question. It was about the trials. I spoke at that time about long speaking time, about long explanations of vote and also about long lead times. So let me just repeat my question. It seems that the rate of treatment is directly proportional to the political will. My question to the committee is therefore whether it agrees that this point is also covered by the systematic use of procedures for political purposes. I would like to look forward to the reaction of the chairman of the committee. Maybe he was a little distracted by the interruptions, so I don't blame him anymore. I'm just gonna wait and see. With regard to the additional PVSG, I am not convinced that this will give more control over the European dossiers. On behalf of my group, I can say here that we remain in the position that we do not want any additional PVSG. With regard to the increase in the budget for the political groups and to a pot for trainees, we do not need it at all. As far as we are concerned, the group budget is more than enough. We're left with money, too. I would like to invite all my fellow Members to open the door at all times to explain how we are doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u158	I would suggest that Mrs Faber give what she has left to the rest of the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u159	I think that is a bit of a socialist idea and, of course, I come from a rather conservative angle, so we prefer to return it to the general budget. All right, then, about a rapporteur. Mrs Sent spoke about experimenting with a rapporteur. We in the PVV Group do not see that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u160	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the detailed answer. I think the President has answered the questions we have asked. It is good to hear that where this periodic reflection is concerned, whether it is taking place annually or less often, the space is created to involve the outside world, of course from our own agenda. If you had been a cabinet, I would have said thank you for this commitment. I think of it as such, in that direction. It also saves another motion. Well, then we can leave that alone. Moreover, this is actually also a debate which is less suitable for motions. It serves more to create a common picture of things. Nevertheless, I have co-signed two motions. One on financial support. That is what has been said. It is a good thing that the Chamber decides to see if there is anything more to it. The second motion, on the transparency of all committee meetings, I also co-signed, especially on the principle that committee meetings should not have been decided. The fact that we still have to find a number of technical solutions for this and that they may only come into the new housing is actually secondary to the general starting point and the principle that applies to it. I welcome Mr Flierman's comments on the policy or theme debates. The word doesn't really matter to me, if I'm being honest. In the first report of the committee, the focus seemed to go very much towards legislation alone. The list as mentioned by the chairman of the committee, which concerns broader issues, some social urgency, the relationship with the international or national legal order and the quality of legislation, gives me sufficient latitude to consider in this Chamber a sensible consideration of what we want to have a policy or topic debate with each other. As I said earlier, we have, in general, been able to impose restrictions on ourselves when it comes to linking too many broad perspectives to them or becoming too specific. The wording you give here gives enough room in daily practice to choose what we want to have a debate on or a policy debate on. With regard to a trial with an extension of European representation, we would be in favour of that. It's a little split up. I'm curious what we're going to get out of that, but we'd like to hear that back when the minds are made up. Finally, you didn't really go into the specific technical support, like that PerfectView app. I'd like to bring it to your attention one more time. We really need to come up with a better system in a decent way with mail coming in to us, to be able to go, because I really think it's too skinny. Thanks for the answer. Thanks also to all my fellow Members for the good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u163	Mr. Chairman. It was nice to see that the committee could speak with one voice and only had to make a restriction on a single subject. I think that's how it's supposed to be. This is about the way this Chamber works. That doesn't include left, right and center. It's about what's most efficient for this Chamber to do its job as well as possible. So my group can live with anything. There is nothing in the report that, if adopted, we will be against. We are in favour of this proposal. Nevertheless, if we can think that it is better to wait a little longer for the formation of the PV of the States-General in Brussels. If we had money on that, we would not even be able to spend that money on the extension of our Registry. I am sure that the money will be used efficiently if we put an extra employee here to inform us about Europe. My group is not in favour of increasing the group allowance. We can make ends meet right now. But even if Thom de Graaf's motion is adopted, we will not run out of the building angry. We'll figure something out! With regard to the transparency of committees, I would very much like this Chamber to say what it intended to say in 2003: committee meetings are public. That it is not so easy to achieve in practice, we will find a solution for that. Then we've solved that problem. A final comment on parliamentary investigations. I do not think that we should be too skinny about that. We've had one, and that's a good investigation. I remember how difficult it was, because we'd never done it before. I know that the group chairman of the Christian Union said: I have been here for 25 years and we have never done a parliamentary investigation, isn't that strange?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u164	The last one!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u165	Yeah, yeah, the last one! "A" group chairman said that, and that was weird, too. It is an extremely important parliamentary right that we have granted ourselves since 1871. When we took advantage of it, it turned out very well. So I think we should challenge ourselves by asking ourselves which topics are suitable to do that again, because as a Chamber we have proven that we could do it, even within the budget of our Chamber. So rather a more generous attitude towards parliamentary investigations than a, what's it called, knee-deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u166	Downstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u167	Benepen, yes; I wanted to use Thom's word again. I think that research tasted like more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u168	There's no such thing as "sneaky."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u169	Mr President, the word'sneaky' does exist and you can look it up. Mr. Kox knows what it means. He even knew the first time I said it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u170	Yes, I know all the dialects of the Netherlands, especially my own dialect. It doesn't exist there, but in the vicinity of Nijmegen they're all Dutch, so that's what we count. But as far as parliamentary investigations are concerned, I would rather challenge this Chamber, ourselves: what subjects could we examine again in the way that we then looked at privatisation and self-determination? Of something we have proven we can do, I would say: we should do it again. And for the rest, thank you to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u172	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the committee for the answer and also to my fellow Members for a very nice debate. To conclude, I believe that Mr Koffeman said that I was the initiator of this parliamentary investigation, but I was not. That was indeed the group chairman before that, who had been in this Chamber for 25 years and thought: why do we not make use of that right? So honor who should be honored. Since we are now on this subject, I would like to say something about what was called 'uniqueness' by Mr Flierman, so that the power of such parliamentary research lies also in its uniqueness. I think that's true. At the same time, it was said in that debate: you can take that back if it can last until the end of the day. At that time it was born as a sort of idea that you could do this in any parliamentary period, for example. By the way, the Senates abroad, in particular the House of Lords in England, have been taken as an example at that time, which are actually doing much more regularly and, in particular, setting up topics which are not normally discussed in a Lower House or a House of Commons. Hence the term "long-term issues." However, in this case too, I support what Mr Kox and Mr De Graaf have said. I asked another question about what I called an inconsistency. On the one hand, there is an enormous emphasis on legislative quality. We have a kind of manual for that and it is now even included as an annex. Everyone has to read that; that's mandatory. On the other hand, there is the relative embarrassment with regard to enforcement and enforcement of legislation, for which there are actually much less indications but which you can see the Chamber is going to deal with how to deal with it. The example has been mentioned of the financial committee here that is in the process of doing so. That is precisely where there would still be something to develop. I would like to hear a little reflection from the chairman of the committee. As far as Europe is concerned, in the event of interruption, I indicated that there is still a question of principle before us. Then Mr Flierman replicated: well, then you have to bring that up. I can tell you that I do nothing else. In my contributions to the European Reviews, but also in the EUZA Committee, I always try to make that point, but I think we should do it with each other. I'm sure there'll be an opportunity to talk about that again. When it comes to the Permanent Representative, we now have one, as the President rightly said, and it appears regularly in the EUZA Commission. Perhaps we could make even more use of this, in the context of knowing what is going on in Brussels as early as possible in the legislative process. There had already been some kind of interlinkage with the question whether, if we could use limited resources, those funds would not be spent on group support, because group support could also be for the stronger inclusion and review of the European dossiers in the political groups. That is why we supported Mr De Graaf's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u174	Mr. Chairman. It is good to note that we have actually reached a great deal of agreement in this debate, which also means an additional compliment to the members of the committee, who seem to have done their job very well. In this house, it is a good habit to give space to the views of minorities. So in that sense, we can see from the little bit we don't agree on, maybe see what we can do with it. In this context, there is also every reason to take back the comments made by the minorities by not giving the committee and the committee a decharge at least yet. I am thinking, for example, of the comments made on the snapchat mode of motions, i.e. motions that spontaneously disappear after six months, resolve and become invisible. A number of groups in this House did not accept that. Its functionality has not been conclusively demonstrated. So let's look again at whether that can't last a little longer and what practical objections it would cause to extend or not at all. I have just taken into account that we could take three times as many trainees as we would if we chose one Permanent Representative. Well, that's worth a review, too. My group also calls for parliamentary investigations not to be limited, but rather to be encouraged. Mr Kox pointed out that we are doing very little, and the time we have done it, Mr Kuiper has done it formidablely, albeit on the initiative of his predecessor, but nevertheless. There is still some uncertainty about the decision-making process. The committee has actually provided an amended Rules of Procedure, which could be adopted automatically. However, that is less obvious at the moment, because of the fact that two motions have been tabled and a number of comments have been made which the President has indicated: well, we are taking those comments with us and we are going to look at them carefully. Well, that won't work tonight. So I suggest that we come back to that at another time and see how we deal with the recommendations. Finally, I would like to return to the example role that Mr Faber aspires to in terms of reaching out with the group support offered. As part of this example role, it would be nice to know how much the PVV Group has returned to the First Chamber in recent years and then to know what happened to that money and whether it might still be available to the other groups, although Mrs Faber does not want to make it available directly. But when it goes back to the general resources, I think: well, let's all take another look at it. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Koffeman. I would like to ask Mr Flierman as chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber or his committee to answer directly or to have a few minutes of consultation. You can answer directly? Fine. I shall then give the floor to Mr Flierman, Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their second-term responses. Mr President, I think I can see, but perhaps at the end of the debate you will do the same, that there is broad support in the Chamber for many parts of the committee's report. I think I have detected four subjects that I concluded after the first period that we should look at again. It concerns the permanent representation in Brussels, the openness of committee meetings, the support, the functions and the role of a thematic debate and perhaps also parliamentary research. As far as the latter is concerned, on the basis of our reaction and what has been said in the House's second term, we can at least see that there is consensus on this. I will come back to these three other subjects. I would like to do so by responding to a number of comments made by Members in the second term. I am not going to go through all the comments, because in a number of cases these were rather points or comments which were directed at colleagues or which led in conclusion to the remark 'we can use them' or 'we might take that back to the group'. This brings me first of all to Mr Nagel and to the motion he has tabled on the openness of committee meetings. As a committee, we mentioned the considerations that led us to the next suggestion. The content of committee meetings shall be public unless. Procedural meetings are, in principle, not open to the public, but the ones traded there are simply public and can also be communicated. We have made it clear, even in my first-term reply, that we have some hesitation about its added value and that we have doubts about the practical implications of the introduction of an audio system and how it should take technical form, without prejudice to the fact that we want to look at the possibility of creating facilities in this area in temporary housing in new buildings. I have given you these considerations. But if the Chamber, considering everything, concludes, on the basis of Mr Nagel's motion, that there must be such openness, then of course that is the case. It is up to the Chamber to give an opinion on that. The same is true of Mr De Graaf's motion on support. We note that there is support for this in a number of political groups. We will see how broad that support is when the motion is put to the vote next week. If the motion leads to a positive verdict and is accepted, then we will consider a proposal to deal with it in an appropriate manner. I think that is also a task for the House's committee. Mr De Graaf, and I also thought Mr Kox, referred to the rapporteur for the committee meetings. I have already said that, but that also seems to me to be something in which the committee concerned can initially make its own choice. In a number of cases, we are already doing something that is at least close to that. I myself have experienced a number of cases in which one or two members of the committee pre-worked by preparing a meeting and considering which people could be invited as experts. I am thinking of debates on the Environment Act, debates on certain legislation in the sphere of care and all the discussions on donor registration and the electronic patient file. So there's all that's going on in that area. And if committees want to further experiment with that and explore forms to do it in a good way, then of course we are fine with that. It's possible. This is all part of the area that we say should not be formally regulated, but if the committee so wishes, of course there is room for that. Mr Schalk asked further about the way we would then deal with the holding or dropping of motions. The staff has made me aware that I would like to add here in the second term that it may be obvious that the petitioner is asking whether a motion can be held or that it should be voted on. But, and that is also the experience in the House of Representatives where a provision such as this is in force: you should not limit that in the rules to the petitioner, because there may also be situations where the petitioner is no longer a member of the Chamber, or where even his or her group is no longer a member of the Chamber. So it could also be someone else who makes that request. So we would not like to make that provision in the Rules of Procedure, without, of course, without prejudice to Mr Koffeman's comment, which says that I do not need to do so at all. Mrs Faber said that I did not answer one question from her, namely the question about the systematic use of procedures. In the first term, one of the Members used the word 'filibustering' as an example of the abuse of a procedure, as we should not want it to be. It is interesting to look at differences between countries: in the US it is part of the political culture to do it if you want something. However, to Mrs Faber's question, I would like to answer that the deliberate use of procedures to delay legislation or to speed it up, because the opposite is, of course, also happening, see the discussion on urgent proposals as well as a number of other examples that have been mentioned. In this respect, I believe that care and quality are always paramount for the Chamber. You will understand that, as chairman of the committee, I am not going to dwell on the specific case that was under discussion here. I can tell Mr Lintmeijer that we are now also working proactively on improvements to the PerfectView system. I did not mention that in the first term, but it will be done. Finally, I come to Mr Kuiper, who said the necessary thing about the frequency of parliamentary investigations. Our view is: don't do that too often, because then it might be that the credibility of the instrument is failing. See also the comments made in that regard on motions for resolutions. But if, from time to time, the Chamber considers such an investigation to be useful and there is also a theme that really lends itself to it. The only thing we have wanted to say is that there are a number of rules for this, and we do not need to lay down in advance that it will happen so often once per period, twice per period, or just so. But it's up to the Chamber to make that choice. Mr Kuiper also pointed out that, in fact, I do not agree with him that the committee seemed to speak somewhat double-heartedly or with two mouths when it comes to the following. On the one hand, there would be attention to the quality of legislation, with reference to the annex in our report, an annex that we have even, knowingly, added to the main report. On the other hand, our committee's attention to the feasibility of legislation would be reduced, and we would be a little more on stocking feet there. I would like to point out that, in reply to a comment by Mr De Graaf, I undertook to add a further elaboration of an implementation test to these points. Insofar as this is not possible, it will be included and we will therefore continue to strengthen the guide for Members not only in terms of the quality of legislation but also in terms of assessing the feasibility of legislative proposals and, as far as this is concerned, further balancing. I would like to argue that the committee did not pay sufficient attention to implementation tests. In fact, we have also made a number of recommendations in the discussions among ourselves and looking at how this is going in the ministries, in order to ensure that the Court is given more often the execution test. It must then also have a toolbox to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u177	It was certainly not a reproach to the committee, but I asked about the relationship between these two aspects and your reflection on them. You've given it to me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u178	Fine. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Koffeman asked how we are actually going to proceed with this discussion. My expectation is, but I also look at the chairman, that we will be voting on the motions next week. On the basis of the statements made there, the Houseary Commission can prepare concrete proposals, both on the openness of committee meetings and on political budgets. In any event, the proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure may then be voted on in a sitting shortly thereafter, for example within two or three weeks. They need to be translated in concrete terms. Mr. Chairman. That, I believe, is at the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u179	Thank you. As President, I would like to thank the committee very warmly for the way in which it has carried out its duties, for the way in which the report has been produced and for its official support. It's a really clear and good report. The debate today has also shown that more than 90% of the recommendations are agreed. A few points have been made by both the chairman of the temporary committee and a number of members: the representative in Brussels, the budget for the political groups and the openness of committee meetings. Those three subjects have been mentioned and the subject debates have also been discussed. With regard to these issues, I would like to say the following. First of all, the debate on the subject. I don't think that should be a problem at all, even. Proposals can always be made about this, which is decided upon in the Seniors' College. That is what the self-limitation of the Chamber as a whole is for, to see what we do and what we do not do. So I guess that doesn't have to be a problem. Let me now turn to the representative in Brussels. We heard the discussion. I think it would be wise for that to be reviewed in the House's Committee. In principle, the majority have serious reservations about whether it should be. I think that is a very clear signal for the House's Committee to take on board. In any case, what we in the House's Committee think about will come back to the College of Seniors. We heard that very well from the Chamber. Then there is the budget of the political groups. This is also the subject of Mr De Graaf's motion. As President of the Chamber, I can promise immediately that we will comply with it. The motion calls on the House to put forward proposals for a reasonable increase in the political group's budgets when the estimates are made. That signal is clear. The estimate must nevertheless be prepared, so I can say from this point on, and I think that the vote on the motion does not have to be taken. With regard to Mr Nagel's motion on the transparency of committee meetings, I would like to say the following. At the moment, it is not easy to make the necessary arrangements, not even the audio devices. When we temporarily move to the Hoge Raad building, on the Lange Voorhout, it is much easier to make provision for that. There are already more facilities in that building. At least we're getting a renovation. We can then make sure that every effort is made to organise committee meetings in such a way as to ensure that public access can be achieved. I would therefore also like to say to the Chamber and to Mr Nagel that we do not need to put this motion to the vote. In fact, we will do our utmost to ensure that, in temporary accommodation and in housing after the renovation, it is not so easy to have everything ready to make this public as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u180	As co-signator of both motions, I would like to consider holding both motions, in the light of the validity of at least six months. We can always see what we do with it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u181	I do not think this is necessary, because I have just said as President of the Chamber and as chairman of the House of Commons that we are going to try to carry out these motions as well as possible. I would be very unhappy if, for example, we had to vote on this next week. Some people think it should be and others don't. I think it would be wise to say, as President and Chairman of the House's Committee, that we are discussing this in this committee. The signal's obvious. We have a very positive attitude on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u182	Mr. Chairman. Excuse me for being a little confused, considering the conversation we had at the senior council. In that you yourself said that we should table a motion. So that's what I did. I don't think it's a problem to withdraw the motion you're asking for. A motion must be put to the vote unless it is detained or withdrawn. But then I should know that not only do you do something, but that this is carried by the Chamber. That is what this debate was about. If I hear from certain groups that have not signed the motion that they could support it in themselves, I would like to withdraw the motion. If that is not the case, then I have to ask for an explanation of vote, because otherwise it will stick and you will not know what the signal is. I am just looking at Mrs Jorritsma, at Mrs Van Bijsterveld, at Mr Kox and at Mrs Faber. I must have an indication as to whether there is a majority supporting that signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u183	First of all, about what we decided in the senior convention on motions. That was the point made by Mr Nagel, who said: listen, I want to have a change to that; I come up with a proposal that we are discussing with the senior citizens, after which it will be discussed again in the temporary committee. I have said that this procedure does not seem desirable to me. If that's what you want, you're gonna have to file a motion. So it's different from what I would have said: if you want something, you have to file a motion. It was more the story of "first to the seniors' convention, then to the temporary committee and then to look further." I wanted to correct that for a while. I read in the motion that the Houseary Committee is asked to put forward proposals for a reasonable increase in the political group budgets at the time of the estimation. What is'reasonable' must be assessed in the House's Committee. This will be submitted to the estimates. So that's what's on your plate. So we can vote on it. If that's what you want, we can vote on it next week. It may be that others do not want an increase at all. I would be very unhappy if it worked out so that there would be only 38 against and 37 for in a moment. I do not think that is the intention of the debate we have had today on the way in which the Chamber operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u184	De facto, we will be voting on this when the estimate comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u185	Yeah, but I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u186	My group is not enthusiastic about the proposal, to put it mildly. But if we have a chance to make our voices heard about it at the time, we do not need to vote on it now and we look forward to the proposals of the Houseary Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u187	That's exactly what I just said. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u188	However, I would like to make a comment about increasing the budget. You have already indicated that we are going to vote on the estimate, but I would like to stress that we are not in favour of an increase in the group budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u189	Good. That's very clear. In view of the intention of the debate that we have had and the fact that the whole Chamber can nevertheless largely agree with the recommendations of the temporary committee, I am simply trying to reach a conclusion that we can all say: it has been well examined and it is a positive result. And as I just said, to say right now at 38 to 37 that we want it or not... The Household Commission is going to examine the estimate. We are also going to look at the representative in Brussels. We have clearly heard that an important part of the Chamber does not really see anything in it, but that is being re-examined and submitted to you. So I ask the Chamber, or I will actually refer it to the Chamber, to follow this procedure. I think it is very good that we can all conclude this evening that the report of the Temporary Committee and the recommendations were almost completely agreed, and that we are actually very pleased with the report that the Committee has written.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u190	There is no doubt about the latter. If I have to repeat that, I am happy to do so, because we are all pleased with the report that has been written. I do not think that is the content of the discussion. I understand you're asking me to withdraw the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u191	I'd appreciate that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u192	I have listened to your explanation and given the confidence I have in the House's Committee and in those colleagues who are still hesitant whether they would support this motion, I withdraw it. I am a little surprised at this late procedure in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u193	Since the motion-De Graaf c.s. (CXXIV, paragraph C) has been withdrawn, it is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u194	You said that you want to prevent a 38-to-37 vote next week. We also want to avoid any need for pairing. In view of your positive approach to public access in the near future, we, in accordance with what Mr De Graaf has said, intend to withdraw this motion in unity at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-6.u195	Since the motion-Nagel c.s. (CXXIV, paragraph B) has been withdrawn, it is no longer a matter of procedure.
