ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. This is the first time in this capacity. I would also like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV Group as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Dutch asylum policy is completely bankrupt. While our country has long since been unable to cope with mass immigration, our borders have been opened wide open by the Rutte II cabinet. Indeed, all the asylum and immigration records have been broken recently. The Dutch citizen pays a far too high bill for this literally and figuratively. In this way, unfortunately, with the naive open border policy, the cabinet also faces a serious threat of terror to our country. After all, we know that terrorists often come to Europe with the flow of asylum. Asylum seekers have also been proven to be involved in the most horrific attacks in Europe. In this light, it is, of course, sad that the cabinet has been playing down this danger for a long time. This Secretary of State called it unlikely that terrorists would come to Europe with the flow of asylum about a year ago. It is precisely this attitude, this understatement that could cost our country dearly. How does the Secretary of State see his own misjudgement? Does he recognize that he's made a dangerous mistake? Unfortunately, the understatement has remained. This is also reflected in the fact that the screening of asylum seekers for potential terrorist threats is a very low level. That is the reason for this debate. Initiators reported a few weeks ago in De Telegraaf that the checks are as leaky as a basket, that the case is simply being set up. In addition, technical means such as the reading of mobile phones are often left unused. The Safety and Justice Inspectorate reports in its report that the objective of collecting signals about, among other things, terrorism is being achieved only in a limited way. In the same report we read that lack of time does not allow proper investigation into the identity of, for example, undocumented asylum seekers. This means nothing more and nothing less than that terrorists can enter the Netherlands unnoticed. The cabinet plays with the safety of the Dutch citizen and that is unacceptable. Of course the screening needs to be much better. The PVV also wants a firm guarantee on this, but unfortunately even with an optimal screening we will not get there. We need to look at the root of the problem and that is that anyone who wants to just come into the Netherlands to apply for asylum here. Everyone gets shelter; everyone gets a procedure, and even if the application is rejected, there are far too many people out here walking the streets. It is precisely this situation that is untenable. For a reason, the PVV keeps calling on the cabinet to close the borders for asylum seekers. That's what I'm doing now. Let the Netherlands no longer be the sweet raid that it has been for far too long. Finally tackle the problems at the source, I ask the cabinet again. I'd like a reaction to that. As far as asylum seekers are still here, or are still unexpectedly coming, they should no longer have the freedom of movement that they now have in view of security and the threat of terrorism. The PVV therefore calls for the closure of asylum seekers' centres. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore to turn it into closed centres, because no one knows exactly who is staying there. The cabinet itself has no idea of that either. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers come to the Netherlands without valid travel or identity papers. In 2015 alone, there were 21,000. Travel and identity documents are simply discarded to manipulate and train residence and departure procedures. The cabinet has no idea of asylum seekers using false papers either. The question of how often false documents are used could not even be answered by the cabinet. The cabinet therefore has absolutely no control over the situation. That poses a far too great security risk. The closure of azc's is therefore a must. I would like to hear a response to this point. I can leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. If you read the government's letters on the issue of migrant screening, you may wonder why we are debating this issue here today. The conclusions quoted by the government in these letters from the various reports give the soothing feeling that everything is in order, but the question is, of course, whether it really is. In this respect, this government is somewhat opposed. We always heard that crime was decreasing, but it became clear from a leaked report that crime was not the crime, but the amount of declarations was decreasing. Let me give you an example. If you keep it not only when you read the happy letters, but also in the reports that are now on the table, then another image comes up. The screening is far from in order and the communication between the different partners is marked with beautiful abbreviations such as AVIM, IND, NCTV, EMM and COA. Last week, they first got together. I asked about this in my questions 5 and 6. They were answered on 7 July last year, but the government did not accept them. Did she know at that time that it was not good, as the inspection report of January now shows? As far as I am concerned, pages 16 and 17 really give reason to ask some questions. All this is very worrying. The attack in Berlin, but also the threat level in the Netherlands and elsewhere, shows that we should not take any risks. Unfortunately, the identification and registration in the Netherlands have been showing gaps for some time now. The previous inspection report of May 2016 also concluded that the process was flawed. However, the leaders of Security and Justice did not want to know about this: everything is in order, go to sleep quietly. On 18 May 2016, the government wrote that everything went according to the process. However, the December inspection report shows that telephones were not and are still not being read out. On 21 December 2016, the Secretary of State wrote that all luggage was checked. However, the inspection report of January 2017 shows that baggage is not searched and that migrants can simply access it. On 18 May last year, the government wrote that everyone from 2015 had been identified. She wrote that on 21 December last year. And yet this inspection report shows that it is being looked at again. "Why?', That's how I ask the Secretary of State. Let us not talk at all about the fact that the inspection reports also showed that the services are not powerful in Arabic. How do you read something? The equipment needed to find out what was in the memory of phones if that was erased is not available. However, let me talk about it: is that happening everywhere? I've got a lot to worry about. The inspection states in its conclusion "that the checks are carried out within the existing possibilities." How can you conclude that if you know what I've been reading more or less now? That's what's in all these reports. Police and justice have also reported that the foreign identification and trafficking departments are doing more work than they can handle. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that? How many additional people are needed to ensure that everyone is identified and registered? One of the main conclusions of the December report is that there is insufficient time and equipment at all locations to carry out all the steps carefully and fully. In the meantime, has the government provided sufficient staff and equipment, so that we now have a good process and registration plus communication between all the departments as they should be? The most important thing is otherwise I will only hear a "yes" again: what does that prove? What shows that there is more investment and that there is more staff? What shows that there is so much more staff that what should happen in the interests of all of us is security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Rutte II is a danger to the Netherlands. Terrorists such as the perpetrators of the attacks in Berlin and Brussels can travel across our country unhindered. The asylum check also appears to be a total failure. I.D.s don't work for a second. Thousands of asylum seekers have now entered the Netherlands without having been properly vetted. Their phones are often still unread. The controls are as leaky as a basket. In these times of terror threat, strong measures are needed. Put an end to the open border policy. Strengthen border control and only catch asylum seekers in their own region. We ask the cabinet to hold asylum seekers who have arrived immediately until the AIVD has carried out a screening. Is the new Minister of Security and Justice prepared to do so? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Only in the fantasy world of the VVD has the Netherlands become safer. In reality, the number of crimes is five times higher than the official government figures, organized crime rules in many neighbourhoods and most of the reports do not take place at all. The ties between jihadists and criminals are getting closer and closer. Asylum seekers commit serious crimes, which are then withheld by the police. Deventer is an example of this. Citizens are thus losing confidence in the rule of law. That is why we really need to make a substantial increase in the budget for our security as soon as possible. VNL therefore invests 6 billion extra. Police, the Justice Department and the Defense Department are getting their strength back in our program. We're making our country safe again. The Netherlands deserves it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. The terrorist threat in our country remains substantial. That means that the chance of an attack is real. With this fact and the recent attacks in Berlin and Istanbul, it is not surprising that people are afraid that an attack can take place in our country as well. Media reports that the screening process of asylum seekers in the Netherlands is not in order increase uncertainty and fear. People are rightly concerned about the possibility that under the asylum seekers flow there are terrorists to the Netherlands. In the US as well as in Europe, the perpetrators of terrorist attacks are increasingly home-grown. That means they're from the country themselves. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security in his latest threat picture points to this trend for a reason. Nevertheless, we must continue to look very closely and carefully at the people who enter our country. So it's en-and. Not only do we want to establish who he or she is, but we also want to have a very clear picture of the motives with which someone in our country applies for asylum. My colleague Azmani wrote it already in 2015: it is difficult to distinguish between a real refugee, a lucky seeker and a terrorist. With an uncontrolled influx of migrants, it is impossible to prevent terrorists from finding their way to Europe. A lot of people didn't want to do that at the time. Fortunately, through the migration deal with Turkey, we managed to control the uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers. The number of people reporting at the border has fallen considerably. That will enable us to check them very carefully. That is what appears to be urgently needed. The latest Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, of November 2016, shows that jihadist organisations, including IS, have frequently used the same travel routes as refugees to travel secretly to Europe. The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security also reports that IS has used the asylum procedure in European countries to form or support dormant cells. So it's important to get every asylum seeker identified in the so-called ID streets. In these I.D. streets, first of all, we determine who someone is. In addition, signals on human trafficking, trafficking in human beings and terrorism are being collected. The latter has been intensifying since November 2015 as a result of an increased threat. The luggage is also checked, laptops and iPhones are subjected to a quickscan and read out if necessary, and fingerprints are taken and people heard. This trial is carried out by the Police Foreign Police Department and by the Royal Marechaussee. It is good that the cabinet itself has asked several times for an evaluation of this process. Both the WODC report and the two inspection reports presented today show that the quality of the screening process is guaranteed. That is important to note here today, because the VVD does not recognise itself in the image that has been outlined in some media in recent months, namely that the screening process of asylum seekers in the Netherlands would be as leaky as a basket. They are bad messages, because they only stir up the fear that people have and with which I started my contribution unnecessarily. However, there is room for improvement in the area of security. It is only natural that we know who enters our country and with what motives. We want to know whether we are dealing with refugees who are seeking safe accommodation here, with lucky seekers who are coming from a safe country but are still trying to get asylum here or here, and that is what this debate is about today with jihadists and terrorists who can pose a threat to our security. In short, this screening is not only to determine who someone is, but also to ensure that no terrorists enter our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	They are many words about screening and the distinction between happiness seekers and real refugees, but unfortunately these words mean nothing, because the problem is precisely that by the VVD and by the cabinet everyone who wants it has been allowed in. Even people with false passports and tens of thousands of people who don't even have identity or travel documents are allowed in and put in azc's. That's the problem. Do you recognise and acknowledge, in line with this, that this open border policy, which does not distinguish at all from those who enter, creates security problems and strengthens the threat of terrorism? It would be a pleasure for you to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	Has Mr Fritsma himself ever been present at such a screening process? The statement that there are people entering this country who haven't been screened is just bullshit. Every asylum seeker goes through an identification process here to determine who that person is and to find out if he has false papers. That process is in order, as was also noted in those reports. However, there are concerns as to whether the safety aspect is in order throughout the identification process. That's where things can be better, and that's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	There's nothing to screen when people throw away their travel and identity papers. Then people just come in. They use a fake name. There's nothing left to check. Even that is admitted in the inspection report of Security and Justice. The problem is that tens of thousands of people come in from whom you have no idea who they are and whose cabinet has no idea who they are, and who simply bring a threat of terror through the naive open border policy that the VVD is also responsible for. That's the problem. Respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	Again, I do not agree with the picture outlined here by the PVV. It's bullshit to say tens of thousands of undocumented people are coming into this country. We have a screening process here that now has two objectives. The first goal is to determine who these people are. At the moment when this cannot be established, no asylum procedure will be initiated. It's hard to start a status process if you don't know who someone is. The second aspect of the screening process, which is what we are talking about today, is that in recent years it has become clear that there is another problem with this stream of asylum seekers, and that is the threat of terrorism. That aspect, security in that process, is not secure enough. That is what we are talking about today, and there are still a few strokes to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	I devote my second interruption to this, because the VVD Group really has no idea what this is about. Actual questions have been asked to the cabinet: how many asylum seekers come in without papers? The cabinet itself said that in 2015 there were 21,000 asylum seekers who did not carry valid travel or identity documents. Mrs. Tellegen says they're not going into procedure, but they're all coming into procedure. That's the problem: they're all being taken care of and they're all getting a procedure. To the question of how many of these people received a residence permit, the cabinet replied: no idea. The cabinet has completely lost control of the situation. Mrs. Tellegen is running away from that. She says things that don't add up. It would be a credit to her if she kept to the facts and recognized the seriousness of the situation. If we continue with this understatement, it really does not end well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Fritsma refers to figures from 2015, but now it is 2017. We've taken some steps. There is a deal with Turkey which has drastically reduced the flow of refugees. The figures to which Mr Fritsma refers are therefore no longer very topical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	In any case, let me point out to the two right-wing Members that I would be happier with it if everyone who reaches Europe would come into an asylum procedure, but unfortunately I do not think that is the case. There's a part of the care there. Mrs Tellegen just started by saying that more and more terrorists are homegrown; at least that is the conclusion of the NCTV. So they're emigrated jihadists who come back. I did not hear her go into that point in her speech. I regret that, because there should be some of the solution to this very complex problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	I totally agree with Mrs Gesthuizen. We have a number of different groups here that we need to focus on. The group we are talking about today is that of potential terrorists who come along in the asylum-seekers' stream and those who have wrong intentions who want to enter our country by exploiting the asylum procedure. However, we are increasingly seeing a shift towards a threat from the inside, from within our own borders, from people who have a Dutch passport or from people who have a double passport, but have just grown up here, in the Netherlands, at a Dutch school and one day think: you know, I'm committing an attack. It's en-and. We've been very focused on that. We're still working on it to figure out how to combat radicalisation and the threat of terrorism from within. We've been very focused on returners. This is the third group, the asylum seekers, among whom there may be terrorists. To be honest, however, I think that the biggest threat at the moment comes from people who are just already here in the Netherlands. That does not mean that in the fight against terrorism we should not continue to use those three groups, because you must never assume that you have covered and solved it for the other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	It does not happen often, but I agree with part of Mrs Tellegen's analysis. However, I have not yet heard the beginning of a solution. I know very well that we have been allowed to deal with this law here ourselves, which we are trying to keep jihadists out of the Netherlands, but I would also like to look at the source. What are the VVD's concrete proposals to stop radicalisation and extremism before it is too late? I understand very well that we are having the debate here on the screening of asylum seekers, including those who are returning, but I would also like to speak very much about the source. What views does the VVD take to address this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	There is a very comprehensive plan for dealing with jihadism. That's two parts. On the one hand, it is about repression, so it is about dealing with returners and so on. On the other hand, there is a great deal about prevention. How do you prevent people from radicalising, standing their backs to society, liking it and attacking it? You can't start prevention early enough. There are many initiatives in schools and sports fields to ensure that signals of radicalisation are identified as early as possible. There is still a world to be won, because that is very complicated. Last week I had a conversation with people from the Ministry of Social Affairs, among others, about how to work more effectively in this area, because it is very difficult to identify those individuals early enough and then keep them straight or get them straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'd like to keep my second interruption right away. This is, of course, the nail on its head. That's great! Those plans are there, just as well, that there have been a lot of integration plans for a long time. Today, however, we must also see that a shocking report has been produced by DUO. It notes that there is already a failure of integration policy in schools. Is it not now important that this great coalition partner, of which Mrs Tellegen is a member, realizes that considerable investment is needed? A lot of people say, "It's gonna go wrong in our neighborhood." Police officers, teachers, child-care workers and youth workers, who have largely been cut off by the VVD's policy, say: things are getting out of hand here and we have human power and material shortages. Isn't it important that the VVD also allows those people to really do something about the radicalisation and extremism that are emerging? I do hear nice plans, but I do not see that the VVD is also willing to invest in those solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	I do not entirely agree with Mrs Gesthuizen. It's more than just planning. There's a lot going on. I've made a dozen work visits. Today, the cabinet comes in its letter with examples of case referrals to be made applicable to asylum seekers. In every Security House, every young person who is suspicious, who doesn't come along, who seems to drop out, who radicalizes, is in the picture. He's being watched. These are very effective measures where all the possible staff to whom Mrs Gesthuizen refers are sitting at the table to deal with this collectively. Again, if it's up to me, the approach is still too fragmented. The plan of action on jihadism contains too many loose measures in this respect, which, in my view, could be better combined, which should be less fragmented. But I do not share the view that nothing is happening on the side of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	Sure, there's plenty going on. But I'm not deaf anyway. I hear Mrs Tellegen's fine words, but I also hear the harsh and poignant words from the mouths of police officers, for example. They say, "Help us, we can't handle the work this way." This has indeed to do with the influx of asylum. But the VVD, which for the third time in a row has already delivered the Minister for Security and Justice, should certainly listen much better. Otherwise, it will run and I will go along with Mr Fritsma's words in the direction of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	I consider this an encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	I hear Mrs Tellegen say that identification and registration are in order. The government wrote on 21 December that in that process all luggage is checked and that data carriers are subject to checks and are read out. What does the government write yesterday on the basis of the inspection report? During the intervening period, baggage and data carriers of asylum seekers are not checked and asylum seekers have free access to their baggage. How does Mrs. Tellegen rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	It's too bad I don't have the pieces in front of me here, because I have another memory of what's in there. I now only have in mind the measures which the cabinet is stepping up. It means that every asylum seeker's luggage is indeed viewed and screened. However, the cabinet now indicates that in the time when the screening process takes place there, those bags are released. There is now a better control of that. That's my memory of the letter, but again, I don't have it in front of me right now. I don't have the exact text on me. Mrs Keijzer talks about telephones and reading data carriers. I was there three weeks ago. Every asylum seeker who comes in has to turn everything in. Each phone is subject to a quick scan. When there is even the slightest indication that there are things on there that they have questions about, it is completely read out. I've seen how it goes. Then you may indeed ask yourself whether it can't be done with better technology and whether it can't be done faster. There are many possibilities for improvement. But the picture that nothing happens at all and that it's one big cheese, isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mrs. Tellegen is like a government letter. What she's saying is what we're saying in those letters...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	I read the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	What she says is the same as what you read in the letters. The letter of 18 May also said that everything would be in order in June 2016. The letter of 21 December 2016 states that all luggage is checked and that data carriers are subject to a quick scan. But the inspection report says: "In the interim period, the luggage and data carriers of the asylum seekers are not checked." The government also included that quote in its letter. I recognize...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	Sorry to interrupt, but it says "in the intervening period."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	"The intermediate period" means that it lasts more than 24 hours...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	That's a very important nuance. Mrs Keijzer gives the impression here that that phone is freely available in all this time. It also gives the impression that luggage is not being checked. It would be nice if she also kept to the facts, because then we have a good debate here. "In the intermediate period" means 24 hours. So there is room for improvement, but during the whole process the luggage is looked at and the phone is read out. The recommendation means that it can be firmer during the period when such a person passes through the rest of the identification street. But that is quite different from creating the image that the luggage is not being looked at and that no telephone is being read out. That image is just not right. However, what is stated in the letter must be brought to the attention of the public as fairly as possible. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	Well, that didn't work out. I repeat once more: Mrs Tellegen looks like a government letter. I simply quote from the letter on the inspection report: "The inspection indicates that in practice it takes more than 24 hours for an asylum seeker on the ID street to be identified by the police. During the interim period, the baggage and data carriers of the asylum seekers are not checked for possible signals and asylum seekers have free access to their luggage, according to the inspection." I'm not putting an image here. The VVD puts an image here. I would very much like the representatives of the VVD not to parrot what the government writes, but to encourage the government to do what it says. This involves checking, identifying, registering and ensuring that there is sufficient capacity in the services so that the services can also exchange this information with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	It is very likely that Mrs Tellegen has read all the cabinet letters, but she has not read the inspection reports. Five inspection reports have been published in the last year and a half. Mrs Keijzer did indeed read literally for what the report says. The VVD Group may have the mouths of the Turkey deal, which has caused the number of refugees to fall. She is very proud of that, but despite that the screening is still problematic at the level that describes the inspection. If even at a lower inflow of the number of refugees the basic actions are not carried out within 24 hours, then screening is not going well. The VVD Group can just admit that, can't it? As the government's auditor, it can go beyond merely reading cabinet letters, while there are five critical reports. This will facilitate a good and honest debate. It also facilitates a better solution. I ask the VVD Group not to do ostrich politics. What needs to be done is to keep your heads up, recognise and tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'm just gonna read to you where I left off. However, there is scope for improvements in safety in the screening process. That's a phrase from my input. Mr Verhoeven of D66 blames me for not criticizing the way things are going, but that is not true. I just do not go so far in the picture that some parties are drawing up here. It is suggested that there is one big mess, but that is not the case. I also say that improvements are possible in a number of areas relating to safety in the screening process. I will ask a number of questions about this later, if I may finish. So no, I'm not 100% satisfied, but to paint the picture that it's one big cheese and that no one is being checked and phones aren't being read out and that luggage isn't being investigated... That's not true. I'm gonna distance myself from that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	The VVD often distances itself from independent reports of inspections containing critical facts. This is the way of political companies that the VVD has developed almost to perfection over the past six years. It is good that Mrs Tellegen wants to admit that it is not yet 100% in order and that there is room for improvement, but that is the euphemism of the year. We are talking here about basic actions which should take place within 24 hours, but which do not take place. You can say: there is room for improvement. There is always room for improvement, but I would like to hear from the VVD a more critical judgment. Only if the VVD dares to be more critical about the practice in which the screening is taking place can steps be taken. If the VVD does not control the cabinet, which again collectively is shaking no when the opposition is critical, then no steps can be taken. So let the VVD say more than: there is room for improvement. No, big things go wrong, basic things go wrong, the basics aren't in order. And that's what we need to fix. I would like to hear that from Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr Verhoeven will find that I still have a number of questions in that direction. If he's okay with it, I'm gonna do it now. When it comes to the safety risk in the screening process, improvements are possible. I assume that we are going to take these steps here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	For the VVD Group, it is two things that can be done better. Firstly, screening must be organised in such a way that there is sufficient knowledge in the identification street to be alert to the harsh and soft signals of possible safety risks. Can the cabinet indicate exactly how this is implemented? If knowledge in the services is available, for example in the counter-terrorism service of the police, then it must be ensured that foreign police colleagues carry out their screening work with more robust terrorist glasses. In his response, the cabinet states that it wants to make work of strengthening the learning capacity of the police and the KMar. Can the Cabinet indicate exactly how it's going to do this? In this context, the VVD welcomes the commitment of the Cabinet that cooperation between all partners, such as NCTV, the AIVD, the police and the KMar, will be further strengthened, so that people can be tracked even after the ID street. Humanisation is also very important. We must provide our main gateways, our airports and, above all, Schiphol with sufficient people, not only for the physical safety of the Schiphol area, but also for passport checks. We must take into account the growth of Schiphol in the coming years. The Royal Marechaussee has the legal task of carrying out that border control. Although an occasional 135 FTE has been added to the Royal Marechaussee by the Cabinet for 2017, this is not a structural solution. At the moment there are discussions between Schiphol, Security and Justice and Defence about what is needed, perhaps already this year, but I also hope for the next few years. I would ask the Cabinet to inform the Chamber about this before the formation, so that we can see it quickly. We must invest not only in more people, but also in innovation and modern screening opportunities. What is the government prepared to do in this area, so that both at Schiphol and in the ID streets can be detected faster and more effectively whether or not ID documents are counterfeit? Are we working with these optimal techniques and devices to, for example, screen a phone with 15,000 photos faster? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	It is nice that the VVD dares to ask a number of questions to the cabinet. That's very brave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	What cynicism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	In De Telegraaf of 17 January, Mrs Tellegen was a lot more firm. Then she said that the AIVD should be included in the screening by default. If it required more manpower, the liberal would want to arrange it according to the newspaper. What about the VVD's plans? Those are solid lyrics. I would like to hear what the VVD is doing with this now, including in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	I just asked about that. If Mr Verhoeven has listened, he has heard that I have asked exactly that. The VVD is about the security aspect being more firmly anchored in that identification process. When I was visiting, I noticed that there are people from the foreign police now, but none of the police counterterrorism department. So there are no people there with terrorist glasses looking at the asylum seekers, but that is what I want. I want the identification street to be better anchored with regard to the security aspects of these asylum seekers. The cabinet states in the letter that it wants to increase the learning capacity of the foreign police. That does not go far enough for me, because I want to hear from the cabinet how it is going to ensure that security is better secured in that screening process. Whether this is done by better trained people from the foreign police who know what to look at or by bringing people from the police with a greater sense of counterterrorism into the process, I don't care. It has to be tighter, because the screening process is currently focused mainly on identification, even though the whole Chamber has established that a new component must be added to that identification, namely security and preventing terrorists from getting into your country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	I hear Mrs Tellegen use words such as 'plus' and'veranking'. That's policy language, but in De Telegraaf the VVD says: there's just got to be money for the AIVD. The cabinet has been making considerable cuts recently and it was therefore up to the opposition to get some money back. My question to the VVD is very simple: does the VVD now say tough things in the newspaper and does it ask policy questions in the Chamber to give the cabinet every opportunity to write positive letters on the basis of critical reports? Or is it the VVD and is the VVD really going to do something about the fish by putting in place measures that will make screening go better? That is simply the question of this debate. Windowdressing or action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	The last one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	Then it becomes a policy language for me too, because my question is: and how? Thanks to the latest inspection report, we know that forms are sometimes illegible. We also knew from previous inspection reports that the people in the services are often not powerful in Arabic and that they often don't know what it says. In addition, we know that there are simply insufficient staff in the Foreign Identification and Trafficking Departments. Expanding, anchoring and investing more: does the VVD mean that it is actually going to address these practical problems that I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	I am glad that Mrs Keijzer is now referring at least to the concrete proposals in the letter, because these points need to be improved. It is about keeping a better eye on the luggage, reading the phones and putting the right people into that screening process. In this way, we can ensure that the right people look at the security aspects of asylum seekers. That is exactly what we are talking about today, and that is exactly what I have been asking for. Tomorrow may be a policy language, but what I am concerned about is that the identification street is still too much focused on identifying and redirecting people to the asylum procedure. I want us to set up that street of ID, which is the official term, but unfortunately it is called so much so that the people of the security services and the police who know counter-terrorism are better anchored in it. I'm sorry about that word "ranked," but I'm just saying that they have to get in there in such a way that all the expertise is present on the spot. This also fits perfectly with the proposal already made by the cabinet, which is to impose a territorial order on those asylum seekers about whom there are questions. So there will be room to look more closely at the safety aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mrs Tellegen is now pretending that the intention of the ID-straten has only been to ensure security since last week, but that has already been established in an end-of-life plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u47	2015. So we've been a long time now, where it hasn't happened. I am therefore very curious to see what the government will come up with, so I will let go of Mrs Tellegen for the moment. If that is more of the same blah, I will come up with a number of concrete motions. Then we can see if the VVD is as tough as it was in De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. It is crucial for the reception of refugees to have support in our society. Most Dutch think we should protect people on the run. But people do not understand when the screening of refugees is seriously inadequate. When someone enters the Netherlands, it seems obvious to me that it is immediately being thoroughly examined whether we are dealing with someone who is fleeing terror or with someone who has terrorist intentions of our own. D66 has said it many times: politics must not talk people into fear, absolutely not. However, we must do what people can expect us to do to prevent attacks. It is therefore a crucial responsibility of the VVD executives on Security and Justice to ensure that no persons with terrorist intentions enter our asylum shelter. The Prime Minister had some big words about this. In condemning Trump's entry ban, he commented that our country should be alert to potential terrorists in the refugee stream. How does he reconcile this with the December critical inspection report, which once again concludes that the screening of asylum seekers is not satisfactory? How does he reconcile that with yesterday's inspection report, which shows little improvement as a result of that criticism? I'd like a response from the cabinet. The cabinet constantly comes up with new measures to make the Netherlands safer, new powers, extending all kinds of powers with new laws. D66 says every time: "We look at this with an open eye, constructively, but first put the basis in order. Do what is necessary first, do what is possible within the existing laws and rules." This concerns not only the recording of a telephone, 24/7, 24 hours a day and seven days a week, reading mailboxes or bringing and exchanging all relevant information already available between the various services at home and abroad, but also a thorough screening of asylum seekers. Those are basic things that aren't in order yet. The December inspection report shows a very different picture, namely that the lack of capacity means that asylum seekers are barely screened, at least not adequately. We just read passages from the report. There are simply too high demands on staff to signal terrorism among refugees, the WODC stated. The cabinet promised to get better, but even now the VVD claims to have stopped the flow of refugees, again it appears that the screening is not waterproof. One of the employees says: we can never guarantee that we will discover everything, and that is not the purpose of the ID-street either. As far as D66 is concerned, that is the purpose of the ID street: the aim is that it is the first screening of everyone who comes in and then has to wait for months for the asylum procedure. In the meantime, how long has this waiting period become? In that interim period, a person with bad intentions can simply go ahead. It must therefore be possible to determine whether someone has terrorist intentions in the first screening. Simple things like reading phones, checking luggage and translating Arabic texts must be taken for granted at the first screening of refugees. Then I'm not even talking about the readability of the completed checklist. It is not enough; it is also stated in the report. Is the Minister gonna fix this? A possible terrorist can slip through too easily. The first check is not thorough enough. He then waited months for the procedure to begin, in which terrorism cannot be properly identified. I wonder how many more signals should the report receive after six critical reports? With this policy, we cannot ask for citizens' confidence. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's gonna equip the I.D. Streets so that every effort can be made to pick out terrorists. I also ask the Secretary of State if he is willing to increase the IND capacity to reduce the waiting time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. If I hadn't been here, I would have been out on the Malieveld, because there is the demonstration against Trump's terrible first policy, the new President of the United States: borders close for people who are victims of ISIS, so for our allies. That policy increases the division and danger, and it excludes people, our allies. An asylum seeker is not a terrorist, but enters the asylum stream and there may be a terrorist or human smuggler in it. How do we get it out? I am concerned about what is happening at the moment, even after the two reports of the VenJ Inspection, the WODC report and all the recommendations that have been adopted, for which I also congratulate you. I am not talking about the specific implementation, but about the control of it. The cabinet must convince that security in the refugee chain is paramount and has a high priority. In my contribution, I am focusing on the most vulnerable part of this procedure, at least I think that this is the most vulnerable part, and I do not read back much about it if not nothing, and that is the after-travel. First of all, I would like to ask what screening at the external borders of the Netherlands looks like. We live in the Schengen area and in the first instance an asylum seeker in another country will encounter the first border guard or controller. We have the EASO for this in Europe. How many Dutch experts are working on this? How many other countries provide experts to the EASO? This is incredibly important, because with open borders, the fight against terrorism takes place abroad. If things go wrong there, we in the Netherlands have problems with that. A second point, which refers to a general standard, is the question of how to ensure that information from especially the AIVD, but also the STUDY, is not missed in the screening of asylum seekers. Let's start with the after-travel, because that's what I want to focus on. There are large stacks of requests from people who want to come to the Netherlands to be here with the rest of their families, who have already applied for asylum here. For example, the wife came first and her husband or her children travel after. What happens then? My info is that a passport number is requested in advance to check this. Then what happens if that passport number doesn't match? I have heard that nothing will happen and the journey may continue. Is that right? If such a traveler then arrives in the Netherlands and he does not want an independent status, but a dependent status of the person who has already received asylum here, he is not heard himself. He is not asked what his background is and what he has done in Syria. Why not? Why are these questions asked by people from whom you can assume in advance that they can pose a risk, not at the embassy of the country from which they travel? What about the first hearing of the person who has already received asylum? Is that first hearing performed in such a way that it is immediately asked whether the person has been married, what the husband or wife has done and whether there are children? There will have to be a good request, because that is the way to see the traveler too. What about the interpreters? They are crucial to this section. I hear that this is going to be cut back. I see I have to hurry, so I'm gonna ask the questions real quick. What happens when conflicting information emerges between one and the other? According to my information, nothing. Is this desirable or should there be consequences? What happens to the so-called "soft info"? The cabinet's gonna do something with it. I think that's very good. Something else, quite logical, would be that if an IND employee doesn't completely trust something, you would look at it again a month or two months later. Is that what's happening? I'm rounding up. I think it's the weakest place to check for followers. A very large group has yet to be dealt with. It is good that measures have been taken to improve the situation. It's always gonna be necessary, but it might have been a little earlier. And is it enough? It is precisely in order to protect people who fear for their lives that the screening of people who want to abuse them needs to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands must comply with international agreements on refugees. These agreements are inseparable from the principles of our rule of law and those principles are part of whoever wants to be in the Netherlands. That is why we do not want a refugee ban or an entry ban for Muslims from certain countries, as the US President has announced and introduced. That measure actually discriminates against origin and religion. Hence the justified global outrage. This measure is putting our noses on the facts again. Sixteen Islamic countries have been using such an entry ban for the Israelis for 70 years. It is understandable that America wants to improve security for its own citizens. The Netherlands wants that too. The cabinet has therefore rightly had a number of inspection reports issued. This shows that the initial screening of asylum seekers hardly signals possible terrorism or other crimes. Soft signals are sometimes lost in the web of various organisations involved. This is also apparent from the latest inspection report. The inspection concluded in December that the process of identification is now in order. However, one of the main objectives of this process is not or hardly achieved. Through that process of identifying asylum seekers, it is hardly possible to collect signals about trafficking in human beings, smuggling of human beings or terrorism. We received the letter from the new Minister of Security and Justice last night. In doing so, Minister Blok announced that he would enter into a national management consultation under the leadership of the NCTV. This should ensure that no signals are lost. Furthermore, the baggage of asylum seekers should be better monitored in the first 24 hours. Asylum seekers can now be kept available longer for further investigation. It is fine that these measures are taken, but then there are the other things that remain open. The Minister's letter does not go into that further. First of all, I would like to endorse Mr Recourt's comments on screening at the external border. That is where the screening should take place right away. This can indeed be done through the EASO process. Can the Secretary of State indicate how that has been done? They identify, but are they actually screened for potential terrorists or human traffickers? The Christian Union understands that it is not easy to identify signs of terror or trafficking in human beings. We understand that it can't be 100% watertight, but why doesn't the foreign police have equipment to retrieve erased data from mobile phones? Employees note that more and more phones they want to check, delete or reset have been deleted. That's a wipe sign. We need to be alert to this. It should not require an inspection report to take action on these kinds of disturbing reports in the newspaper. Our own organization must pick that up and be able to deal with it. There is also a lack of technical capacity and time. How long has the Ministry known there was a shortage of time and staff? Why hasn't human power been released before? When signals are transmitted, feedback from external services is only limited. So we don't know exactly what happens to these signals and where exactly they end up. That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether the identification process has, in any case, produced anything concrete before. Have there been any signals that have led to the detection of human smugglers or potential terrorists? Has national security been compromised before? I don't read about this in the inspection reports, but I read about it in the report of the WODC. That's three arrests since the end of 2014. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what this is about and where there is the discrepancy between the inspection reports and the WODC. According to the inspection it also appears that according to the COA staff, no information has yet been provided on radicalisation and the recruitment of jihadists. That's what I'm really worried about. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. How sure can we be that the controls that we are now carrying out will lead to the absence of potential terrorism and terrorists in the asylum procedure? How can this process be better designed? Can't we involve the AIVD right at the beginning of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr. Chairman. On the last page of the inspection report, it says that it is often not possible to detect trafficking in human beings, smuggling and terrorism in the screening of asylum seekers. Last summer, these shortcomings were already the conversation of the day. I then asked, at the beginning of the recess, if the Chamber could be informed. As far as this issue is concerned, we want maximum work to be done to avoid risks and to avoid danger. The answer to Question 7 of the written questions put by Mrs Keijzer, received on 17 January, worries me. Although employees indicate that they have sufficient time for the identification process, there are a number of processes where due to the time available they have to choose whether or not to carry it out in full. If I were the person responsible, I would like to speak to the staff of the department in question and I would like to know exactly what this is about. Has any of the rulers present done so and, if so, what came out of it? What is the risk and what about the possibilities of taking more time, as mentioned a few times? Have those possibilities been realized yet? The frustrating thing about looking back at terrorist attacks and all the misery associated with them is that there have often been signals, signals that have not been picked up or have not led to sufficient action. The example of North African wheeldrivers now being sent back to Germany by the Netherlands is also important in this light. That's just how we lose sight of people. Why are we not working together in Europe in this area? I'd like a response. After all, people who were aimless also pose a potential danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u52	Your last interruption, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u53	Yes. And that I still have to spend my last interruption on Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP, who, in general, always says very sensible things. D66, I believe, has made many proposals, tabled motions and called for greater cooperation in the field of information exchange between countries and between different services. Repeatedly. There is always a vote against it, including by the SP, or at least not voted in favour of it last time, because that would jeopardise sovereignty. Now Mrs. Gesthuizen says that we need to work better together. What does the SP mean by "working together" if it is not the cooperation that really leads to the improvement needed to get that information in the right place in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u54	It's always nice when you know exactly man and horse or man and back number. I would like to hear in detail later what the proposals we would have voted against are. What I mean by this is what we saw at the bomber in Berlin. He's traveled back and forth for a long time. He couldn't be returned. At some point, because he could not be imprisoned either, Mr Verhoeven has the impression that he is not very interested in my answer, but perhaps I am wrong to have the opportunity to radicalise. Someone who travels around Europe purposelessly, has the opportunity to go from Germany to the Netherlands and then when a hot potato is put back on the sign of Germany by the Netherlands, is a potential danger. Such a person cannot build a future here and cannot be returned to the country of origin. That's exactly what I'm talking about. I do not know whether Mr Verhoeven has made a very specific proposal on this point. I would be very sorry if we did not support that. I would be sorry if we did not support a proposal that the European Union says: we are going to ensure that it is not possible for people to continue to travel back and forth, and that is what we are going to take together as Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u55	First of all, I have just said that Mrs Gesthuizen always says sensible things. I've never shown any disinterest in her answers. That is not the case this time either, quite the contrary. Then I come to the proposals we have made. I admit that I had a misunderstanding with Mr Van Bommel about a proposal once. This was about external borders and not about the exchange of information from the services. However, I will ask Mrs Gesthuizen straight away. Then we're right to be clear. Would the SP be in favour of a mandatory exchange between the different security and intelligence services within the European Union? D66 is for that. A lot of parties are against it. I wonder if the SP is for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u56	I say quite honestly that Mr Verhoeven is asking me a bit about it now. I do not yet know whether Mr Verhoeven will put forward a specific proposal to that effect. If so, I'm going to listen very carefully to his motivation and then I'll put a plus or a minus on that. But then we will discuss this in the group, including those who normally speak on AIVD, Europe and Foreign Affairs. That is Mr Van Raak and Mr Van Bommel. Of course, we have this debate with D66 more often. There are many things on which we need to work together within Europe. Let me say first of all that I think you should ensure that countries that need each other on certain points always engage in cooperation. I don't know if that always requires a decree from above, in which you say: you will always do it this way. But if we see that it goes wrong, I would think it would be very unwise for you to say that you will continue to do so in the same way. I had this discussion with the Secretary of State last time, which is why I continue to insist on it. We can see that it went wrong with that Tunisian, who first stayed in Germany, then again in the Netherlands, then again in Germany. In such a situation, countries should simply join forces. Then you have to say: we do not want it this way. Then you have to say: we do not want people to be pushed from one place to another. Then two or more countries will have to move in together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u57	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u58	I hope that I have given a satisfactory answer. Otherwise, of course, I look forward to a debate on this in the second term, in which Mr Verhoeven may be tabling a motion. People who were aimless are a potential danger. I would like to ask the cabinet to pay particular attention to developments in the neighbourhoods. After all, most of the attackers have been resident in the country for a long time. It is terrible, but it is true: radicalisation takes place around us almost every day, without anything ever being done about it. I'm afraid this is the biggest threat. In this exceptional case, I wholeheartedly agree with my colleague from the VVD. Wars that are waged, and in which the Netherlands often plays a bad role, often provide a motive for people, especially young men, to radicalise. Many parties, with the support of false wars, have the blood of those who die in attacks in Europe. This also applies to the PVV, a party that always blames other parties for being responsible for horrible murders. Why don't we listen better to policemen, youth workers, teachers who tell us that the division is happening very early in life? Where are the government's plans to fight this? I mentioned the shocking study by DUO today on the total failed integration policy in schools. Does the government see that these factors are also of considerable importance in preventing extremism and attacks? We're very worried about terrorism. Refugees came to the Netherlands in large numbers last year. They are here, unlike us in many cases, stranger and sometimes come up with a difficult-to-control flight story. That is why the concern that arose following the attacks in Paris, Nice, Brussels and Berlin is quite understandable. But anyone who goes to work with refugees, whether here, close to home, or a little further away, sees vulnerable people in particular. A large part of them are also afraid of exactly the same fundamentalists as we are. Moreover, we can see that among them there are also the victims of Europeans who are not so keen on the rule of law themselves. Think of family fathers who gratefully make use of the fact that underage Nigerian girls are alone and abuse them, rape them and then leave them defenseless. That's also the asylum story. The story that shows us that we cannot simply divide the world and humanity into a good and a bad part. We must fight against all these forms of injustice. That is exactly what I expect from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. Let me start my story with a groundbreaking new insight: to keep burglars out of the door, it is useful to have good locks on windows and doors. With this you may not be able to keep experienced burglars permanently out, but you do offer your own home a basic safety and protection. An owner who doesn't end up with the reasoning that experienced burglars can get in anyway, we think for a bit naive and unwise. This metaphor urged me when we were preparing for this debate on the screening of asylum seekers who want to enter the Netherlands. How can we prevent asylum seekers from entering the Netherlands with evil intentions and practices? Are we doing everything we can? According to the inspection, the detection of terrorism and crime among asylum seekers is often difficult. Characteristic is that it usually happens in secret. They are, to say it in biblical language, "works of darkness." However, the fact that these evil intentions are difficult to bring to light does not relieve the government of its obligation to make maximum efforts to do so. The SGP therefore finds it worrying that this does not always lead to the desired result. The chorus in all the documents that have since been named and passed remains that the services "within the possibilities available" do their best, even do their utmost and apply improvements. Those words stuck with me for a while: "within the possibilities available." The inspection actually states that the time available is a major bottleneck. There's not enough time. That means there's not enough human strength. The fact that not all relevant information is adequately searched, such as the reading of data carriers and the baggage checks that have already been involved, puts the whole process at great risk. So we're gonna leave responsibilities behind. Security is one of the central tasks of the government. The SGP considers it impossible for the government to assume its responsibilities in this respect to be insufficient, or at least insufficient. As far as we are concerned, money should not be an argument for this in this case. The SGP believes that more money should be spent on security in the next cabinet period. But it would be even better if this cabinet already started doing that and I'm sure it'll do a little bit better. However, the cabinet stresses that guarantees of absolute security cannot be given, even if more staff are deployed. That's right, no more than good hanging and closing gives an absolute guarantee that there will never be a break-in. However, it is wrong to conceal the fact that the use of additional staff does help to solve specific bottlenecks. This remains too underexposed, especially in the cabinet response we received yesterday. I would like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. Addressing the terrorist threat is perhaps the biggest task facing this cabinet, and specifically what I see myself as a new minister of security and justice. This debate deals with an essential part of a whole package of measures taken by the Cabinet for that purpose. Yesterday, on my first day as Minister in the Chamber, all afternoon and evening in the First Chamber for the same purpose, I was dealing with three legislative proposals, all three of them aimed at tackling terrorism. For the answer to the questions now, we will do the distribution so that I will address the questions raised on security policy in general, the Secretary of State will address the questions asked about the identification and registration process and the Minister of the Interior will address the questions relating to the AIVD. The inspection report, as we sent it yesterday with a letter to the Chamber, indicates that the inspection concludes, as the Chamber knows, the inspection is an independent institution whose task is to be critical where necessary and to put the finger on sore spots, and that the main points of the procedure are in order. The inspection also highlights: be realistic about the possibilities of detecting terrorism within this process of identification and registration. Sure, you have to use those instruments with full force. That's what the Cabinet does. But, says the inspection, be realistic. The inspection also indicates that the hard signals are being properly picked up anyway. Hard signals are also the type of signals that can form the basis for criminal prosecution. Soft signals are also being picked up. In the fight against terrorism, soft signals are crucial. If people have terrorist activities in mind, they will, of course, try to keep all the hard signals out of the picture. Chances are pretty low that someone will hold the phone he used to call Syria or text in his pocket until the moment of this procedure. The vast majority of the people who come into this procedure have come across land in this procedure. So they have already travelled through the Schengen area, and also partly traveled through the Netherlands. That does not alter the fact that we consider this procedure to be crucial. The asylum application is therefore always subject to this screening. With regard to the soft signals, the inspection says: they are taken into account, but it is important that the division and succession between all those services, which do their work individually well, but which must combine that information, the Royal Marechaussee, the police, the IND, the AIVD where that is at issue, the Public Prosecutor's Office is more structured and that it will continue to do so, because the fight against and monitoring of people with terrorist intentions means that you must constantly combine soft information and keep track over time whether someone you suspect on the basis of that soft information may be engaging in behaviour that will make it necessary and possible to intervene. That is where the specific recommendation of the report received by the Chamber yesterday is addressed. Mr Fritsma asks how serious the threat is for terrorists to abuse an asylum procedure. Terrorists or people who are considering terrorism can inevitably come to Europe by various means. In the meantime, there are concrete cases of attackers who have used the migratory flow and have been hiding between asylum seekers. In the Netherlands, too, investigations are ongoing into persons who have opted for the asylum procedure and who may have terrorist motives. Because of the importance of the research, I cannot go into this more specifically. Mrs Keijzer asks whether there is sufficient investment in people and resources. I can say quite frankly that there is no shortage of people and resources. In the last budget, 450 million has been added to the Justice budget with broad support from the Court. An earlier budget has already added 250 million. In 2016 a total of 49 million was made available to the police, specifically for the purposes of migration. In this context, Mrs Keijzer also asked whether the answer to previous questions was already known that the communication between the parties was very poor. I am opposed to Mrs Keijzer's wording. Communication isn't "very bad." That's not what the inspection says either. The inspection says that there is room for improvement when it comes to the soft information. So that's a useful signal. The reason why the Secretary of State and my predecessor have requested these reports is to constantly give the Chamber and ourselves the opportunity to see whether they are working in the best possible way. It's human work. It is inevitable that mistakes will be made, but the best possible work must be done, cooperation must always be improved and the organisations themselves must make improvements. However, inspection reports have never used the wording that communication would be "very bad." Mr Bontes asked about the link between criminal and jihadist networks. I am sure he will also refer to the interview on this subject with Mr Schoof. Unfortunately, it is true that these links exist. This observation shows that the services are on top of that, but it is an additional reason for concern. Action will be taken where necessary. Mrs Tellegen asked how the cabinet will ensure that we adopt the inspection recommendation to increase the learning capacity of the police, the Royal Marechaussee, the IND and the COA. We are now committed to making all staff involved in assessing the asylum flow very alert to different patterns. It's really about recognizing behavior. Unfortunately, you will never find the ISIS membership card between the washcloths in the luggage. So it's about the soft information again. So you have to be very sharp on why someone behaves the way he behaves, why he reacts differently and what he says in other places. That is why this process does not suddenly end when the identification street has passed. If this is justified, the services remain very alert. We equip the employees by means of trainings and by always incorporating the latest insights that we gain in the Netherlands but which we can also gain from other Western countries, in these trainings and in the work processes. The checklists are also constantly updated in the light of new experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u61	I have one more question on this last point. I have also drawn attention to this in the media. I've got the checklist right here. I would like the safety component to be more firmly involved in the screening process. I hear the cabinet says we're going to train the foreign police even better to look for those signals. However, I would very much like to see a pit stop'security' on that street, to say the least, so that, in conjunction with the ban on the area, which the cabinet itself is now proposing, there is a more important moment of standstill on the subject of security. It's already in, but I don't think it's strong enough yet. Wouldn't it be easier and better if, for example, we replaced one foreign police officer with someone from the counter-terrorism department of the police, so that you already have those glasses physically in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u62	In that street of ID, on which the Secretary of State will go further, the subject of security is prominently on the agenda. That's what the inspection notes. In the metaphor of the pit stop, I would like to warn you very strongly. Precisely because it is about soft information, you will not say "okay" or "okay" in such a pit stop, but "keep an eye on" as a cause of concern, such as certain behaviours, something in the luggage or something on that phone. That "watching" can take weeks, because more information needs to be collected because we want to know, for example, who else is in contact with. Therefore, it is not a solution to simply insert a specific moment or person into a procedure. That is why the core of our response, based on the opinion of the inspection, is to ensure that soft information is better and more structuralally combined. So it's not just a pit stop moment, but a structural follow-up. So it may well be that people are asked in every consultation: what more do we know, is there still cause for concern or is there perhaps reason to act by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u63	The risk is that there are terrorists in the asylum seekers' stream. That's what we're talking about here today. Those people do not have that on their forehead, nor do they, as the minister himself says, have an IS membership card in their luggage. This requires expertise and knowledge. I've seen how it goes in Ter Apel. There are the foreign police and the Royal Marechaussee. If a signal is picked up, it will be reported. Then there's a call to the police terrorist unit. However, I would very much like the safety component to be more firmly involved in this process. I hear the Minister say that there is and it is an ongoing process. I totally agree with him. After the identification process, the story is not finished. In fact, I would like it to be different, but we also have to abide by international conventions. It may be that, if you do not have a criminal base to refuse someone, someone with soft signals will actually enter the asylum procedure and then be followed. I am concerned that we should look more closely at the safety component in the very first process. Who better to do that than someone from the police trained to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mrs Tellegen now uses the phrase 'guarantees in the process'. I'm fine with that. Yeah, because a process isn't a pit stop. A process means that you do it again in the first process: the inspection indicates that that is happening but that you also do it in the follow-up process when there are those soft signals. This additional addition is made: organize a periodic meeting of all those involved. I refer to the police, to which Mrs Tellegen specifically refers, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the event of prosecution being prepared, to the AIVD, if information is needed from the intelligence service, and, of course, to the COA, because its staff are asked to be alert to the behaviour of people in care, which is also very crucial in the context of information gathering. But then we are indeed talking about a trial, not a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u65	Your second interruption, Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u66	We're not talking about a moment. Maybe the term "pitsstop" evokes a wrong image. What matters to me is that we are working on these safety aspects very early in the identification process, better than has been the case so far. The cabinet is right to say that we will then work better together in the whole process. I think that's a good thing. It also fits in with what we do with jihadists in the Netherlands. They are all also in a case-by-case discussion and in the Home Security approach. I think that is all very well; that is what I said during my speech. But is the Minister prepared to look at whether it is not more practical and easier simply to involve the right people in the further development of the way in which you optimize that learning ability, as it looks so beautifully?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u67	Let us assume that this permanent consultation, which we are now planning, and which we have had for the first time, shows that we must make adjustments to the procedure as it is. This may relate to the composition of the staff, which Mrs Tellegen is asking for, but also to something very basic like what are on the checklists. This may also cover new information on the type of people who apply for asylum at the same time and may have terrorist intentions. As soon as those signals are there, of course, we will process them as soon as possible in the screening process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u68	Just a little more time. That's good to hear. But that first consultation, which has now taken place, must lead to further lessons. Can the Cabinet inform us about this in the short term? In fact, it is still very vaguely described in the cabinet's letter. How do we deal with safety in that first phase? I would like to be specifically informed on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Chamber is very frequently informed about the progress of the approach to jihadism. The next letter is scheduled for this spring. I'd like to get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u70	It is hopeful that the Minister will indicate that a consultation is being planned and that it will be said in soft signals: keep an eye on it. Can I know a little bit more about what that looks like? The Minister did just say that these signals will at least be sent to the COA, so that the COA staff are well informed, but I can assume that this is not the end of it? And if other people have to keep an eye on the matter, for example, people from the police or other services, then I would like the Minister's firm commitment that sufficient capacity will be released for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u71	I've already indicated that there's enough capacity. I may not have been sufficiently clear about the collection of soft information. The COA will be one of the sources of soft information. It's not like we're gonna deliver that information to the COA. That's how I understood Mrs. Gesthuizen. No, we're just asking the employees, including the COA, to be alert about that. We're not just asking that, we're training them and giving their handouts about the type of signals. Of course, we can think of a few signals here: people are going to separate themselves or suddenly leave for a mosque which is known to be extremistly preached there. You might get that kind of information back from the police. We do not disclose the information of the AIVD by its nature. All that information will be combined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u72	I understand very well that the Minister sees the COA as one of the main sources, but it won't be the only source, will it? As spokesperson for immigration and asylum, I often visit work with or with the COA. I am concerned when the employees, who already have a lot of other things on their minds, are also the main responsible for picking up these signals, especially if we are once again faced with a greatly increased influx. I don't think that's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u73	In my opinion, I have not mentioned anywhere that the COA employees are the main source. I specifically mentioned the police and the Royal Marechaussee, because they play the leading role in the first street. I also mentioned the IND, of course, because it is very intensively questioned, primarily with the aim of establishing whether a person is the person he claims to be and whether he is entitled to asylum. The IND employees are given the explicit instruction, even at this time: pay attention to possible jihadistic signals. I did not mention the Public Prosecutor's Office for nothing, because there may even be preparations for criminal proceedings. And I may have said too much about the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u74	In order to protect society from terrorist attacks, what does the Minister think of the idea of securing asylum seekers who enter and then carrying out the whole screening process? You can then do it carefully and the asylum seeker in question cannot pose a danger to Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u75	Physically, most asylum seekers reach the Netherlands by land. Very few asylum seekers enter via Schiphol, which is a Schengen external border. The people who reach the Netherlands by land have already traveled a whole piece on Schengen territory and also a bit through the Netherlands to get to Ter Apel. At the time when they apply for asylum, the whole screening takes place, but people move within the Schengen area prior to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u76	I bet you do; most of them come over land. But as soon as you have them in your sights, as soon as you have first contact with a check, preferably at a border check, and preferably as soon as possible, should it be possible to secure them and then go into the screening process extensively? You can never stop them right at the border. It would be the best thing if you could. But if you intensify that, it has to be done to secure them right away and only then screen them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u77	It's not like you're holding every family from Syria or Eritrea right away. There is no legal basis for this either. In the letter that we sent to the Chamber, we wrote that if there is a need to examine someone more thoroughly, then signals have arrived in the identification street regarding the person in the interest of the investigation could be given an indication not to leave the shelter. But that's in the interest of the investigation. That is a different situation than to lock up every family applying for asylum in the Netherlands first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u78	Then you run the risk of being late one day and getting hit in the Netherlands. I would argue that we should do it immediately and then screen with the AIVD. Whether the AIVD or the police are ultimately responsible may be another discussion, but in our view that is the best solution at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u79	I indicated that in the letter we wrote correctly that if there is a reason to do additional research, and therefore there is reason for concern, we have the legal opportunity to say to the people: you must not leave the site until we have been able to do the additional research. However, I do not see any legal basis for the idea of first locking up any family applying for asylum here. To my taste, that is not desirable either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u80	This debate is now about the soft signals and the proposals of the VVD for a pit stop. That is all understandable in itself, but when you read the report, it is not about all that complicated stuff, but about things like luggage, phones, filling out the forms, the way the handwriting can be read, being able to understand the language that people speak and capacity problems. Can we talk about that, too? In my view, these are the concrete points that have been made and which can be improved, and a large part of the Chamber says that they should also be improved. I think the Cabinet wants that, too. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr Verhoeven's questions were among those of Mr Recourt, to whom I just came. So I will come to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yes, but it would be strange if Mr Verhoeven, as a sixth speaker, was the first to start talking about telephones and luggage, which is, after all, about the heart of this discussion. So let's get right to that! I'm not the only one who asked those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u83	I am going to serve you on the phones, but Mr Recourt's question was also about soft information. That's why this structure makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u84	I suggest you proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr Recourt asked whether we are really sufficiently alert to the soft information. I hope that I have just indicated in the reply and in the debate on the interruption that we are aware of this precisely because of the new consultation structure, in which we really have the services consulted at this stage. Mr Recourt also asked whether the IND could make an additional contribution to one of the key partners in this chain. That's for sure. If there are signals that raise questions about the right of residence or identity, the main question for the IND, there will certainly be a further hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u86	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u88	It was just something else that was bothering me. If I read it correctly, the phone will be checked. If you see someone with flags, on the battlefield, or I know what, you've got something concrete. That's what you're referring to or you're calling the police or whatever. I can also imagine that IND employees think, just in the case of double-soft information, to put it that way: this doesn't feel good, this doesn't make sense, but I can't quite put my finger on it. If I read the report correctly, please refer it to other agencies. The question is whether the IND will have the space to say: we will visit again in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u89	Sure. The IND does not have an obligation to issue a residence permit immediately. If the IND has reason to ask again if an extra hearing and extra research is needed, then that space is there. Then I come to Mr Verhoeven's questions. Some of Mr Verhoeven's questions will be answered by the Secretary of State. He did ask about the legibility of the phones. I shall begin with the observation made by the inspection, namely: be realistic about the contribution this part of counter-terrorism makes. Mr Verhoeven is quite right that telephone or internet traffic can be a crucial source of information, but reading a phone is not necessarily the most effective way to follow it. That is why Mr Plasterk is going to speak to the Chamber shortly about the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. A completely unsharp terrorist will, of course, use a different phone for his contacts with Syria and Iraq than the phone he takes to this procedure. If that law is passed, we will at least be able to map the telephone and data traffic, even if that phone is not taken to this research street. At the moment, the password of each phone is requested and then the phone is viewed. Sometimes there is reason for a more in-depth investigation. At the moment, this is already happening on one in three phones. That's very frequent. The police have the equipment needed for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u90	Then I'll finish my first half-interruption of just a moment. It is very much a question of whether the law, which I will be discussing with Minister Plasterk next week, is not necessary for the example given by the Minister here. After all, there is already a power to target the cable. This example seems to me to be a targeted and not an unfocused example of what Minister Plasterk's law is about. Let us not dive into this didactics, semantics or themes, because we are talking about this all night next week as far as I am concerned. I have to fill in my speaking time, but I'm sure it won't be short. I just wanted to get back to today's topic. The people who work on that IND street can never guarantee that they'll find out everything. I think it is right that they say that, because they can never guarantee 100% safety. We shouldn't and we shouldn't want to do that. The cabinet is right about that. But they also say it's not the purpose to discover things. I'd like to talk about that for a while, because discovering things seems to me to be the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u91	Those employees have the tools to do the first checkup. If this is necessary, read-out shall be carried out by additional technical means in one case in three cases.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is indeed done with the aim of gathering information relating to possible jihadist activities. I very much disagree with Mr Verhoeven that this is something quite different from the debate on access to data traffic. This is part of the crucial fight against terrorism. It is not the most crucial part, as the inspection itself says, but if we are all concerned here about reading phones, and I think that is a very justified point, then we cannot pretend that it is not possible to follow unfocused information as a whole. The people it's about will try to stop their phones from entering the screening street, so you won't have anything to tap. Just about the people who will try to prevent a phone from coming into the picture with all its power, you also want to be able to collect unfocused information. That is really not a different subject. It is at the heart of the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr Verhoeven, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u93	No, I didn't really need to respond...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u94	Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u95	But now the Minister of Security and Justice is going to say things about a law on which the Minister of the Interior is concerned and which is not even entirely correct. The difference between "directed," "research-oriented" and "undirected" is really a bit more subtle than the minister makes appear. I think he's slippery on ice, but he won't be using it right now. I asked a question about reading phones, and he is now talking about a law that we're dealing with next week and whose contents he doesn't know. I think it is unwise, but do not use it at the moment, because I do not think it is fancy because the Minister is only in office for two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u96	I respond so sharply to Mr Verhoeven because the suggestion that this has nothing to do with each other is very incorrect. The beginning of my speech was that I think that the fight against terrorism is perhaps the most important task for myself and for the cabinet at the moment. Mr Verhoeven will have to forgive me if I respond very strongly when it is suggested that taping the phone that someone is carrying would be more crucial than the instruments that the Minister of the Interior will come back to. That is what the Minister is doing on behalf of the cabinet, so I feel very involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u97	The Minister does not have to be so annoyed because I remind him that he confuses words like "tap" and "read out." I want to do it accurately. I have admitted that next week I want to talk about this law very well and that I want to think about a law that will improve the fight against terrorism in the country. If the Minister then says wrong things to me and I let that happen in a proper way, but then gets to know that the Minister is irritated because he is so keen to fight terrorism, then I would like to say that too, but let us do so on the basis of the facts and not on the basis of bullshit stories and frames, which I hear constantly from the cabinet, about additional powers, of which the question is whether they work. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u98	Boy, and this isn't even on the agenda today either. Back to what I think it's about. The minister says all phones are being read out. What about the Arabic of the people who work on the ground? And is there equipment everywhere to retrieve the contents of erased phones?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u99	There are plenty of interpreters present. For the one in three phones that are referred for follow-up investigation is available from the police equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u100	My question wasn't whether they're being read, but what happens when they're erased. The December inspection report said that there is no equipment to retrieve erased material. Is it all over the place by now? And that interpreters are present is beautiful and very beautiful, but the Minister has told us that all telephones are scrambled. Scrolling is beautiful, but let me make a confession: you can give me a phone in Arabic and ask me to scroll through it, but you might as well ask me to throw it in the water, because I won't get anything out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thanks for this confession, but I.D. staff can call on interpreters. Again, the fact that in one in three cases a telephone is examined in more detail shows that very often more careful research is done on top of viewing text and, nowadays, a lot of photos. Mrs Keijzer and Mr Voordewind asked if there is any equipment available to read out erased phones. This takes place during the deeper follow-up investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u102	That's not what I asked. Is there equipment available at all locations where people are identified and registered to retrieve the contents of erased phones? That was my question. I fear that the answer to that question is no, because why else would the Minister be so concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u103	The point is that that phone is at the location where the equipment is. If that equipment is in the police department, that doesn't seem to me to be the problem. At the heart of the matter is that the telephone can be read out quickly if there is reason to do so in the first screening in the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u104	The fact that someone knew his phone, isn't it reason to think something's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u106	Well, why don't you make sure you can get the information back on the spot? The Minister sails around with ease, while report on report indicates that things are fundamentally out of order. If you suddenly get tens of thousands of people over in 2015, I understand that it is not right the next day. But if a report on report shows that it's still true, I don't understand why you almost have to do close reading to find out exactly what's going on. That's worrying. That is worrying if you admit here at the same time that combating terrorism is one of the spearheads of government policy. Saying that alone is not enough. You gotta do something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u107	I think that Mrs Keijzer is very careless in summing up the reports that the Chamber has received. Yeah, the reports contain clues to do things better, but the reports don't say it goes wrong over and over again. You really can't read that in there. Where improvements are needed, we will find them. The reason why we have these investigations is that we want to remain constantly focused, including in public, on whether we are doing well enough and whether we can improve things on points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u108	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u109	I quote from pages 16 and 17 of the January inspection report: 'During the investigation, the inspection did not detect any joint analysis of signals' and 'Through this, the soft signals of the various organisations......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are just quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u110	Certainly, and it is precisely the quotes about the soft signals that indicate in the cabinet response that we are making the necessary improvement on the soft signals. But these are not quotes that justify the words that Mrs Keijzer used in her previous interruption, that it would be a mess over and over again. That's not in these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u111	Your last interruption, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u112	I just talked about reading phones and iPads and checking luggage. In my term and in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Tellegen, I have indicated with some reference that it has been found time and time again that it is not in order. Then you can say here that it is not, but I'm just quoting from reports and I'm quoting from the report on information sharing. Are we going to have another report which shows that it is still not in order? That's impossible, isn't it? We are talking here about combating terrorism, about removing jihadists from the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u113	Since the term 'in order' plays such an important role in the debate, I also read from the report that the Chamber and I have received. To pag. 5 states: "The inspection concludes that within the police, the KMar, the IND and the COA, the reporting structure is in order to transmit strong or soft signals to the intelligence and security services. Soft signals that are not transmitted by these organisations through the reporting structure after internal weighing are then shared only to a limited extent." The latter is also precisely the reason for the additional steps. The words "in order" are therefore indeed included in the inspection report. Mr Voordewind asked first of all about a point I mentioned earlier in response to Mrs Keijzer. He also asked if the technique is available to erase phones, even if they contain a lot of photos, for example. The technique is also available for this purpose. Mr Voordewind further asked whether the identification process has so far produced signs of terrorism. Unfortunately, as Mr Voordewind also knows, there are already concrete cases in Europe of abuses of migratory flows by IS, of IS supporters who have applied for asylum in European countries. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, there are investigations in the Netherlands into persons in the asylum procedure who may have terrorist motives, but I assume that Mr Voordewind understands that I cannot make any further information about this in the interests of those investigations. Ms Gesthuizen asked what further plans the cabinet had for radicalisation. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that the measures we are discussing today are an important part of a very comprehensive package which my colleagues and I are working on and which we have submitted to the Chamber. The Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme comprises a total of 38 measures. It contains a wide range ranging from legislation presented here to cooperation with a wide range of partners at home and abroad. It also contains the element of prevention, which was an important question from Mrs Gesthuizen. Early detection of extremism or tendency to radicalise young people, for example, plays an important role in this. This whole package of measures will continue to be subject to constant review on the basis of new developments and the threat picture as to whether the measures are adequate or need adaptation. That is why this spring the Chamber is getting an update of the integrated approach jihadism. But this indeed contains the whole palette of prevention up to and including repression. Mr President, I hope that I have answered my questions. I would like to leave the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u114	The Minister indicated that there are investigations into asylum seekers in the Netherlands who may have terrorist motives. That's not nothing. Can the Minister tell us how many things this is about, about the countries of origin and whether these people have been detained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u115	No, in the interest of the investigation, I cannot make any further comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u116	I understand that, but we still have a problem. Experience has shown that people, for example, if they have already been punished, often have to stay in the Netherlands after a procedure or a prison sentence, because expulsion to the country of origin, for example Syria, is impossible because of that strange European Convention on Human Rights. So I would like to guarantee that we will not have a situation in which the potential terrorists involved will be stuck here because they cannot be sent back to a country like Syria under that strange European Convention on Human Rights. Can the Secretary of State say that? That is, of course, very important, because we cannot be stuck here with terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Fritsma is now talking, if I understand correctly, about the situation in which a person has been convicted, which will generally be condemned, and where there is, for example, an misunderstanding. Then the Dutch government's commitment will always be maximum in order to have that junk statement followed by an eviction. Unfortunately, you sometimes run into the practical situation that the country where you should be expelled does not take back nationals. I certainly cannot resolve that in the context of this debate, but I find that as undesirable as Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u118	That is what I am so afraid of, because the Secretary of State has said that people coming from Syria cannot be sent back in connection with that treaty. I am so afraid that these people, if they are punished, can just hang around in the Netherlands after their jail time because we are bound by the treaty, which means that we cannot even lose terrorists. That indicates exactly the vulnerability. It makes clear why it's so stupid to keep the boundaries open for everyone. Besides, there's a big danger that you can't even get rid of terrorists. Surely the Minister must understand that fear. I now understand that there are cases of possible terrorists in the Netherlands. I want a guarantee that if they're punished, they won't be able to walk around here freely after that. That is a normal question in the context of a debate on the threat of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u119	It's also a perfectly normal question. The situation which Mr Fritsma is describing, namely that someone has been convicted in the Netherlands, is declared undesirable and yet cannot be deported, I also find very undesirable. However, I do not think that this situation is a reason for anyone not to carry out the procedure we are talking about in a structural and optimal way. This means that we are very alert in the asylum procedure to the signal that someone has terrorist intentions. We will then take action to prevent this person from committing terrorist acts. We need to implement this process in a structural and optimal way. I assume we agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u120	One final question. If this threatens to happen, does the cabinet intend to denounce that treaty and ensure that we do not end up in the situation where we are stuck with terrorists in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u121	The cabinet does not intend to leave that treaty in the middle what "that treaty" is then to cancel. By the way, it does not offer solutions if a country says it does not take that person back, because it simply cannot allow that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u122	Do you doubt, Mr Fritsma? You can come back later, too. One last interruption, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u123	It is not about what that country does or does not do, it is about that European Convention on Human Rights. The Secretary of State has said that even people from Syria, given that treaty, simply cannot be sent back to Syria. If terrorists come from Syria, hopefully they will be punished, but anyway, they can't be sent back to Syria if they get out of prison again! That is the situation that nobody wants and which creates the European Convention on Human Rights. What is more important, the security of Dutch society or the European Convention on Human Rights? I understand from the Minister that this is happening now. There are asylum seekers who are being investigated in the face of terrorist threats. I just want a guarantee that we will not get the situation in which these people, after they may have been punished, can continue to walk around freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u124	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u125	Then the cabinet must also denounce that treaty, because the security of society goes beyond that weird European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u126	As Mr Fritsma knows, the Cabinet does not intend to denounce the European Convention on Human Rights. I also indicated that this thought experiment, if you did, would not provide a solution in the case of countries that do not wish to take their nationals back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u127	I have a question about the statements of last summer's NCTV, which then announced in the press that we are increasingly dealing with recurring jihadists interfering in the flow of refugees. Mrs Tellegen also mentioned this point. The NCTV also noted that people who do so use the asylum flow to come to the EU, but do not always mix in with people who actually apply for asylum. We are now focusing very much on the proper screening of the people who do follow an asylum procedure, but is this analysis still valid? For me, that is a matter of great concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u128	The cabinet is indeed also concerned about the possibility of returning jihadists. It was an important part of the laws I dealt with in the First Chamber yesterday. These included the possibility of withdrawing Dutch nationality from a dual nationality and the possibility of prohibiting entry for people in those areas. We are not only concerned; we are also coming to the Chamber with concrete proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u129	The Minister completely misunderstood my question. These are people who, often with false papers, use the flow of refugees to reach the European Union again. Often these are recurring jihadists. The analysis of the NCTV, as I was allowed to read in the newspaper last summer, was that these people, with the false papers, may be using the flow of refugees to get back ashore in Europe, but are hiding out when they arrive. The question I specifically put to the Minister is whether this analysis is still there. I think it is wonderful and important that we should have this debate. We should zoom in on this asylum screening, but this is another major concern, because these people do not end up in the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u130	That concern is still there. That is why I began my speech by pointing out that the procedure we are now discussing is very essential, but only one part of a much wider range of measures to prevent terrorists from reaching the Netherlands, or the Netherlands. can become active here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u131	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u132	I wanted to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer the questions I have asked. Mr Fritsma asked me again, because we have already exchanged this on several occasions, to look back at the qualifications that I have already given to the cabinet earlier on about the use of the flow of refugees by people with evil and jihadist intentions. I would like to point out that, from June 2015, the cabinet documents clearly state that it is conceivable that jihadists abuse migration routes in order to enter the EU in a collusive manner. Then, for example, more concrete information has strengthened and strengthened the information contained in threat images. I have indeed said, although not quite literally as Mr Fritsma said it, that it is not the most likely choice to go all the way down that route. However, it is still imaginable; it has happened. We see that most of the perpetrators who have been found so far are also on other roads that had access. It's definitely something we need to be alert and take into account. Mrs Keijzer asked what the process of identification and registration looks like. That starts with the asylum application, which does not necessarily have to be made at the time of entry into the country, as Minister Blok said. To get into the trial, someone has to apply for asylum. The foreign police, in most cases, or the military police, if the application is made at Schiphol Airport, will check whether there are any documents to establish the identity. It is most ideal if people have documents that can be checked for authenticity. It also looks at what is in the luggage, at the information on the phones and at biometric data. We have databases containing fingerprints and other data collected at the first entry into Italy and Greece. This will allow comparisons to be made, and perhaps a document was presented and recorded that was lost or lost somewhere later on. We take the fingerprints, the photos are reviewed and the luggage is checked completely. This information is recorded in the Basic Provision Foreigners. An alien number is assigned and a check is made in different databases: Eurodac, to see if someone has already applied for asylum in another country, and HAVANK the criminal database. If there are signals pointing to a threat to national security, follow-up steps will be taken. After screening and registration, the IND process starts with a registration form and a registered hearing. The IND shall also screen in that process on the basis of the information obtained from the police or military police identification and registration process. In addition, a search is made for information that can be found on social media. This information is brought together and included in the conversation. If, on the basis of coherent information, signals are picked up or suspected of identity fraud, nationality fraud, visa fraud, human trafficking, trafficking in human beings, war crimes or danger to national security, they are immediately detected and transmitted. These signals can then be shared with the other partners, which went well at the level of the hard signals and what we are going to strengthen at the level of the soft signals. The IND can therefore decide to follow the extended procedure, so that you have more time to follow those signals. A silent procedure may also be initiated towards the AIVD, which may be able to notify with an official message whether there is a danger to national security. The IND can therefore take foreign law measures. Mr Verhoeven referred to the waiting time in the asylum procedure. In mid-January, the average waiting period was about eight weeks, so it is falling considerably. Therefore, I see no reason for a redeployment or additional capacity at the IND, as we are catching up. Mr Bontes asked whether anyone could be detained immediately until the identification process was completed. The aim is to do it quickly. Someone's not stuck, but he's just waiting in that waiting room. He turned in his phone, the screening is complete, and he's being taken to the next location. We have made it possible for more time to complete the screening if necessary. In the meantime, a measure will be taken to restrict a person's freedom, but it is not legally possible to secure it altogether. Mr Fritsma referred to the proposal to close asylum centres. That goes even further than the previous question. Apart from the question of whether it is acceptable and whether it makes sense, it also affects proportionality. It then seems as if we assume that a very large proportion of asylum seekers are sending false signals. However, most people who apply for asylum in the Netherlands and obtain refugee status have fled precisely from the same people against whom we are also trying to defend ourselves and from whom they have been a much more direct victim. I don't think it's proportionate to lock down men, women and children on the run as some kind of criminal, because there might be someone between them we're looking for the wrong signals. I do not think it is proportionate to deal with people in this way, because the added value to screening and national security is not great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u135	The facts are different. I have just indicated in my speech that tens of thousands of asylum seekers do not carry travel and identity documents. They're just thrown away, and it's known. As a result, residence and departure procedures are affected and trained. I ask the Secretary of State to explain to me how he can guarantee that you will pick the terrorists out of tens of thousands of people you have no idea who they are and what they are doing here. I hope the Secretary of State can convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr Fritsma made a connection between things that were unrelated. Not having identity papers makes it harder to find out who someone is. Having identity papers doesn't guarantee that I can smell if someone is a terrorist. You're not looking for a needle in a haystack, you're looking for a piece of straw in a haystack. Mr Fritsma has always mentioned very large numbers. He talks about tens of thousands of people who are then linked to those who do not have valid identity documents. That's right, but it gives the impression that if you lose your passport, even if you throw it away, you're suddenly a threat to national security, a terrorist or a jihadist. I think that if Mr Fritsma loses his passport, there are no other thoughts in his head than before he lost his passport. It does make it harder to identify someone, but you cannot say: tens of thousands of people have no papers, so they are a danger to national security. That's two different things. We're both watching the first screening process, but you can't throw them at a pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u137	The question is to convince me that you're picking terrorists out of there. I also know that no tens of thousands of terrorists enter the Netherlands. However, if you throw away your passport, if you throw away your identity and if you throw away your travel documents, deliberately, to train procedures here and arrive with false names, isn't it possible to screen? You don't know who these people are, do you? Then you're gonna have to screen fake names. The Safety and Justice Inspectorate report also states that this is a problem. The Secretary of State has to agree that you're taking security risks and you shouldn't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr Fritsma is right in saying that it is easier to establish identity if people do not throw away their papers. Sometimes papers are found near an azc in a plastic bag, so they can be found later. That will certainly have repercussions and will be investigated. Fortunately, we are also working more and more with biometrics. It allows you to see in the systems if there's a hit, if you can find someone. Of course I prefer people to have their papers. I also think it is a sign that extra attention should be paid to the procedure, to people who don't have the papers or to a phone with a photo of a passport that suddenly they don't have anymore. Of course, those are signals you're working on. That's how you work. What we are doing is for national security to be alert to signals that indicate human trafficking, human trafficking, jihadism and terrorism. However, these signals must be there. Unfortunately, I cannot guarantee 100% safety. It's not a car wash where the computer says someone's clean or not clean. So you're gonna have to see what signals are out there. Of course, people with papers may also be subject to further investigation and there may be false signals. So there's no one-on-one relationship. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u139	In fact, I would suggest that the Secretary of State continues his reply. I think he was in the middle of a rounding. Can I or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u140	I have a few more questions to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u141	Okay. We had agreed on the number of interruptions, but those are...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u142	We had agreements about interruptions among ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u143	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, How much longer do you think you'll need, Secretary of State? Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u144	Without interruptions? I'm guessing 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u145	Fifteen minutes, no interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, no, no, no, no, More, more. That's usually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u147	Then you know that, too. I shall then give the floor to Mr Verhoeven. The interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm interested in waiting. Secretary of State says it's been reduced to eight weeks. That is shorter than it was, but I understood that he said at the beginning of October that it would go to eight weeks by the end of October. Now it is early February and again eight weeks is the result that is mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u149	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u150	I don't have photographic memory for my own texts. I know that I also said that we want to walk back towards the end of the year. The waiting period may have been eight weeks back then. I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u151	So the question is why now it seems that we are satisfied with those eight weeks, because it has become less. After all, it is possible that people with bad intentions will not be properly screened and the real screening will only come into the asylum procedure. So they have two months, eight weeks, relative space for their bad intentions. Why don't we cut it short? Why don't we work harder to get those eight weeks back to four weeks? Then why did we fire that 300 men from the IND?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u152	After eight weeks, the asylum procedure starts, not this. What we're talking about today is already over. You're not gonna wait eight weeks with that. Unless you haven't reported to Ter Apel in the first eight weeks of your stay in the Netherlands. That waiting period is then, after the first trial. Then you have a wait before the calls are recorded and the trial starts to determine if you have a right to asylum. It's not like if someone reports to Ter Apel, he'll have to wait there for eight weeks until we open his bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u153	No, no, no, Mr Verhoeven. I'm sorry. Last interruption. Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u154	I have one short question, Mr President. I just heard the Secretary of State say that all so-called hard and soft signals are being shared. How? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u155	I said the inspection says it's in order with the hard signals. She says there's still work to be done on the soft signals. That's why the Cabinet has indicated how we do it. We do that by including those soft signals at that direction table. For example, someone is in procedure, or is waiting for a house in a COA establishment. Suppose a person like that suddenly starts praying more often than before, or he changes his clothes all of a sudden. You'll notice. You can't say anything about it then, of course. That's gonna be different when someone says about that person at such a time: gosh, that's striking, because we've seen a few things with him that weren't hard enough in themselves, but now it's starting to add up. So you share that information, and then you can move on. For example, this is also about information found in telephones, when it is decided to empty such a phone completely and copy the information. For example, that information is shared with CT people, so that they too have access to that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u156	So that's manual? That's something people write down for themselves? Or is there an automated system that all those authorities mentioned in the last report have access to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u157	Part of the information goes to the NVIK, the node where we store that information. That's where all the intake forms go, and that's where they're stored in the system. It is not the case that all partners have access to the same system. The AIVD is also there, so by definition it's out of the question for anyone to enter the system. Furthermore, it is legally complicated to link systems. But via such a table you can share the information you have, you can watch and compare. And so you can determine whether that leads to a sum of soft signals that give rise to further investigation or further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u158	I propose that the Secretary of State should answer all the questions first, because the Minister of the Interior has yet to respond. All Members also have speaking time in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u159	Ms. Tellegen asked if there was any investment in the ID streets at Schiphol Airport. Yeah, they're investing in that. We invest not only in people, but also in technology through the use of additional e-gates and better passport readers, so that the KMar can do its job more efficiently and faster. Mr Recourt had a question about the procedure on post-travel. In the Netherlands, the IND does preliminary research on visiting family members. The family relationship should be established by means of documents. They are therefore verified for authenticity by the IND's Documents Office. Travel and IND documents are also checked in Interpol's database for lost or stolen documents. If a hit comes out of that, the IND will ask for it extensively at the hearing of the referent, so the person who arrived first in the Netherlands. In the hearing of the referent/asylum seeker, information is also requested from the revisiting family members. Specific attention will be paid to indications of 1F involvement. The IND also carries out a screening, including on social media. It looks for signals that may indicate, for example, jihadism, radicalisation or other risks to national security. Also in the post there is attention to identification and additional questions are asked in case of doubt. Following notification of acceptance, the post will be reported, where the documents will be checked again, biometric data will be collected and data will be checked in relevant systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u160	I actually wanted to suggest that the Secretary of State should answer all the questions first, but you haven't been there yet, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u161	And this is my point, Mr President, because I was very concerned that those of us who had been a little overlooked. This concern has not yet been fully addressed by the Secretary of State. If I understand him correctly, there will never be any talk with the followers themselves. There is only one person who "travels out," let's just say, the person who makes the application. His passport records are being checked. I understand that that person can even come out of control if something that doesn't quite make sense. And then it's done in the Netherlands. I don't think that's exactly the right procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u162	If the pre-examination at the IND gives rise to additional research, further hearing can take place at the post and/or a DNA examination. If there are signals about this, questions can also be asked to the followers. The procedure is also that there is a further discussion at the post with signals of radicalisation, for example. But I am talking about 'the procedure is', because it has not yet happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u163	But you'd have to have those signals. The only way to discover those signals right now is to see if anyone did a Facebook post. You must be a very stupid terrorist to announce something like that openly on Facebook.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u164	They're here. There are also people with multiple accounts. We've got a lot of skill in finding that out. But it is true: that hearing takes place from the hearing with the first person who is in the Netherlands, from the document check, from the broader scan, including on social media, or in doubt about the family bond. Only then will that hearing take place. There is not standard on the post a hearing of every traveler if there are no signals for that. But there is a procedure to do so by signals. Sometimes it takes more than 24 hours for someone to enter their identification street if someone has registered in, for example, Ter Apel. We've been asked how that's possible. The work process aims to log in within 24 hours. That deadline is not always met, because some asylum seekers report at night and then the I&R process does not start the same day. However, we will again highlight the importance of this short time, so that people are not in the waiting area too long before they start screening. Mr Recourt had another question about screening at the external borders. That is a responsibility of the Member States themselves. However, there is a possibility of supporting the European agencies, in particular Frontex. In Italy and Greece in particular, we have, of course, been very intensively involved as European countries and also through the Commission in improving screening in those hotspots. But it is a very low level compared to what we are used to. The Border Security Team of the Netherlands also contributed to this at Chios. We provide standard 50 people, especially in the rapid pool. They're always available. In addition, we almost permanently have dozens of police staff, KMar, IND, COA, DT&V on the Border Security Team, also for the benefit of EASO and Frontex. That doesn't change the fact that someone who's been screened in the hotspots can still get to us in two ways. A year and a half ago, in 2015, it happened often that people still walked through. That's happening a lot less now. In that situation, you already have the people in the system, but we're still doing our screening. Now we are mainly dealing with relocation from those countries. Then too, however, we have a process in which our people first speak to the people in Greece and Italy themselves and start gathering information. That information will then be sent to the people here to do a broader scan. When these people arrive at Schiphol Airport, they are brought to Rotterdam for identification and registration, as is the case with others. Then we'll do the whole process, including the checks on the phones and the luggage. Mrs Gesthuizen had a question about cooperation in Europe with asylum seekers travelling around. I'm gonna keep finding that a tough one. Dublin is suboptimal, to put it with an understatement. However, we do not have anything new yet. Until then, it remains a dilemma. If they are people from countries that can go back, for example someone from Albania, and they come in the Netherlands, I do not choose to "dublinclaim" them because they can. I've reported that before. Then I'll "pull" him, as it's called, and make sure he goes back to Albania. With people from countries I can't guarantee I can turn them off if I bring the file to me, I don't. Then I'll make a Dublin claim. That does not alter the fact that these people do not switch countries because they are transferred through the formal procedure. If, for example, people with a Dublin claim come into our asylum procedure from Germany or Sweden, it is because they have left themselves. Germany and Sweden did not send them to us. The detention of aliens is therefore not possible, because it is precisely this expulsion that is a problem. Mrs. Gesthuizen knows that, too. She's, I think, less of a fan of foreign detention than I am in these kinds of cases. So I do not have a satisfactory answer to the question of how I can improve the European approach in the short term. Mr Voordewind had a question on the information of the COA. That was a story from another report that said that there would be no information on radicalisation. We've been looking into it. The problem is that respondents told the WODC: I don't know what it is. I do know that we provide information and training at the centers. Employees of ours have been there as well. So I can only say that these information and training courses have been given and followed, but there is a mismatch with those who have indicated that they have never heard of them. I can't explain that very well. We've been doing training since 2014. The security guards we hire externally, who are not employed by the COA, are also trained in this context. Since the summer of last year, 240 additional staff have been trained, the safety contacts, to be able to identify these signals even better and at an even higher level. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u165	I have another question about the external borders. The Secretary of State says: we intend to do so in the future. That's a bit forward. There are at least 400 people left to be reallocated to the Netherlands. Why should we not do the screening at the external borders, as we are used to in the UN resolution programme, in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'm also in favour of doing that. That is why there are so many people from all kinds of Member States in Greece via Frontex and EASO, to improve that screening there. People entering Greece now have no right to reallocation. They simply need to be properly screened by the Greek authorities. We also see Mrs Gesthuizen asking the Minister that people with wrong intentions want to abuse the flow of refugees through smugglers in order to reach the EU. That doesn't mean they'll stay in that power to finally report to an office in Ter Apel. They can, of course, be caught and screened in hotspots once they have reached the EU in this way, without issuing biometrics to other countries. That must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u167	The screening is done on identity, but not on security. I've been to the screenings. It is being checked whether the people actually come from the countries from which they say they are coming. Then they can be reallocated over Europe. But what we are talking about tonight is whether we should also do security screening at the external borders before people are re-allocated on Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u168	Then let me make a snipe between people who enter other countries and who are or are not being reallocated. For people who are eligible for relocation to the Netherlands, we do the same screening as for those who enter Ter Apel. I happened to be there yesterday. A flight from Italy had just arrived at Schiphol Airport. These people were all brought to Rotterdam and spent a lot of time there until they were all through the identification and registration. Only then will they be taken to Budel. That's our process of reallocating. I also agree with Mr Voordewind that every country must have its own affairs in order. I think it is right that the inspection should keep us focused on how we, as the Netherlands, can do better. I asked for that, too. I have the impression that many other European countries still have more to do in order to have proper screening, including on security, at the external border. That's their responsibility. I agree with Mr Voordewind that we need to do that there, but in the meantime, for people who are in the Netherlands reallocating, we are doing it our way here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief addition at this late hour, also because I cannot say so much about the AIVD's working methods in public, as you all understand. The central task of the AIVD is to gather intelligence for national security purposes. Inside, our annual reports also show that the jihadist threat is a very high priority. We also have the capacity and the budget to do what we have to do. That was requested in the first term. I've only brought you the budget. Then you can see that it has risen and risen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u170	We can all see that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u171	I don't know who to show it to. I'll show you, Madam President. But it's also in all the pieces! That does not limit the AIVD in what it has to do in this area. There is, however, a limitation, Mr Blok, which is entirely justified by the legal framework. There's been a lot of talk about cell phones today, but the law on the basis of which they work was before people were all carrying cell phones. There has been a lot of talk about extracting information from the information carriers that people carry, but the biggest threat is from people who have high security awareness and who make sure they don't carry it. So you're gonna have to be smarter to get that information on the table. I will discuss this with the Chamber next week. I believe it was said: take your sleeping bag with you. I will be delighted to do so if it is necessary to obtain broad support in this Chamber for the necessary legal powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u172	Very briefly, Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yes, a very short question. We have talked about the provision of information. It goes both ways when it comes to identification on the I.D. street. If there's a suspicion or something weird is noticed, the services are asked: do you know what's going on with that and that? But what about the other way around? To what extent is the service proactive when it comes to things he perceives and shares with the people in that street, in the sense that he says: pay attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u174	I just came up with that. I would just like to say this in response to the questions put by Mr Recourt and Mr Voordewind about the role of the AIVD in this process. As I said, this is the core task of the AIVD. The AIVD is trying to get a picture of jihadist threats, whether or not people are part of a migration or asylum chain. That doesn't really matter that much from the point of view of the AIVD. The Minister and the Secretary of State spoke extensively about the organisation of the immigration chain. A national management consultation has been set up in which, on the basis of soft and hard signals, a multidisciplinary image is created of persons who may be radicalised or radicalised. The AIVD participates in this. On the one hand, he can help point out trends and signals at phenomenon level, also on the basis of his knowledge and experience. On the other hand, he can take the signals back and on that basis, but also on the basis of personal data collected or additional data obtained from sister services in other countries, consider whether further research is needed. If there is information that can be shared, this will be done by means of a notice with the people in the asylum chain, the police, child protection or any other body that can act on it. That's actually my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u175	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for the answers they have given, but unfortunately the problems are far from being resolved. That is because the cabinet has broken all the immigration and asylum records that exist. That's the biggest problem. This brings the problems to the Netherlands, including safety problems. Anyone who wants to can come to the Netherlands to apply for asylum, receive asylum reception and receive asylum procedures. That is no longer a sustainable situation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the borders for asylum seekers and thus to achieve a full asylum stop,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u177	In addition, I note that asylum seekers, even if rejected, often cannot be removed. That was also apparent during the debate. Another problem is that the cabinet has no idea who is here either. Undocumented asylum seekers can hardly be screened. That, however you turn it or turn it around, creates major security problems. People come in with false papers, use false identity data. It's hard to screen. That could just include terrorists. The Minister himself has indicated that it is playing and that people have been removed from the asylum stream, including in the Netherlands, who may have had terrorist motives. No risk should be taken, so I shall table a final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close down asylum seekers' centres in the light of security and the threat of terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u178	Brief question, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u179	Does that also apply to babies and children?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u180	It is a generic measure, which is necessary in the light of safety. I've talked to Mrs Keijzer about this before. It is not the case that asylum seekers' families or asylum seekers have no choice. They're not refugees. People were safe long before they were here in the Netherlands. We have travelled through several safe countries. If you go to the Netherlands, you end up in a closed asylum-seekers' centre, but you don't have to come to the Netherlands. One can also stay in all those safe countries where one has already been. There is therefore no obligation to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u181	That discussion has already taken place, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u182	Not this one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u183	It's really just about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u184	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. That's my question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u185	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u186	What Mr Fritsma is saying is correct, but nevertheless the answer to my question is that PVV is going to lock up babies, toddlers and toddlers. Not at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u187	Closed asylum-seekers' centres are necessary in view of the threat of terrorism and security. You see what happens. You see what happens to North African asylum seekers who use asylum seekers' centres as a base for raids. It is a voluntary choice to go to the Netherlands. One can also stay in the safe countries where one was before one arrived in the Netherlands. So it's choosing or sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the threat picture in the Netherlands and in Europe, no concessions can be made to complete and careful registration of asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas the Security and Justice Inspectorate indicated that at the beginning of the asylum process there is a risk of missing possible signals because luggage and data carriers are not directly secured;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that baggage and data carriers are kept safe at all times after entry at identification locations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that only one in every three data carriers of asylum seekers are read out;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that data carriers from incoming asylum seekers are always read out at all identification locations;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2280]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u189	The Minister of Justice indicated that there was sufficient staff, while a report from the Public Prosecutor's Office and Justice showed otherwise. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Safety and Justice Inspectorate indicated that the majority of the personnel were inexperienced at the identification site in Didam;]] [[whereas the inspection indicated that some steps in the identification process are carried out but not always to the full extent;]] [[having regard to the fact that police and justice have indicated in a note that the Foreigners, Identification and Trafficking Divisions have more work than they can handle;]] [[calls on the Government, by 1 March next, to ensure that all identification sites are adequately qualified and experienced staffed and have sufficient time to carry out all the steps carefully and fully,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. In the interests of national security, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the screening of asylum seekers, in particular in the identification streets, is very poor;]] [[whereas the chances of terrorists successfully hiding in the asylum influx are very real;]] [[calls on the Government to hold asylum seekers immediately after entry until the AIVD and the police have carried out a careful screening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers. Asylum seekers don't have it on their foreheads if they're terrorists. This makes the screening process difficult, not only because you have to identify who someone is, but also because often, based on very vague signals, it is necessary to find out whether there are security risks to someone. It is therefore important that we keep a very close eye on the screening system and that we keep a very close eye on whether it is in order. I welcome the Minister's commitment that he will indicate in the next terrorist threat picture how the intention to exchange better information is working out in practice and also how the learning capacity of the personnel to do so in the ID street is working. I would ask the Minister once again to address specifically the question of the expertise in the identification street. Is it sufficient? I also pointed out the need for a clear understanding of the needs of the KMar at Schiphol Airport. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the number of passengers at Schiphol Airport and other airports in the Netherlands is expected to continue to grow in the coming years;]] [[Whereas it is the legal task of the Royal Marechaussee to monitor the borders of our country and to carry out border controls;]] [[Whereas, for the year 2017, an additional 135 fte has been released on an occasional basis in view of the shortage of the Royal Marechaussee;]] [[noting that this measure provides a temporary and partial solution;]] [[Considering that, certainly at this time of terrorist threat, it is self-evident to allow the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee to grow with the growth of airports to maintain the right balance between security and mobility;]] [[calls on the Government to make the long-term needs of the Royal Marechaussee transparent and to inform the Chamber thereof in the near future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u192	Is this just about the capacity at the Royal Marechaussee and not in all the other places?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u193	This is specifically about the Royal Marechaussee. It has the legal task of carrying out passport checks. I would very much appreciate it if, not only for this year, but also for the longer term in view of the growth of our airports, especially Schiphol Airport, we could see how many more people are needed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr. Chairman. If you want to fight terrorism well, you can do a lot of different things. I agree with the cabinet on this. However, you must ensure, as the new Secretary of State for Security and Justice has just said, that the basis is in order. The VVD tends to reduce criticism and then distract the Chamber from criticism by coming up with all sorts of new, grand proposals and then giving the opposition the feeling that it does not cooperate. I would say: make sure, as the Minister has also tried to make clear, that the telephones, the luggage and the language will be in order and that we will better organise the screening of the ID street. I have just tried in the debate with the Secretary of State to make it clear that there are eight weeks between the ID street and the start of the asylum procedure. That's a long time. That is why I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the waiting period between the first identification of asylum seekers and the start of the asylum procedure is still on average eight weeks;]] [[Whereas the report of the Safety and Justice Inspectorate shows that not all signals of terrorist intentions can be picked up and that this will allow people with bad intentions to go on for eight weeks;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that asylum seekers who are actually fleeing terror remain in uncertainty about their status for eight weeks and cannot work on their integration into the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, after the first identification of asylum seekers, to start the asylum procedure as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u195	And finally, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u196	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u197	...that the former Minister of Security and Justice said that the I.D. Street is only a first step. I agree. He suggested that the next steps are important. So eight weeks isn't wise, and so I filed this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mrs. Gesthuizen, if there's anything else you want to ask me, you have to be really quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u199	I would have liked to have heard from Mr Verhoeven about the accusation he made to me in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u200	No accusations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u201	That is a very good and brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u202	Mr. Chairman. I am proud that we in the Netherlands are granting asylum to those who suffer most from IS. That being said, no xenophobic policy here. But we must be careful not to take advantage of this much-needed hospitality. The cabinet has come up with a number of tightenings, followed by reports. That's fine. It's still a weak side, but I can also see the limitations. One point that I am absolutely not convinced is that it is completely in order is the procedure for travellers. In any case, while we still have a reasonable procedure for people who ask for asylum to examine hard and soft information, this is not the case for nationals. They can, without anyone speaking to them, come here in the Netherlands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the level of screening of follow-up travellers should be the same as that of those applying for asylum in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this does not seem to be the case at present;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure an adequate level of screening of passengers on board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u203	Mr. Chairman. I was wrong. I thought one more speaker would speak for me. Thank you very much to the directors for their reply and, of course, especially to the new Minister for Security and Justice. Nevertheless, I, and let me start with the same minister, am not quite clear. How is that going to keep a sharp eye on people with soft information? I'm just calling it a gut feeling that they might be dealing with very wrong things, look exactly? And who's gonna do this? I understand that the COA will be given a prominent role. That seems fine in itself, but I also express the concern that the COA will get a very heavy job on it, especially at the moments when it is all about us. How can the COA employees, in addition to all the other things they have to take care of and do, be the ones who are going to keep an eye on people? I'm worried about that. I have heard the Minister say: the police, the AIVD and even the Public Prosecutor's Office have sufficient capacity. I also say that I dare to doubt that, but I have heard the Minister say it very clearly. We shall therefore be following him closely in the future on this point. Finally. I have heard the Secretary of State for Security and Justice say that he has the impression that other countries need to do much more to get their screening in order. That's right, and that's very worrying. It does put this debate in a very uncomfortable context. We can jump high and low here and try to pull everything out of the closet, but at the same time we are in an unsafe Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u204	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop. No, I see he's quitting his second term. There's one more motion coming up, but I think the Minister can answer. The other motions are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr. Chairman. In the division of work I shall deal with the motions on the items Nos. 2282 and 2284. The Secretary of State deals with the other motions and the Minister of the Interior will listen breathlessly. In the motion in part No. 2282 by Mrs Keijzer, the government is invited to ensure by 1 March that sufficient qualified and experienced staff are present at all identification sites and that this is given sufficient time to go through all the steps of identification carefully and fully. The motion gives the impression that there are serious capacity problems. I've already indicated that it isn't. The inspection does not indicate that either. In addition, we have indicated in the letter that, when there is cause for concern, extra time will also be created. If necessary, this is done even by obliging people to stay within the shelter. On balance, therefore, I must discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion in part No. 2284 by Mrs Tellegen and Mr Recourt. It invites the government to make the multiannual needs of the Royal Marechaussee clear and to inform the Chamber of Representatives in the near future. I'd like to be willing to do that. If the motion is to be put to the vote, I shall leave the verdict to the Chamber. The Secretary of State will deal with the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u206	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Fritsma's first motion, the motion in part No. 2278 on the complete asylum stop and the closure of borders. We've talked about that before. We do choose to better monitor the borders and limit the influx into the Netherlands, but we prefer to do so before people have reached the Netherlands by strengthening the European external borders and reducing the influx further, as we have already done. That's why I advise against this motion. The second motion tabled by Mr Fritsma, the motion tabled by Mr Fritsma, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I assume he doesn't mean the motion literally either, because if you shut down asylum seekers' centres, people won't get any air. We have other legal qualifications for such an act. Earlier in the debate, I indicated why I think the detention of asylum seekers is a bad idea. Into the motion in part No. 2280 by Mrs Keijzer on the security of luggage and data carriers. We'll do that on the I.D. Street. The telephone and data carriers are "quick checked" and read out if appropriate. This is now happening in 30% of cases. I think this motion is superfluous, because what is described here is what we are doing now. The motion in part No. I interpret Mrs Keijzer's 2281 in such a way that she wants 100% of the telephones to be read. I do not find that rewarding, because then we have a huge amount of data for which there is no reason, even from people from whom we do not even have any indication at all that there would be something wrong with it. A lot of people, almost all of them, have a phone, also multiple phones. If there's a reason, I'll do it, but otherwise I won't. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Bontes' motion for a resolution (Doc. 2283 is about the detention of asylum seekers; we have already talked about this. We're running the screening now. At that point, the people are on location, we've secured their luggage and their phones will be taken. So people are already there. As I indicated, there's a possibility to extend that, but I want to dissuade people in detention. In the motion in part No. Mr Verhoeven asked the government to start the asylum procedure as soon as possible. I do not think it is necessary to hire additional staff with steam and boiling water to shorten that period of eight weeks further. Within the IND, we've prioritized the capacity mainly on second-hand travellers, because that's the largest group that comes in weekly, and not on spontaneous influx. Also in the spontaneous influx, we have our two-track policy where, depending on where someone comes from, we will see which track he is being treated and can also be removed quickly. As I said, the screening as we are discussing it here today is happening immediately. That's why I advise against this motion. I come to the motion in part No. 2286 by Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen. I have described to Mr Recourt what we are doing now; that is something we can work with. If the Chamber still wants this to be reviewed and it is being considered whether it should be tightened up, I will have to discuss this with my foreign colleague. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. If the motion is passed, I will inform the Chamber of what came out of the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u208	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-7.u209	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the rulers.
