ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on responsibility for the year 2016. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the thorough contributions and many questions. As always in the debate on accountability, the issues are wide-ranging. There are a lot of different folders here. I won't tell you how I structured it. In short, it's not structured. I would like to begin by thanking the General Court for its work and for the hard work it has done to support you in your monitoring task and thus to feed this Accountability debate and, of course, to keep the ministries sharp. I am immediately taking up the task, the cuts in the General Court for which several Members have asked for attention. It is, of course, a painful subject after the Court of Auditors has done so much work. I have spoken about it several times with the Court of Auditors. I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, it would be a good idea to analyse the tasks and resources of the Court of Auditors. The same should also be done for the National Ombudsman. We are now discussing the design of an independent analysis of tasks and resources. I can imagine that if we have in concept ideas on how to decorate that, we will inform the Chamber about it. I say this all the more because the Court of Auditors, because of its controlling role vis-à-vis the government, does not want the government now to review the Court of Auditors. That is why it is conceivable that the House of Representatives should formally commission such a task and resources analysis. For this we will come back to you with a proposal, after which you will give us the order. I propose that we continue to design this process with the Court of Auditors and then come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u3	I am always in favour of doing good research, and I also understand the search to do so in the right constitutional relations at High Colleges of State. Can the Minister give us any further information on the period when he expects the Chamber to hear anything about the outcome of this apparently ongoing consultation between the Minister, the Court of Auditors and the appropriate supplement, the National Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u4	I can't say that at the moment. I can try to put a date on it in second term. That consultation is already taking place. It's now the end of May. Is it June 1st already? No, not yet. Let's bet on summer, at least for Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u5	The procedure seems fine to me, but I would like to say something about the content. I understand from the Minister that the tasks are set out and that then an adequate budget is added, so that the content is guiding and not the other way around: we have this budget, so let's see what else you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's right. On the other hand, the High Colleges are not now excluded or exempt for eternity from austerity, targets and so on. That discussion keeps coming back and I didn't want to go along with it. I do not think this is legitimate and irresponsible in relation to society either. Sometimes cuts and targets are needed. I do not think that we should protect the High Colleges from that in general. That sound can be heard from time to time. The responsibilities and tasks of the Court of Auditors are constantly evolving. I myself passed legislation through the Chambers to give additional powers to the Court of Auditors. The new Compatibility Act has been added. Let us take a step back and see if the funding of the Court of Auditors is sufficient to carry out its tasks. It does go by the way of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u7	As a follow-up, I say I'm waiting for this. I would appreciate it if we would receive a letter about this before the summer recess. That would be my preference, I say from this place. Of course, the Chamber also asks for regular investigations. Let me give you an example. In my opinion, the Court of Auditors has done a great deal of important work in the discussion on the Joint Strike Fighter. I take it that the Court of Auditors will also be able to continue to carry out work before, and to carry out investigations into, for example, large purchases of equipment for defence. I assume that all of this is part of the 'context-based' approach. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u8	Hm, yeah. Sure. There are also likely to be discussions about what is simply part of the legal tasks and so on. What should the Court of Auditors simply do and be able to do on the basis of funding? And what more would the Court of Auditors want to do to help the Court with even more thematic investigations or with deepening? Even then, of course, at some point, you run into the limits of the budget. We will therefore have to have this discussion with each other, because the High Colleges of State, of course, also have to work within a budget. But Mr Van Weyenberg says that the Court of Auditors must also have some room, in addition to the strictly legal tasks, for what should be done at least, to examine whether or not to do further deepening or broadening at the request of the Court of Auditors. That is Mr Van Weyenberg's point. That space has to be there, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'll wait and see. I also understand that the Minister does not want to go over the fundamental bridge from excluding it in advance. At least that is not what I argued or intended. It's good to have that clear. I have one more question to ask, to get a little more colour. Does the Minister share the concern expressed by colleagues from DENK, the SGP and also by myself? I welcome the conversation, but I would like to get some insight into the basic attitude with which the Minister is dealing with this discussion. I get that he says he doesn't want to sign a blank cheque, not even for the future. But does the Minister recognize the image that it does pinch? That is what I am tasting in the reply and the opening he is offering today, for which I thank him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u10	My basic attitude is that I don't rule it out. But I'm gonna make it a little wider right now. I say that also because we have had years of austerity, tightness, zero lines and so on throughout the state service, and quite frankly throughout the public sector. So it's in all kinds of places: let's not fool each other. We're about to talk about the IRS. Of course it pinches there, too. All these targets have also been about the Tax Administration. And in all honesty, let's give each other the mirror as well. Most of the financial transfers of your electoral programmes have again included targets on the government. They're in most of your election programs. So if you are now critically telling me that 9,000 people still have to leave and ask how to do so, then you must ask yourself the following question: have we again included in the pass-through of our electoral programme heavy targets in the government? I know why that happens. In addition, we come to the model reality of Pieter Ommzigt. Excuse me, Mr. Omtzigt's model reality. The CPB simply allows parties to book an x-percentage of government cuts. You just get x billion for that, and then you can spend that money on things you can meet the voters with. But, boys... no, sorry: but, ladies and gentlemen, we are indivisible. You cannot tell the cabinet that with the cuts in the government, it will no longer be possible to do so and that all of them will have to be reversed, and at the same time, in your election programme, simply announce a new round of austerity on the government. So I'm just gonna say that in full focus, because this is happening. Why don't you pull up the credit cards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think this has been discussed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr President, I have some loose things to say, but they will be dealt with later. This brings me straight to the discussion about the use of CPB models, which Mr Omtzigt has sparked. The CPB model is a good model. It has recently been assessed externally through a visitation. The assessment of the quality of the CPB and of the models used by the CPB was very positive. But each model naturally leads to teaching to the test, and that in the variant of the election programs. Parties of course know what comes best from a model. The same goes for a cabinet. I can imagine that a new coalition agreement will soon be recalculated by the CPB. You could say that's a model reality. Yeah, that's true. However, it may also be the best possible representation of macroeconomic and financial impacts. It would also be the best way to pass the measures on to the environment. In any case, this cabinet does not intend to question the model or to launch a broad public debate on the CPB model. If there is a broad feeling in the Chamber that things should be different, then perhaps it is the way to deal with the model that should be different. This is primarily a matter for politics. In any case, we will not take any initiative to question the model itself. This has been scientifically validated and is regularly reviewed. I'm trying to speed up, Mr. Chairman, because I have a huge pile of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u13	The CPB model has been better validated. I would also like to have that discussion in the Chamber. But I also criticized another model, namely the way in which the government had dealt with the models of administrative burden relief. We've had a letter in which so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u15	Ah, you'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u16	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u17	Last year actually ended with a surplus. If you listen to some Members, that is a problem and the Minister of Finance, with his accounting mentality, should be ashamed of it. I don't intend to. We are going to take advantage of the surplus. It has in fact already been used to further reduce debt. This will enable us to use the budget as a buffer in the event of a subsequent economic downturn. The budget is a buffer. Whether we want it or not, as soon as an economic crisis occurs, the budget is a buffer that takes care of some of the social problems. Just think of rising expenditure on benefits that are then needed. That's why we're bringing the blame back further. So proposals from the PVV and the SP to give the money back to the citizens will not follow the cabinet. In the coming years, however, the surplus will increase further. In the media the message appeared that the surplus had already turned into a deficit. I can assure you that is not the case. The surplus will increase further. You'll read that in the spring note tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr Van Dijck, before I give you the floor, let me see if we can structure this debate a little bit. Can the Minister please tell us how he's about to build up his answers? Otherwise, after each sentence, a Member of Parliament raises questions and questions have also been asked earlier that need to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr President, my construction is that I first have a few broad themes. I will discuss policy information, policy assessments, broad understanding of prosperity and information security in a moment. Gradually, it gets more specific. Information security is therefore a broad theme, but then it becomes more specific: the Tax Administration, appropriate education etc. etc. I really have a lot of folders, but I'm going from wide to narrow. That's the only thing I can promise you in terms of structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u20	Obviously. Mr Van Dijck, is your question not in the division from broad to narrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u21	No. This is what I'm wondering. There are always many sacrifices to be made of the citizens of this country. It is said that the acid comes first, that we have a crisis, that we have to raise taxes, bring VAT to 21%, and you name it. Now things are getting better and there's a surplus. One would think: then the money will be returned, then there will be room for tax cuts. But that doesn't appear in the PvdA's dictionary, does it? To lower taxes once and use the surplus for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u22	And you hadn't asked this question in your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yeah, but I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u24	The Minister has just begun!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u25	I asked that question, of course, in the first sentence of my speech. But this minister is now saying: we need a buffer in case the budget fails and the weather is bad. But the question is: when does it come sweet after the acid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr Van Dijck seems to have forgotten that we have reduced the tax by 5 billion from 2016. I heard Mr Omtzigt say it; he knew I was going to answer this. There was a lot of criticism at the time: it was all far too early. Some didn't think it was necessary because the economy was already overheated. Others said: it is a disgrace, because the budget is not yet in order; it is far too early! We did. The economic recovery has continued and the budget has quickly recovered to the surplus we now have. Tax relief is thus also included in the total of the measures. In addition to investments, reversals and cuts, there is also relief. For the coming years, it is up to a new cabinet to decide how that surplus is to be dealt with, because the surplus is running out. You can make it all go to the state debt, you can intensify it, and you can give it back to citizens, but that's not up to us anymore. But for 2016 we have greatly reduced the burden and reduced the debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u27	My question is what this Minister of Finance thinks, because he still is, despite being decommissioned. Does he think that the government should collect from the citizens what it spends? Or does he think that the government should collect more taxes from citizens than it spends? Because the surplus goes up to 11 billion in 2021. Is he going to use all that as a buffer or is he saying: well, it's time to boost purchasing power a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u28	If today the Chamber adopts a motion in which it says that this cabinet is no longer a missionary but full force may continue to work, then I will answer that question with love. Moreover, we have budgetary rules which still say that income and expenditure are separate. It is not the case that, if there are more revenues, we have to spend them immediately or otherwise immediately reduce taxes. But Mr Van Dijck knows the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u30	I have answered Mrs Leijten's question. She wants to keep money for care for care. This means that a windfall or space that would exist in the care framework is again spent on care. This is not a policy point of departure either. That does not mean that you cannot decide to intensify in primary education or care, but that is more appropriate in the debate on the Spring Note. We will not have that debate today. This is about 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u31	Were you finished with Mrs Leijten's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u33	I do not find this answer surprising; I had foreseen this. But could the Minister of Finance suggest to us the following? Members of parliament, in this case from the opposition, are always told in the VWS committee: it cannot, there is no money, you have no cover. And then the result of the year comes and then there's 1.8 billion left. If the government says 'this is the budgetary framework of care; here we have to do it; we have it so estimated' and if there is suddenly room for manoeuvre, even during the year that is perhaps not so visible to those Members of Parliament How can we ensure that Members of Parliament are given the opportunity to move it? This is one of the problems we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u34	These debates take place during the year, first and foremost in the spring note. That's the first intermediate moment you've seen how it goes. By the way, what is it in the area of the care budget of the European Union? In the meantime, almost 80 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u35	73.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u36	That depends on what definition you use, but well, let's not argue about that. Of course, on a very large budget, it is not surprising that there are sometimes windfalls, sometimes also setbacks. Maids aren't a problem for me. They can also be a sign that the Minister has taken very good measures, for example by reducing the prices of medicines in order to achieve savings. The SP should also welcome this. Finally, a budget authorizes expenditure without a duty to spend all that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u37	These bureaucratic accounting rules, I think, are precisely the problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u38	You think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u39	In an interview, you said, "we were saving the country." Well, people haven't experienced that. I'm just asking the Minister a simple question. Of course I know the system: we get a budget, we get a Spring note with adjustments and a Autumn note with adjustments. But then suddenly, poop boom, there's still 1.8 billion left. Last year there were enough moments when the Chamber wanted to do something wide for people with confused behavior. We wanted to do something on all sides, but there was no money for that. How can we resolve the fact that you are standing here saying that there is 1.8 billion left and that there are needs in society, and that the opposition also gets an insight into where there is money to be shifted in a financial year? Because that is not what the opposition gets, I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u40	There is that insight, namely in the spring note and in the autumn note. If there are any changes in the Navy's note, we'll report them as well. I am pleased that Mrs Leijten has joined the permanent committee on finance, because that would allow her to follow even better where space is created, for example in the area of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u41	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've been following it very closely at VWS over the past few years. We were all standing here last December: we needed money for the nursing homes, but we couldn't, because there was no money. With the closing of the books, there is money: 1.8 billion. We're in our shirt. Not only the government, which is happy with a surplus while people need care, also the opposition, who wants to do something and who is always thrown away that it has no cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u43	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u44	No, we don't have access to the question of coverage. That's why I just asked: can't we find a solution? So not at those two moments alone, but perhaps in between. But apparently the Minister is not even prepared to do so. Then I come to the conclusion that we are dealing here with someone who wants the books in order and does not look at the consequences for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mrs Leijten is always trying to blame me for wanting to have the books in order, but I take that as a compliment. I therefore thank her again for this compliment. It is an important task for the Minister of Finance to put the budget in order. Furthermore, she is failing herself. The discussion is not that the opposition has no cover, but the question is whether a majority will be found for the coverage proposed. That's her job. If Mrs Leijten has proposals to cover them, she must see if she can create a majority for them. That would be a democratic decision to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mrs Leijten, it will now be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u47	It's beautiful. Here's the treasurer, who has all the insight into the finances. He also understands that there is 1.8 billion left to care. That insight is not there for a Member of Parliament. Then ending up here with a you-bake that we should be doing that ourselves isn't neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u48	It's not a you-bake. You said you'd be asked for cover all the time. That cover always provides the opposition with it. But then there is the question of whether there is a majority for that. You know better than anyone that there is a great delay in the accountability of healthcare expenditure. This year we give the information we have, but since the bulk of the funds is spent in all kinds of healthcare institutions in the country, it sometimes takes years for the final statement to arrive and we really know whether money has been left or whether more has been spent than was actually budgeted in that year. That is a very different problem, which I cannot solve. The best thing we can do is to inform the Chamber as well as possible at the moments before that. We do not do that every week, we do that at fixed times in the year. Sometimes there appears to be room for manoeuvre, because expenditure does not take place. Then the room can adjust to that. I will now talk about policy information and policy assessments. The Study Group on Budget Space found that public authorities' knowledge of effectiveness and efficiency is still insufficient. They advise to start an operation insight into quality. They have mentioned a number of directions that appeal to me very much: greater role for independents, more flexibility and customization and use each other's expertise and knowledge. We have already taken a number of measures in anticipation of what a new cabinet wants to do with the opinion of the study group. These no-regret measures have been developed in the multi-annual planning exercise, where the use of different evaluation tools, such as policy review in ibos and so on, is considered in conjunction with time. It is also about improvement points in policy reviews. Policy reviews often show that at the beginning there was insufficient clarity about what the target was, what the indicators we were going to follow and how we are going to monitor it. Then it turns out x years after that it is difficult to really assess it for effectiveness and effectiveness. This must therefore be done better from the outset. You can also simply draw those conclusions from the policy reviews. I mentioned the better exchange of knowledge between ministries. We are going to develop a new training programme to actively train staff who are going to conduct or supervise the policy reviews in the field of evaluation research. In this way, we will start with the recommendations, in anticipation of the way in which a new cabinet should continue to deal with them. Several political groups have asked whether the 'yes, unless' principle of Mr Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf Van Weyenberg and Mrs De Vries have always called for more systematic evaluations to be carried out. I am in favour of that, and I agree with them. In the new Compatability Act, we have included a provision which states that in principle, with each policy proposal, Mr Dijkgraaf suggests another decision tree to be able to say exceptionally: here is perhaps less meaningful consideration of the objectives, effectiveness and efficiency that are being pursued. We are currently working on an elaboration of that article, in the form of a hand-out. This means that the ministries will have to take this up in the future and that this will therefore become the standard practice. We are doing this in conversation with the General Court, the Planning Offices and other experts. We would like to present this hand-out to the Chamber in the autumn, so that it will be ready when the new Comptability Act enters into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u49	Please do not take an inviting look at Mr Dijkgraaf, Minister. I want to know if you're done with this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u50	It doesn't make much sense to ask that every time, because I really have piles of paper lying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u51	I don't look back nicely either, but I think this was the end of the subject of evaluations. I was just waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u52	It was also a bit the intention of my question to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u53	The whole subject of today's debate concerns evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'd like to suggest you finish that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u55	Many questions have been asked about specific evaluations, for example of the air quality programme and of sector plans. To begin with, I can say that it is not the case that Minister Asscher does not want to evaluate the Healthcare Sector Plan. By letter of September last year, the Minister indicated that he would evaluate all sector plans in stages. This will happen this autumn and in the course of next year, until 2019. This includes the Sector Plan for Healthcare. That will also be evaluated. The air quality programme is only evaluated after ten years, Mrs De Vries noted. She said she should have done that sooner. The frequency of policy reviews is set at four to a maximum of seven years. This can only be waived for serious reasons. The Air Quality Programme has deviated from this, as the duration of the Programme has been extended to 2018. The policy review was also postponed until 2018/2019, so that the whole programme can be evaluated. That is why this evaluation has been postponed. Moreover, an annual monitoring report is sent to the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt called for a smarter definition of the objectives. This is covered by the elaboration of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act that I have just spoken about. In this we are going to include the way in which your goals should be formulated in advance. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the role of the IRF. Should the inspection also monitor the quality of evaluations, policy reviews and so on? The answer to this is: yes, finance is systemically responsible for the evaluations. So even though they take place in the departments, we always have a role to ensure that it is qualitatively up to the mark. That is why we are so closely involved in further improving policy reviews, both in terms of process and how do they take shape? As regards quality in terms of output. In recent years, together with the Chamber, we have really taken steps in this direction. The Chambers are much more actively involved, for example in advance, in the formulation of the research questions "What research question would we like to put at the centre of a policy review? It is also true that in the past these investigations have been carried out on a large scale, and in the more active way they have been sent to the Chamber. That's going much better. Now we're going to take the next step. As far as I am concerned, that was all about the evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u56	I saw in the documents that many initiatives are being taken to conduct policy assessments, to share knowledge and to do more training. All that seems fine to me, but what does that mean for the budgets? There's some irritation in the fractions. When I hear the debate and listen to my colleagues who are dealing with other departments, the link between the budget and the accounts is not yet in order, especially when it comes to objectives. Does the Minister think that budgets should be drawn up in terms of policy objectives in such a way as to clarify their objectives so that a comparison can be made with the accountability?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes, that is absolutely our goal, but it really starts with the pre-formulation of what you want to achieve. That's where we're gonna have to make a move. How are you gonna measure that? How are you gonna monitor that over the next few years, so you can make a statement about it at some point? If you miss that first step, and almost always that step is skipped or formulated in general terms, not measurable, then it is very difficult to say after an x-number of years in a policy review or an evaluation whether we have succeeded in achieving our goal, because "what was the goal really?" I say it a little sharp, but this is a recurring problem in the policy review. It is very difficult to say whether the policy was effective or effective and to what extent. Every time it comes down to "we haven't exactly defined it in advance, we haven't defined what we want to achieve and how we're going to measure it." The outcome of the process must be that you will be able to see in the budget "the coming year there will be so much money for this purpose, what was our objective of policy, thus formulated, and what is the latest state of affairs?" In the annual report you will read whether those objectives have been achieved and, if so, to what extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u58	Exactly. Of course, it doesn't work. The ideal situation would be to get the budget of a department with clear policy objectives in it. This should then include all the policy initiatives that have to do with this. After all, there are often several policy proposals to achieve a particular objective. You want to be able to see afterwards what is going on and whether those objectives have been achieved. In what time can budgets be improved in this respect? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u59	The honest answer is that even if you were to do so consistently from now on, that is to say, if from now on you consistently formulate what you would like to achieve in any policy area by means of a policy instrument, you will be years ahead before this ideal world is reached. We have all kinds of goals and instruments across the whole range of national policies, but they are not precise. They are often not measurable and are not linked to indicators and methods etc. If the line is to be standard in future as the Chamber advocates, and if we are to force the Chamber and the Cabinet to be precise in new policy initiatives about what we want to achieve with it and how we are going to measure it, even if we are really going to do it consistently from now on, we will be years before we have implemented it for the whole of the national policy. It will then take years before we can really say exactly: this is effective policy and that instrument is less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u60	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u61	Should the Minister of Finance, and perhaps a new Minister of Finance in the future, have a coordinating role? Should he be pushing the other ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u62	Sure. The new minister will really have to perform on that point! No, in all seriousness: the Finance Minister really has a coordinating role in this. That's also laid down in the law. He's really responsible for the system of policy reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u63	The Minister describes very clearly how the air quality programme has worked out, but my question is whether you consider it desirable that there should be no evaluation in ten years' time. You can spend ten years spending money on the wrong things and not achieving the goals you want. I therefore believe that you should have a regular mid-term evaluation of this type of programme. Does the Minister think that this is desirable and would he like to take steps in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u64	The answer is yes. If we follow the Dijkgraaf method, which is actually already enshrined in the new Compatibility Act, in 3.1, it will be the same in future. We're gonna build in standard evaluation moments. In that case, it can no longer be possible for a programme not to be evaluated for 10 years. Moreover, it is not the case that nothing has been laid down or that there is no report on this programme. Much has been achieved, but a broad evaluation of this programme has been delayed for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr President, your approach has been successful, because the Minister has already answered a lot of questions I wanted to ask. I want to come back to one thing. The minister says he'll come up with an approach in the autumn. I like the words and a fine ambition of the Minister. That's all fine, but how long does it take for the train to actually drive? How does the Minister estimate that? I can imagine that this still requires a lot from ministries. It requires a different way of thinking and expertise. People need training. How long before you really see this back in budgets? I imagine this is going to take years, but when can we say: now the train has really left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u66	I imagine that sometime in the autumn we will have a new cabinet with a government agreement that hopefully includes new ambitions and intentions. They may not yet be very concrete, but they will then come to the Chamber in the following year, successfully in policy proposals and in legislative proposals. At the beginning of a new cabinet period there will always be a solid bulk of policy initiatives. Of course, it would be great if you could see in that stream in advance what the goal is that you want to achieve with it and so on. As is well known, the legislative programme, the policy programme of a new cabinet, is always very full in the first two years. If you miss that opportunity right now, you're actually gonna miss four or five years. As mentioned above, the new Compatibility Act formally enters into force on 1 January. Then there's got to be that hand-me-down. This means that this fixed system must be built into all the new plans which will then be developed in the departments from 1 January. I can hear myself saying it. I can also see from the faces of Members of Parliament that they hope so too. In my view, it is a joint responsibility of the new cabinet and the Chamber to really keep to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u67	That was exactly why I brought up the Ministry of Finance and the IRF, because I think there should be a quarter of an hour maker who's after this a lot, because this is quite a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u68	Yeah, but not as an ad hoc figure, but just as an institution. It's called the IRF. I now turn to the broad concept of prosperity and the new Sustainable Netherlands Monitor. There is a modified version of the monitor as published in the past. That is actually an intermediate step on the way to the new Monitor Brede Prosperity. The Minister of EZ sent them to the Chamber, but without any appreciation of this year's monitor, for the simple reason that we are a outgoing cabinet. Three themes have been mentioned by the planning agencies. Mr Snels and Mrs De Vries asked what theme it was going to be. Mrs De Vries's approach is that nothing has to be thematic and that if it does, she has a preference. I think Mr Snels had a different preference. In principle, the planning agencies... Not in principle, because the planning agencies are independent and it is up to them to say: this year we take this or that theme. If the Chamber has strong views on this, the planning agencies will, of course, take note of it with interest. Perhaps they will take these views to heart, but at the moment there are differences of opinion. So we can leave it to the planning agencies to look at what they consider to be socially topical and urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u69	In this context, can the Minister indicate whether the welfare gains will be taken into account by the involvement of volunteers, carers and grandparents who look after grandchildren? As a result, both partners can always work. If that does not happen, the country will actually cease to exist immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u70	I had missed this question from Mr Van Rooijen in the first term. So I can't give the answer right now. If this is a new question, I will give the answer in the second term. The Reconnaissance Broad Prosperity of the Planning Offices, which I have just mentioned, appears periodically, at least annually. Mr Snels asked about asset and debt positions: should they be taken into account by the planning agencies? I very much agree with him that capital and debt are very relevant. Some would even argue that they are more relevant than incomes, because an income is a one-time thing and a debt builds up and stays on. So yes, the current Monitor Sustainable The Netherlands contains a number of indicators in the area of assets and debt, for example pension assets, the net financial position of the Netherlands which is of course macro vis-à-vis foreign debt and government debt. The CBS will review its set of indicators in the development of the monitor. In doing so, it may also be considered whether more or other indicators are needed in relation to assets and debt. Here again, I believe that it is always possible to give specific wishes of the Chamber to the planning agencies. I certainly think they are open to that. That possibility certainly exists. Mr Snels asked about the government's opinion on the changing trend in the socio-economic position in the Netherlands. I don't know if the question has been taken over completely. In my view, the question concerned income relations and income inequality. I do not need to tell Mr Snels that this cabinet has paid a lot of attention to this and that a lot of energy and time has been devoted to it in the bosom of the cabinet. That was also necessary, because it is precisely in times of crisis that constant attention and repair is needed to combat income inequality. The fact that this task has not yet been completed is something on which we agree. This is a continuous process of adjusting, repairing, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u71	I referred on purpose to the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor, because this was precisely a lack of government objectives with regard to security of living. There are good intentions: more permanent jobs, less inequality, balanced burden-sharing, but the results have never been properly understood. The monitor shows that people are concerned about the security of life, the high structural unemployment and the inequality that is increasing. I asked for an appreciation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u72	The Social Cultural Planning Agency's monitor on people's concerns in many areas has been known for a long time; this is not new in itself. Indeed, it is not an explicit objective of policy to reduce people's concerns and their sense of insecurity, but we have, of course, made an effort to get the economy back on track from the crisis, to reduce unemployment and, in the meantime, to put the budget in order. All three objectives have achieved this, but let us not discuss whether this has been done through or despite policy. There are people who have strong views on this. At least it's all moving in the right direction. Uncertainty is currently the major theme in society. This uncertainty applies to incomes, the future and security. In order to make this measurable and to pursue objectives, we need to translate this into fixed contracts, job security, job opportunities and affordable housing, etc. Again, a large theme that is important for many people, namely a sense of uncertainty, must be translated into policy in the sense that it can be made measurable and concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u73	Let me give you two examples. I do not intend to have a sharp debate on this, but I would point out that it was the intention of the cabinet over the last four years to increase the share of fixed contracts and at least not to increase the share of flex contracts. The monitor concludes that this has happened despite government policy. It is therefore interesting to ask for an opinion from the cabinet. The Minister has previously had a sharp debate with our group chairman on increased inequality. This monitor concludes that income inequality has increased over the past four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u74	We shall then repeat the debate. Firstly, the number of fixed contracts is increasing. In this sense, policy is successful if you already want to connect it one-on-one to our policy efforts. At the same time, the labour market is still flexibilising relatively. So it's not all black and white. We cannot say that the reforms in the labour market that we have carried out are therefore complete. There are still far too many people without perspective on a better contract................................................................................................................................................................................................. A subsequent cabinet will therefore also have to make further efforts in this regard. That is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u76	The same applies to income inequality. The debate followed the lines that there has been a crisis that has had a huge impact on people's income. If you get unemployed, you're gonna get a huge fall in income. However, if you look at what the cabinet has done, you will see that this has worked very positively to keep reducing, repairing, reducing income inequality. In this context of the crisis, we have pursued very effective policies in this area by implementing annual income repair measures at the bottom. Those are the well-known discussions about leveling which some people get pimples, but on which I can talk completely relaxed and cheerful. However, we do not need to repeat that debate now. That's how it turned out. I come to information security, a subject that goes through many ministries and specifically controls some departments. Of course, the Minister of BZK is in broad responsibility for this, together with the Minister of V and J when it comes to cybersecurity. All kinds of abbreviations are used. The starting point is the BIR: the Baseline Information Security Agency. It dates back to 2012 and is currently being revised. This autumn, the revised version will be adopted: the BIR 2017. All departments will then have to comply. The specific question was whether we are prepared to inform the Chamber within six months of developments in the information security departmentwide. I'm gonna tell the room. The Court is already informed annually about the status of information security through annual reporting operations, but we will return to this before the end of the year. This will therefore be seen in the three departments that initially talked about how this has been put right. I need to see which ones they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u77	You're going from broad to specific now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u78	Now I'm going into the subject, which was wide, to specific. Of the three departments that initially did not recognize the direction of the General Court, two are now in consultation with the Court of Auditors in order to better understand its criticism and to take it seriously. The third will have to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you for this clear commitment. I would appreciate it if this were to be done in the autumn note, which would provide us with a natural benchmark in the accountability cycle on which this can be taken into account. On 1 December it would also be exactly six months. Are we going to hear the state of affairs in the departments, what the government thinks has been done and what risks there are and need to be resolved at that time? If that is something like that in that letter, at least our expectations are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yeah, that's pretty much what that letter says. I am not linking it to the Navy's note, because from now on I would also be responsible for the information on security at the Empire, while the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible. The Chamber will therefore receive a letter from the Minister of BZK on the development of the security of information in the Empire. It will also respond specifically to the issues raised by the Court of Auditors. I'll give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u81	That's good. I am glad that this conversation has started and that it is going to take place in one of those three departments. I'd like something on top of that. What worries me is that this world is changing very quickly. The minister was just talking about a protocol from 2012; in IT, it's like talking about the Middle Ages. It's happening really fast. Our children know more about this than we do, but let me speak for myself. My question is about this underlying pattern, knowing that this is incredibly sensitive and that many organisations apparently do not have it in order. The Chamber is also entitled to look at itself. In so many departments, the first reaction was defensive. And, so I say to the President who is asking me, one of the irregularities relating to information security was about our own home. But apart from all the information the minister promises, which is good, I ask him: what does the fact that so much is not in order and that the reflex of so many departments was that they denied that there was a problem, about the sense of urgency in this area? Are we sufficiently in control to actually put these points in order and keep them in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u82	In all seriousness: I think the departments are very well aware of that. It is not the case that it was last looked at in 2012. The BIR 2012 is also much more of a strategic framework that prescribes how to work and what guarantees you need to provide. So that's what's constantly invested in. This also explains that some departments, perhaps unwise, have initially reacted somewhat defensively to 'we do not recognize your criticism', because they are constantly working on it. That's not the right attitude. The good attitude must be: oh, you have criticism, we would like to learn from it, where are still vulnerabilities in our systems? That conversation is taking place now. We need to make national agreements with the Court of Auditors to ensure that information security is put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u83	That's clear. I didn't imply that it hadn't been thought about since 2012; I was more concerned about how quickly the world is changing. As regards the letter we are going to receive from BZK, I would like to ask the Minister to direct the Minister for Foreign Affairs that my group would like to hear a little more about how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to conduct things more strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u84	He already does. He's responsible for that, too. So that's what he'll go into in the letter. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u85	That's good. Where the link with the Navy note has now been dropped, it seems to me that we should be able to receive a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u86	No. That is how I know Mr Van Weyenberg: you say something and he says that it must be done sooner, faster and differently. No, we're not gonna do that. In the autumn, you will receive a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on progress, including on progress in the departments following the direction of the General Court. That's the time to pick that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u87	Finally, I should like to say a word about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u88	I understand that perhaps not everything has been completed, but the situation is that three departments reacted defensively and two have now started the conversation. I would like to have a picture before the summer or the urgency felt by the Chamber is felt in those ministries. I understand that the Minister says that he does not have the results of all the improvement projects before the summer, but I would like to be able to call again before the summer if I have the impression that the urgency is not being translated sufficiently, including in the discussions with the Court of Auditors. I am not asking the Minister for the results, but I do want to be able to keep my finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u89	But then we agree that we cut it in half and I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to specify specifically how the consultation with the ARK has gone and whatever follow-up these three departments have given to it. The letter about the state-wide policy will follow later. Then we cut it in half. Many questions have been asked about the knowledge of ICT in the Empire. As we know, there are two specialist traineeships at the Empire, with which we bring in people early in two specialist fields. For the financial function, this is the financial traineeship that prepares start-ups for the financial function of the Empire in two years. They follow these two years of internal training in different places and departments. That is where we draw out talented, ambitious new employees' finances; I mean not specifically staff for the Ministry of Finance but staff for the financial function. The same is happening for the state-wide ICT training programme, with which we bring in junior ICT professionals. This is one of the measures that follow from the cabinet response to the final report of the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects at the government, you are better known as the Elias Commission. That's where this comes from. With this we gain a lot of current knowledge and skills about ICT from the government and are also reduced external hire. There are also specific labour market campaigns. Work is under way on the state-wide sharing of CVs of potential ICT workers and the setting up of an ICT placement agency. In the short term, BZK will draw up a plan of action with additional policies and initiatives to address further bottlenecks towards the future. That is what the Chamber will be able to look forward to in 2017. At the end of the year, the Audit Service will re-examine information security in all departments. The scope of that mission is now being aligned, with minimal consideration being given to the follow-up of previous findings on critical systems. By 2017, the departments should provide a so-called in-control declaration early 2018, which also identifies the risks and provides a response. Mrs De Vries asked about the situation in large implementation institutions such as the UWV and the SVB. The state-wide regulations, of which I have just referred to the abbreviation BIR, have the scope of government service. So they also look at income-burden services and agencies. But they don't see them on ZBOs. However, the Boards of Directors of the UWV and the SVB have signed an agreement with the Secretary-General of SZW, which stipulates that both major institutions will apply the BIR as a standard framework. That is therefore also applicable to them. That agreement includes that these two institutions estimate that they need two years of passage time to fully meet the requirements of the Baseline Information Security Agency, or the BIR. I'm here to talk to you about the IRS. The first question was clearly formulated, namely whether it is not painful for the Minister of Finance to have so many shortcomings in his own department and in the Tax Administration. The answer to that is: yes, that is painful. Most of them are known to the Chamber because they have to do with the problems of the Tax Administration. I would like to mention the problems surrounding the Investment Agenda and the departure arrangements which have been examined and described by Mr Borstlap and Mr Joustra. So the majority of these deficiencies actually point to the same thing. The Court of Auditors, of course, has already pointed out risks related to IT systems and so on. There have been specific questions asked that I will walk by. A more general question of concern was whether the Charge Service is now able to shape a further tax reform. In this context, I would like to comment on what I said in the interview about the CDA proposal for the flat fee. I can tell you that this remark was not intended as political support for the idea of a flat tax. On the basis of the electoral programmes, I noted that there are actually few proposals for real system reforms. The parties' proposals concern a lot of adjustments to the system and they are proposals that often add complexity. The CDA was complimented on the fact that the flat tax could theoretically simplify the system. I see that Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union also feels addressed. Oh, look, the whole confessional angle now supports the flat tax. This flat tax could therefore, in a theoretical sense, be a simplification of the system. I have also seen variants in which subtariffs and so on are added. So the complexity is soon back. That was my comment on the flat tax. Back to the IRS. The tax authorities can, of course, handle the necessary things. It's not like it's not gonna be able to make any adjustments anymore. The Secretary of State has also sent a letter on this subject, with examples of simplification of legislation which the Tax Administration would like to implement without problems and even because it would simply reduce the vulnerability in implementation. A genuinely large system review, once again, I have not found it in most election programmes, which would have more feet in the earth. Executable is an important touchstone. One of the ways to do this carefully is to take the time and not do it all at once. That doesn't always make it easier. Sometimes it's easier to do it all at once. However, its vulnerability, if it goes wrong, is greater. The factor time is important not to make chunks. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the ARAR. He said that the departure scheme is legitimate, but isn't it because the ARAR is far too wide, too wide and too vague? Following the provisions offered by the Tax Administration to the staff, it will be proposed to the unions that the ARAR article on which those provisions were based should be adapted in such a way as to make it clearer that this is intended for individual cases, not for collective schemes. For the original wording, collective application was neither foreseen nor intended. Such clarification would therefore make sense. At the same time, departments now know more clearly that this is not the intention and can voluntarily refrain from doing so. But if we change it in the ARAR, it's obvious to everyone. That's our bet. Mr Omtzigt is standing by the interrupting microphone, but it might be useful to do this pile of tax authorities first, otherwise he might repeat his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u90	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u91	Several members have asked questions about the assignment and have stated that there is another half a billion to be assigned to the Tax Administration or yet to be implemented. Three Members have said so, including Mrs Leijten. However, that is not the case. It is a cumulative accumulation of targets, most of which have already been implemented. In the coming years, they will be a little further, but cumulatively, on the basis of various government agreements, half a billion has already been cut back on the Tax Administration. Something's coming up. Structurally, it's still up by 32 million. It is already invested in measures, and it is already in place, of course, while maintaining continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr Omtzigt has a question on the previous point I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u93	About the ARAR, Article 49xx, the braking system. It's been declared applicable. The Minister now says, and I thank him for his commitment, that it is indeed intended as an individual scheme, not as a collective scheme. Everyone was allowed out, as long as you were replaced. At that time, the House of Representatives specifically asked the Court of Auditors whether that was lawful. The Court of Auditors comes up with a fairly precise answer. It is legitimate if the places from which someone left are filled by people who would otherwise be fired. They say that could be possible with Customs and the FIOD. Then it would seem possible to apply this article and then it would remain just within the law. So we will only remain within the law if those few hundred Customs agents and some dozens of FIOD employees who have quit are exclusively replaced by people from other parts of the Tax Office of Fees or what else would be fired. Is this the bet or are we going to recruit externally? In the second case, we are dealing here with an illegality. The money is then not only spent inefficiently but we had already come to the conclusion that this was ineffective but also illegally spent. My question to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u94	I already had the question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u95	You'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u96	This question was raised in the first period. Asking the question is also an answer, because of course it is not our commitment to act unjustly. So, yes, the flexibility there is in time, you will have some time to do it like this, and we will use it to ensure that we do not act unjustly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u97	This means that there will be no external recruitment at customs. That's a lot to say. There is now a shortage of hundreds of customs officers, which makes all kinds of transports in Rotterdam fly through. That means, to stay within the ARAR, it will take us years to retrain people from elsewhere. Is that what the Minister says here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u98	I think the committee will soon have another AO with Mr Wiebes. I suggest that this subject be discussed further there. Otherwise, I'll have to come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u99	The Chamber has decided that this is not only the plenary debate, but also the discussion of Chapter IX. I would have liked that to be different. I had even signed up to act as rapporteur on behalf of the committee. This means that these questions about Chapter IX need to be answered very pertinently here in this debate, as opposed to the specific questions about other chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u100	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u101	It's been pretty hard with the cuts and the reorganisation at the IRS. We have even heard that disciplinary matters by notaries have to be dealt with, because there have been people who have been unauthorized. I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. There's been a statement that there might be disciplinary issues. Or don't they have to be over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u102	People don't hear Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u103	No, that's a little tricky. It's been hard. Reorganisations go hard sometimes. Sometimes that leads to you making chunks you don't want to make. The minister says there's 32 million left to cut. This has already been entered and implemented, and this does not affect continuity. Doesn't that affect staff and ICT?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u104	I can also return in the second term to the implementation of the remaining tasks for the Tax Administration. I don't have the overview right now. Of course, you cannot say that does not affect staff and ICT. Those are the biggest expenditure items in the Tax Administration, so that seems unthinkable to me. The question is whether continuity is ensured by further rolling out the Investment Agenda and the very targeted measures we have taken to ensure continuity. Several speakers have asked the Prime Minister that question. The Prime Minister will be right back. I can assure you that continuity is assured. We have taken very specific additional measures and also made targeted money available to ensure continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u105	What kind of analysis does the Minister make? You're cutting back at first, but apparently that's going so hard that chunks are being made. We all know the discussions over the last few years about the IRS. They weren't alone, but they were mostly about the departure plan. The Investment Agenda is now there and 32 million savings are still being made. The risk is, of course, that at some point no one can tie a rope to it. I really wonder if this is still justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mrs Leijten is right. There are a number of targets from successive government offices on the state services, including the Tax Administration. They are being implemented gradually. Mrs Leijten suggested that half a billion more had to be saved on the Tax Office. It really isn't. We're really talking about the tail of that. In order to achieve that goal and at the same time reduce vulnerabilities in the Tax Administration, we have developed the Investment Agenda. It is also a question of big money, but it is a one-off investment. Part of this has been done and the Secretary of State regularly informs you about this and a large part will still take place. This also enables us to set up a number of functions in the Tax Administration in a different way. Some people leave the IRS and others are just being brought in. The third block of the whole, just to structure it, is the departure scheme. In the context of letting go of a part of the people and bringing in new people, a departure scheme has been designed that has been unmanageable. This has often been discussed and corrected. In order to tackle possible risks arising from the latter, we have said again: there, there and there, people need to be included. That's the repair I meant when I said we put money back here and there to make sure no holes fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u107	Indeed, we have talked about all the fuss about that departure scheme on a regular basis. There would be a staff plan, but the Secretary of State had to say later that he had said so, but that there was no personnel approach plan at all. Now the Minister says: continuity is guaranteed! That is his answer to the question that I had indeed asked the Prime Minister, who was not back at the time but is now back with us. Continuity is guaranteed, the Minister just said. On the one hand, of course, that is very good news. And yet I have a double feeling about it. I am shocked that the Court of Auditors is not in a position to assess this. In all the text devoted to this by the Court of Auditors in the investigation, it is stressed that there are quite considerable concerns about this continuity. On the one hand, therefore, the Minister gives the answer: it is secured! That is the answer I am most reassured by, of course. On the other hand, there are all the concerns that the Court of Auditors has and which have already been reported to the Court of Auditors. Can the Minister explain to me why there's so much room between those two? I think there is a strong difference in tone between that and I'm trying to understand where that comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u108	This is because it is two different things and because it is said from two different responsibilities. The Court of Auditors has identified no less than eight shortcomings around the Tax Administration. The Court of Auditors will rightly be told that it is only when it has been adequately addressed that we can say with greater certainty that it is in order and the risks are addressed. However, I stand here as politically responsible. It is inconceivable that I should say to the Chamber: the continuity of the Tax Administration is not guaranteed. It is unthinkable that I should say: I do not know and we should see how things are going. You see, that's unthinkable! I'm the political officer. We have, of course, looked closely at the vulnerabilities, and we have also acted on them and taken measures. Measures have been taken in several places where problems could arise, for example through the departure scheme. We'll keep doing that. And we will also and again act where new problems or vulnerabilities would arise, and in the case of risks that the Court sees and the Court of Auditors rightly points out. We will then ensure that these risks are addressed. This ensures the continuity of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u109	It can be said that, on the one hand, continuity can be guaranteed, but, on the other hand, we believe that it is still not in order in the Tax Administration, even if the eight irregularities are there. Those two things aren't always one-on-one the same. The Secretary of State admitted in previous debates that he was not in control. He also sent letters to the Chamber about how he wanted to get the control back and how he wanted to ensure that continuity would be secured in the future. I hold on to the clear political judgment. But I do see a need to continue to guarantee the independent role of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors must keep its finger on the pulse. However, this is not something for this debate. Let me put it this way: that continuity is far from self-evident at the moment. The Minister's political judgment is clear. I get that, considering his role. But the concerns of the Court of Auditors make me think that I should speak for myself and say that there is a need for continued alertness. My conclusion is that it is a very fragile structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right. As long as we have no less than eight shortcomings, the Chamber must continue to push and pull and we must also remain extremely alert. We must prevent the risks that are underneath from materialising. But we're on top of that every day. That is also our responsibility. We have a different role to play here from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors looks at this and says: well, we see problems, risks and so on. Our role is to be on top of it every day, with the science and hand-outs given by Joustra and Borstlap and confirmed and addressed by the Court of Auditors. We have to act on that every day. We must therefore ensure that continuity is and remains guaranteed every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u111	Then I have a very fundamental policy question for the Minister. Of course, we will continue to talk with the Secretary of State about the Investment Agenda and the whole situation at the Tax Office in the near future. Also in connection with the Borstlap report, the Minister, as the final person responsible, used that word just as he said that he is also ultimately responsible for what has happened so far and has gone wrong. Shouldn't you look back at each other and ask whether the savings of half a billion on the Tax Office, with all the personnel cuts that have been made, were not unwise? It is well known that every official in the Tax Administration pays money on balance and does not cost money. So cutting back is always wrong. Shouldn't you make an exception in the main case of a major austerity operation for the Tax Administration, which has to bring in the full pot, the 100%? Shouldn't you be looking back and say, "We shouldn't have done this?" This is not related to anything that went wrong afterwards and at the same time, apart from the hard austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u112	Just so we're clear, the answer to that is really no. I do not think that the tax authorities should be exempt from cuts or targets. And, yes, I believe that the Tax Administration must also be kept on a constant basis as to whether it can do its tasks more efficiently and more effectively. I'm just trying to isolate the mistakes that have been made with the departure scheme, but honestly, the modernisation that we're doing now at the Tax Office should have happened much earlier. You're actually saying, shouldn't we have left the IRS alone? My answer is: no, it should have happened much sooner. The Tax Administration has been left in a certain isolation for years; with the confidence that it was all right, he has left far too much alone. I blame myself for that, too. We should have acted much earlier, for example on what we are going to call the Investment Agenda. We should have invested in the IT systems sooner. We should have made a change to a different way of working earlier. And yes, that also means changes in the composition of the workforce, which has been at a very high level for years. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u113	The debate on the Tax Administration has been discussed in detail and on a number of occasions. There will be a general discussion next week. So let us not repeat debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u114	I have a question for the Minister, apart from the Secretary of State. I understand the IRS needs to modernise. It was like that in my day. Then the Tax Administration was the first in the world to acquire a large IBM computer. So we might have gone ahead then, but that's always a disadvantage later. In the Tax Administration there is a great concern that came out last week about horizontal supervision, whether or not with conditions. In particular, the National Auditor Service does not control the large companies properly anymore. So there's a lot of money missing there. Surely the Minister cannot deny that there should be a great priority and that new steps should be taken there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u115	There is no misunderstanding: the Tax Administration is, of course, crucial. If the Tax Office is no longer functioning and we would therefore miss large tax revenues, then of course we have a huge problem and you must send me home. But that is why I am saying here that we should not have done the modernisation but that we should have done it earlier. You can also appeal to us that the continuity at this difficult stage we must go through is not at risk, for precisely that reason. But it's not the other way around. It doesn't lead to the conclusion: don't do it, leave the Tax Administration alone because he pays himself back all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u116	I would like to make a final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u117	That was not the point of my speech. I agree with the Minister that the Tax Administration should also modernise. I think you should be very careful when you cut taxes. My specific question, to which the Minister does not answer, is: should the control of books, the investigation of the National Audit Office in multinational companies and large companies be given a higher priority because the signals are out of the field that these controls are no longer taking place and that horizontal supervision is not enough instead? Large companies are therefore not controlled for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u118	This issue of monitoring is best discussed with the Secretary of State. Recently, the new Dg of the Tax Administration has expressed its views on this in a letter to the organisation. You can continue this discussion with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u119	Yes, and tomorrow evening there will also be a debate on the Tax Administration, tax agreements and multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u120	I have a brief supplementary question on the letter from the new dg, Mr Uijlenbroek. Does the Minister support the letter in which he states that horizontal supervision should be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u121	We can set things up three times. This has nothing to do with Accountability Day. The Chamber will have several AO's with the Secretary of State in the next few weeks. I am sure that will be the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u122	You have tried, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Omtzigt asked the specific question: when did the government know that a large number of employees were advised to re-apply after 1 July with a date just before 1 July? The suggestion was that this would produce a better financial result and that there would even be falsehood in writing. This question is not in line with the Court's findings. The General Court has found that a large number of staff have been advised to reapply an application to benefit from the scheme, but with a date just before 1 July. This observation can be seen on employees who reported in February last year and for example indicated that they would like to leave on 1 September. They have been informed that this is not possible. According to the rules of the exit scheme, i.e. outflow within three months, this was not possible. Those employees were therefore informed that, if they only want to outflow on 1 September, for example, they will have to register at a later date, so that this falls within the rule of outflow within three months. That's what happened there. The situation, as Mr Omtzig has outlined to her, has not occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u124	The Minister says that all applications that have been made again have also entered the Tax Office before 1 July, so that there are no cases where people have antedated something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u125	No, there's no antedate. People have been informed: if you do not want to outflow until later this year, you will have to submit your application later, because after the application has been submitted, outflow must take place within three months. That's the rule in the departure plan. The people who said they didn't want to drain until September 2016 were told: you shouldn't apply for it now, but you should submit the application within three months, so later. That's what they've been told. Those people then took back their application and submitted it at a later date, because they simply didn't want to flow out until later. That's what happened there. That is what the Court of Auditors notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u126	I would just like to read out what the Court of Auditors says: 'We have found that a large number of staff who had applied after 1 July to make use of the scheme has been advised to make the application again, but with a date just before 1 July'. So it literally says that the application was made after 1 July. Now the Minister says that these were applications that would have been made in February or March with a date after 1 July. To avoid a lot of back and forth now, I would like to ask if I may receive a very specific letter on this. We all know where the problem lies. If the final application was submitted before 1 July, there is no material problem, as the applicant was always entitled to that high exit premium. But if there is an antedate after 1 July, then there is a problem. After consulting the General Court of Auditors, which has just written a different sentence here, I would like to have the Chamber, which is generally very precise, from the Secretary of State for Wednesday, a very precise report, so that we can involve ourselves in the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u127	That's fine. But the sentence that Mr Omtzigt reads is exactly the same sentence as the one I have just read. That has nothing to do with antedating, which I really distance myself from. After all, this calls for the atmosphere that something inaudible has happened here, and we must not let that go. This has really to do with the fact that the exit scheme includes that outflow must take place within three months. If, therefore, one wanted to leave at a later date, one had not to submit the application until, for example, 1 July, so that one stayed within those three months. That's why. For this reason, people have withdrawn their previous application, with the intention of coming back later, because they wanted to flow out at a later date. But if Mr Omtzigt doesn't want to take it from me, we'll put it in a letter. Why do we not know where the money for appropriate education ends up? Most of the money, over 1.7 billion out of 2.4 billion, goes to special education, including secondary special education, practical education and special primary education. As is well known, the groups in these schools are much smaller than in mainstream education. The other resources go to the partnerships, which distribute the money among regular schools, to provide additional support for pupils there. There is no evidence that the partnerships spend the money improperly or unlawfully. Each association has received an approval from the auditor. At the same time, we must accept the Court's conclusion and appeal to us to improve the transparency and accountability of how the money is spent. That is why the State Secretary of OCW has launched a number of actions. A working group has been set up with the regional partnerships and OCW in order to achieve a uniform and standardised manner of accountability. Important point from the Court of Auditors: decentralisation is a political choice, but you should come up with many more standardised ways of explaining. This also applies to decentralisation to municipalities; this involves decentralisation from OCW to regional contexts. Furthermore, legislation is in preparation which obliges schools and partnerships to publish the annual reports. That is one of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Finally, this year the development of the Dashboard Appropriate Education will be completed. This allows collaborations and boards to see how the partnership develops, compared to other partnerships in the country. This is not the same as the discussion about lump sum payment and the accountability that ensues from it. It is true that, particularly in the negotiations with D66, the cabinet has allocated extra money to education. Some of it just went into the lumpsum. There are not all kinds of objectives attached to this. If we do want to do that in future, I would not want to do it to the schools. That choice must be made, but it has not been done. Lumpsum is intended to finance the schools. Most of the costs are, of course, personnel costs. A part consists of installation and maintenance of buildings, et cetera. Schools have a great deal of freedom in this. At the end, a test will be carried out by the Education Inspectorate on the results. The lumpsum discussion is another than that about appropriate education, because it is a different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u128	If I take into account the Court's conclusions, I read that the new system would give more insight into the policy results. The Court's conclusion is that this has not been achieved. It is not clear how many students receive additional support, as the registration is unreliable. The Minister says that no errors have been detected and there is an audit report. But this Court of Auditors' assessment is so clear and clear that I wonder how it relates to the more reassuring response that the Minister has just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u129	I have acknowledged and endorsed the criticisms made by the Court of Auditors. I have also indicated what action the Secretary of State for Education has already put in place, precisely because this is right. Moreover, this is a classic example in which, at the start of the reform, appropriate education was a reform, with the whole funding and guidance of special education being transferred to the partnerships, and the objectives should have been defined specifically. Moreover, it is very doubtful whether the objective is to support as many children as possible. It is not in itself an objective of the policy to bring as many children as possible into special education in the Netherlands or to provide special facilities. The money must reach the good people and the support must be appropriate. Having said that, we must ensure that we formulate a good indicator. I do not think that the number of children is a good indicator, but this is the discussion you need to have with each other. Because that did not happen at the beginning, it will be quite a job to conclude now, even if we had the figures, whether appropriate education is a success. The number of children sitting at home is a good indicator. Unless they're children, whose parents basically opt for home education. That possibility still exists in the Netherlands. You can find all sorts of things about that. But this is exactly the type of discussion that we need to have much better and more precise with each other. What do we really want to achieve? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u130	I welcome the Minister's reply. I think that is very clear, but I also hear the Minister say that the objective at the beginning of the scheme is not sufficiently formulated and that, because it is not well and clearly formulated, it is then difficult to test, because what is to be tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u131	It's both true. It is also true that the partnerships do not identify and account for what they spend the money on. It is also true, however, that at the start of appropriate education we have not sufficiently formulated what improvement we really want to achieve and on the basis of which indicator it should be measurable. So both things should have happened. That can happen, and it will have to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u132	I have a short question. Can the Minister ask the Minister of Education to look again, retroactively, so at the moment, what should the objectives, which in the past were unclear, be? That will help us with the next billions of expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u133	I think this is an example where that should indeed be done. The actions of the State Secretary are very much in favour of the method of accountability, make it transparent, but the prior or at least parallel discussion is what you are going to justify, which indicators will then appear on the dashboard. That will have to be discussed with the Chamber. I will therefore pass on this point to the Secretary of State for Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u134	Could you please tell me how far you are with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u135	I'm a long way. All I have left is the "other" folder. By the way, that's a big map. Mrs Leijten specifically asked about keeping schools open in Nijmegen and Oss. This is a typical example, in which the regional groupings have to consider whether there is a sufficiently coherent set of support in the region, and whether those specific schools that I have no further opinion on are crucial in this respect and should remain open or that it can be organised in another way in the region. I have also been a spokesperson in this area, and I know what difficult discussions this leads to. However, we have chosen to leave the assessment of how to obtain a coherent offer for these children in this region to the regional partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u136	For example, we make a lot of money available for education for children with disabilities, care needs and so on, but we do not really know where the money ends up. It's decentralized. Action is being taken in these schools and there is a need for these schools; the municipality also stands up for such schools. If you say "let's put things right, let's at least make sure that until then this kind of special education schools doesn't close down," it's said: that's not what we're about. That's really tragic, isn't it? How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u137	I don't know. I do not know the case, so I have no judgment as to whether these schools should remain open or not. You really shouldn't ask me that. I really don't know anything about these two examples. As a government we have said: we are making a transition for all kinds of central arrangements. By the way, they worked far from spotless; I can still remember the criticism of the SP on the way it was arranged for appropriate education. They were all central arrangements with bureaucracy, counters, indicators and so on. We have transferred it to partnerships in which we "force" the schools to actually work together to give all children a place etc. Saying that when a collaboration is decided to close a school or to organise things differently, that is not allowed, means that we are again intervening from The Hague. If that's what you want, don't decentralize. This is a legitimate political choice: we want to regulate everything centrally. Then you have to have another discussion with each other: was appropriate education a good idea, shouldn't it go back to the department of OCW, which then decides which school remains open and which doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u138	I think there's something in between. You can keep amenities and say "we decentralize anyway." We have not properly formulated the objectives to be achieved. See the criticism of the Court of Auditors and the questions raised in this Chamber on this particular subject. The result is: more children are relieved of compulsory schooling. It's called more kids at home who don't get education at school. Schools with this kind of special education are also closed, although there are enough pupils. You can also choose a middle way. You can say: we see that appropriate education is a wish and we think it should be about that, but we do not want to throw away shoes until we have new ones. That's what I'm asking for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u139	I think that Mrs Leijten's proposal, apart from these two schools, will lead us to end up completely in the middle. We transferred it to partnerships. It's just a legal arrangement. They get the money and a legal assignment. When they make a decision, the SP says: no, we don't want to; if there is no better accountability, we get it back. You can't, then you have to review the appropriate education law first to reverse it. That's not possible. What can be done is to remove the shortcomings that remain within the way appropriate education is now being carried out. Think more precisely about what the goals we want to achieve and how they are justified. You need to get some energy on that. I would prefer not to put my energy into the ad hoc committee that is in violation of the law to bring it back to The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u140	The fact that a SP is being accused of getting out in the middle is quite crazy, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u141	A compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u142	I don't know. I don't think this is meant to be either. This is about organising good education for all, with control. In the two schools I mentioned as an example, the Sint Maartensschool in Nijmegen and Den Bongerd in Oss, teachers together with pupils and parents take action to keep the school open. They cannot go to the partnership. We pulled our hands off it, "so figure it out," but we'll pay. However, we do not understand how the money is spent. The interim solution I propose is as follows. Until we can see whether this big bag of money is being spent on the goals, we say to the partnerships in our country: well, we want to know how the money is being spent; in the meantime, you do not close schools for special education, especially when teachers, students and parents are taking action to keep the school open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u143	That is a difficult road, no matter how much sympathy I have for those parents, those children and those teachers. Those partnerships make all kinds of decisions. They decide the billions we just talked about. They decide how budgets are distributed among all schools in a region. Then why are these decisions still allowed? Or does Mrs Leijten say: no, all decisions must be stopped now; if anyone does not agree, if there is a protest, then no decision should be taken until we have improved accountability? No, you can't. There's surveillance from the inspection. If there are problems, there is also provision for procedures that prescribe how to deal with them. There's legal protection for parents. So there are all kinds of ways to intervene if things don't go well, but you can't say ad hoc: there's now some protest in these partnerships and the Court of Auditors has identified a deficiency or a weakness; you know what, we're taking the administration away from the collaborations again until the problem identified by the Court of Auditors has been addressed. I expressed myself diplomatically by saying that we are coming out in the middle. You can also say: we end up in chaos. We really shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u144	No, no, you will not have the floor now, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u145	It does not serve children if there is a complete lack of clarity as to who actually decides about all that money, about the billions that we have to help children. However, that is what is happening in the SP proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u146	The discussion is starting to derail a little bit. I'd still like to finish this. You will have the opportunity to correct something, but I would ask you not to reopen the discussion, Mrs Leijten. You also have a second term and the Prime Minister still has to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u147	My proposal does not mean that you create chaos; my proposal means that you listen to what people want. If you have made an arrangement in which apparently the wishes of teachers, pupils and parents are not heard, you have made a mistake. Listening to that doesn't mean creating chaos, but just driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u148	You've made your point. I suggest that the Minister continue his response and not provoke it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u149	I got one question about migration and asylum. Mr Van Dijck asked how the costs of the reception in 2016 could be about the same as those of the previous year, while the number of asylum seekers was halved. The reception in 2016 and its costs are largely linked to the high influx in 2015. People did not all come in on 1 January and left the shelter on 31 December. That goes on to a large extent. And yes, there is indeed a problem of high capacity that gradually becomes empty again and needs to be closed down. This also entails costs; the scaling down of housing and staff also takes time. As you can see, the cost of receiving asylum seekers is gradually falling again. That money goes back to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u150	I have two questions. One: how much is an asylum seeker in the freshman shelter? Two: is the COA entitled to conclude long-term contracts until 2021 with all kinds of holiday parks that are then empty and for which the rent still has to be paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr Van Dijck himself mentioned the amounts we spend on the first year reception of asylum seekers on an annual basis. He knows the numbers related to the inflow in 2015 and 2016. The answer to his second question is: yes, the COA is entitled to conclude contracts to make capacity available. It must, of course, do so as best it can on the basis of estimates. In recent years, these estimates have often been overtaken by reality. That was first in a negative sense; at first there were many more asylum seekers than expected. Later, the number dropped very quickly, for example thanks to agreements with Turkey. The COA constantly tries to adapt to it and to keep flexibility in it, but of course it is not the case that you can conclude and cancel contracts from one moment to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u152	The question is this. You conclude a contract until 2021 with some holiday park, but it is uncertain whether you will use that capacity. Who will ensure that contracts with all kinds of parties are not concluded far too generously and far too long? Then there is a waste, because a park that is not used but for which you have to pay rent is a waste of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u153	First of all, the Ministry of V and J oversees that. That's the client of the COA. Secondly, the IRF looks along with how state money is spent. Thirdly, there is the Court of Auditors and finally the House of Representatives. If Mr Van Dijck thinks it should be looked at specifically, then he should ask the question in this way. The House of Representatives has instruments to ask that kind of specific questions. Let me look at the most urgent issues. Mr Tony van Dijck asked about tax deductions, which would be unclear what they cost. He asked me why. According to him, for billions of dollars of taxes are being missed. He says we don't know what the effect is and asks if it's being investigated. It has been investigated: the report of the General Court of Auditors on tax relief schemes. The Chamber has asked questions about this. They're being answered right now. The comprehensive written response will be sent to the Chamber very soon. Mr Omtzigt asked a question on how to repay the student debt. There is no known address for 23,000 refunders. These are mainly people who live abroad. He's asking how this is tackled. This point, of course, has the full attention. DUO has invested extra in recovery abroad. DUO is getting better and faster to find out about people abroad. In 2016, 17,000 were traced. This includes cooperation with countries such as Belgium and Curaçao. DUO was able to invest an additional 3 million in 2016. That's how he got 32 million extra back. A great deal of attention is therefore paid to this. Mr Omtzigt also asked about administrative burden and regulatory burden. For this purpose, quantified targets have been included in the coalition agreement for this period. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for BZK have informed the Chamber that 2.48 billion out of 2.5 billion euros this was the target achieved. Mr Omtzigt thinks that this is a paper reality. My picture is that we have an independent, independent college to assess whether the objectives are being met and how the administrative burden and regulatory burden are being assessed. If that method were not good, I would have to talk to EZ and Actal about it. I have no reason to believe that this method will create a paper reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u154	A brief question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u155	I have given three examples. The first example is that according to a letter from the government, the police would have saved more than 5,000 FTEs by reducing the administrative burden, while the chief of police says that this is not noticed in the workplace. Well, that can't be both true. The second example is that the letter also states that administrative burdens have been saved by introducing pgbs. Well, no pgb recognizes that, so I can assure the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u156	And the third example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u157	The third example: the fact that the model agreements, which have been concluded after the abolition of the VAR, are not mandatory, would lead to less administration for thezzp'ers. Honestly, I don't think any of the zzp organization recognizes that. My question is: does the cabinet insist that these three matters constitute an administrative burden reduction? And is the Minister prepared to ask Actal if the models have been correctly applied? Then we can take it from there. Now, however, there is a very big difference between what is experienced in the field and what exists as a paper reality. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u158	This objective of government policy extends to the whole cabinet policy, across all departments. There are at least two of these three specific examples where there is a significant problem of implementation. However, the extent to which all kinds of government measures lead to more or less burden burdens is assessed by a separate institution. It is up to her to assess whether this actually leads to administrative burden relief. If the Chamber thinks that this institution is not doing its job well, it can speak to the Minister of EZ and the institution itself, but I cannot say that it is wrong. That wouldn't be based on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u159	That's why I'm asking this. It is not the calculations of the institution but those of the government itself. That's a crucial difference. That's why I'm asking: does the government itself believe it? If so, will she submit it to Actal? The reason I catch the police is that there's a quarter of the administrative cost savings the government thought it was gonna get. So it's not a marginal thing; it's a huge bite. Is the government prepared to submit this to Actal, see if Actal recognizes these figures or not, and tell us if it is the case in these three random cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u160	On the question "Does the government believe it itself?" The answer is always yes, but I suggest that I pass on the second question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Then he can answer that question himself or indeed submit the question to Actal, and then let the Chamber know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u161	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you. I now give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr. Chairman. Let us now turn to the really big themes. No, you're not! The Minister of Finance has answered most of the questions. I have one more question. First of all, there are the questions that have been asked about the Defense Department. Why can't we make use of the investment budget available? Defense has had to deal with underrealisation of the available budget for a number of years. Several factors play a role in this and they are actually in the entire acquisition chain. In doing so, you need to look at the demand capacity, the buying and purchasing capacity and delays by suppliers and delivery times of suppliers. The Court has been informed of this, also to ensure that the investment rate is now increased. It turns out it's paying off. We are now seeing an upward trend in the investment ratio. It has been increasing by one percentage point per year since 2014. In addition, the unurbanised investment budget shifts to later years. This will also prevent the removal of projects which will have to be carried out later than planned. The situation at V and J with regard to the deficiencies that have occurred there has been asked. The General Court notes that V and J are doing much better. That is why the findings of the General Court have been recognised in the past and also now, and are working quickly and hard on them. This has been intensified since the summer of 2016 by the previous Minister, Van der Steur. Further concrete measures have been taken, including a number of centralised tasks. Think of purchasing and finance. Since the summer of 2016, the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have also been more closely involved in the budget negotiations. That brings me to the transfer of the police to V and J, which happened in 2010. Shouldn't the police be going back to BZK? A letter was sent to the Chamber on 11 July last year by the Minister of V and J. In it, Minister Van der Steur appointed on behalf of the cabinet that the cabinet does not see the advantages of changing police responsibilities. Since 2010 we have strived for a compact, sober and very effective state service. We continued this with this cabinet from 2012. In particular, it was also due to the desire to see social themes and issues more closely linked. In the case of the MH17, for the sake of shortness, the following shall apply. If the Public Prosecutor's Office called on the Cabinet to support it in its work, the Cabinet would do so immediately. However, the cabinet will never call Ukraine or Russia itself about the criminal settlement of the MH17. This would give the impression that the Dutch Government has a view on who is to blame. The only person who can establish this is the Public Prosecutor's Office in close cooperation with the partners in the Joint Investigation Team. However, I have already given that answer here about a hundred times, and Mr Omtzigt will continue to ask that question a hundred times, and then he will receive that answer a hundred times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u165	The Public Prosecutor's Office and ultimately the judge................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's being worked very hard to do that. However, in the e-zine, the e-magazine of the Public Prosecutor's Office, one month ago, it was noted that the Public Prosecutor's Office already in October 2014 made a request for legal aid and that this went through the Dutch government to Russia for two radar stations. The first radar station has been extensively changed here. The second radar station is in Buterinskaya. The Russians said on 21 July 2014, four days after the shooting down, that they saw what happened there. The D.A.'s office says that after three years, we haven't had a response. But that was an official question from the Dutch government. In what way is it going to be if the government does not receive an answer to such an important question about significant potential evidence in a court of law? The government writes in its documents that the entire international community is working well together. Is it a good cooperation if there is no answer after two and a half years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u166	I think that Mr Omtzigt really needs to decide for himself whether he wants to continue making a political number of MH17 or whether he wants us to ever come to a conclusion and hopefully condemn the bastards who did this. If he wants the second, I challenge him to ask again whether the position of the Dutch Government is not the right one. We do not want to have a political fingerprint on the investigation in any way. We only take actions and follow-up actions if the D.A. asks us to. I'm not making any further announcements about that. I'm not going to say anything about that in a public debate. If I did, I would repeat myself for the 101st time now, and it will simply be the case that people in Moscow, Kiev or anywhere else will say: the Dutch cabinet does indeed have a substantive view on what happened there. If that were the case, the chances of successful prosecution and trial of the bastards who did it will diminish. I say again to Mr Omtzigt that he does not have to doubt for a second that if the Dutch Government is asked by the prosecutor to do something, to get things loose, to call, to request legal aid or to follow up, it will do so. But if we communicate about it in public, give a weighting or say how we interpret the requests from the prosecution or what the prosecution subsequently reports about them, then politics crawls into the investigation. And I don't want to. Only the D.A. can do that. Only the D.A. can ask follow-up questions. The Public Prosecutor knows that it is never, never, never in vain an appeal to me, Bert Koenders or anyone in the Dutch government to help. There is always some kind of undertone in Mr Omtzigt's questions and that irritates me so, Mr President. Well, that's what I'm saying now. Mr Omtzigt pretends that the Dutch Government thinks that we should not interfere, because we have an interest in a good relationship with Russia or Ukraine. I only have one interest, and I've said it here before. The relationships with all those countries can be stolen as long as they stand in the way of a successful detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of bringing down MH17. That's all that matters here. That's all that matters. That's how we're in here, and I'm not going to deviate a millimeter from that. Because if I were to think for a second what Mr Omtzigt is suggesting here, I would take great risks with the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u167	The reason for asking this question is that Minister Van der Steur said in the Chamber last year that no request had been made. It seems that request has been made. I'm very happy about that. But I did not want to discuss the question: is it true what was said there? I wanted to discuss the fact that the Prime Minister himself says that all countries are cooperating well. It is not at all up to the Prime Minister, me or anyone else in this Chamber to assess what has happened. That's up to the D.A. and the investigators. If they publicly state that these radar data are not yet available after two and three quarters of a year of questions, when we have heard in the hearing in the Chamber that they are normally available within a week, then the question is legitimate whether the government believes that this cooperation is being given or not? Then that question comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u168	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u169	We really talk like two deaf people past each other, Mr. Omtzigt. We have been talking about this issue for three years, and it will remain so for a long time to come. If I were to answer Mr Omtzigt's question at the outset, I would be giving a political opinion on whether Russia, Ukraine or anyone is cooperating or not. I am not saying that they do cooperate or that they do not cooperate; I am saying just one thing: the Joint Investigation Team in which the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office plays a central role, does the detection and prosecution for the Netherlands and for the entire group of grieving nations. The Dutch Government has said from the outset: as soon as we are asked to do anything in the direction of anyone at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office under that direction and under that instruction, we will do so. Then we will do so in the first instance; then we will do so in follow-up questions, etc. But we will never comment on it ourselves. We will not say that we find whether or not there is good cooperation, because then there will be a political fingerprint. Once again, if anyone else thinks that the Dutch government would be reluctant, what is being suggested here and there, because of the pleasant relations we want with Ukraine, Russia or any other country, then I say that this is zero point zero. This is the easiest thing this entire cabinet, which has experienced throughout the Netherlands and, first and foremost, the next of kin in the last ten years. Especially in the first place the next of kin. I have said it before: our suffering is not comparable to the suffering experienced by the next of kin. It would be a fundamental injustice and a wrong prioritisation if we allowed bilateral or international relations to play a far-reaching role in the question of whether we are doing everything possible to get the bottom line. But just to get that bottom stone up, we can only work on instructions from, under direction from and at the request of the Public Prosecutor. Then there's personnel policy. We have been asked what actions are being taken to achieve a good human resources policy. I think this is an important point. It is also something that the cabinet very much realizes. There are fantastic people working for the government. I'm impressed with it every day, and I have to keep it that way. It is very important for the functioning of the Empire that we remain attractive as an employer, including for young people. Whether at the level of the doorman or at the level of the Director-General or Secretary-General, at all these levels you need good people. It's also an area I've been working on in an earlier life. It involves looking at the individual, at selection, training, flexible use of people in projects, career opportunities, mobility and modernising working conditions. We do this by having the ministries draw up multiannual staff plans. In 2018, another study will be carried out on the future labour market in the government, so that we can regularly make all the insights that arise from it part of the policy. This will undoubtedly also be taken further by a new cabinet, whoever is in it. The report on the dismissal costs of Economic Affairs was prepared in conjunction with Social Affairs. It's not an evaluation of the Work and Security Act. It is therefore not possible to draw any conclusions on that law. It is mainly about the old situation, the period 2015/2016 and it focuses on dismissal with mutual consent. So it doesn't give a picture of any other firing routes either. The review of the WWS is foreseen for 2020. As far as the Paris Climate Agreement is concerned, I have already been asked to respond to the statements made by US President Trump on what he intends to do. I have said that we are waiting to see what exactly the American Government is going to decide. For the moment, they are as-than-answers, but there are questions that I can answer in this debate. I see that Mrs Schouten first has a question about the cost of dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mrs. Schouten, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u171	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u172	I sensed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u173	Yeah, that's very good. The Prime Minister is now moving very quickly over the investigation carried out by EZ, not at the request of the Chamber. This has been done completely independently, where it is quite common for SZW to do so. Anyway, it's one cabinet and we'll just say it speaks with one mouth. Next, the cabinet puts the investigation to us, says "we are outgoing; we are not going to draw any conclusions." I think that is a bit weird and I want to know exactly what is behind it. Why are you going to investigate the cost of dismissal if you think it's a period that's not representative because it's too limited? However, the investigation does show that the cost of dismissal has increased, while this law had of course already entered into force in 2015 and 2016. What does the government intend to do with this investigation other than...................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u174	The latter seems complicated to me when you are investigating a period in which the WWS was not yet discussed to a large extent. Moreover, the research focuses only on dismissal with mutual consent. Economic Affairs does more research when it comes to the functioning of the Dutch economy. I mention the attractiveness to start businesses. I refer to the full functioning of the labour market. The right of dismissal is, of course, much more a responsibility of Social Affairs, but Economic Affairs is also very interested in this. It's not for nothing that it's been done in good coordination with Social Affairs. We are sending more reports to the Chamber at the moment, because of the slow formation, and we are not in a position to make a political response anymore. If that formation takes much longer, this cabinet will become more missionary. It is inevitable that we will find things again. Anyway, let's just assume it won't take unnecessarily long. We stick to the practice of not providing reports with a cabinet position at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u175	But we didn't ask for the report. It is the cabinet itself that came to the conclusion that such a report had to be drawn up. For who? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u176	Oh, but we do that a lot more often. We are not just asking for reports at the request of the Chamber. There are inter-departmental policy investigations. There's a lot of policy work. The Scientific Council for Government Policy is doing a brilliant job from General Affairs for a state-wide responsibility. No, it's not like we're a political office of the Chamber. The government also conducts its own investigations, but we usually add a policy response. Mrs Schouten is right that we do not do this now, because we do not think that is right from the point of view of the missionary role. But that can change, of course, if it's going to take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u177	I think this is a very special play. We never asked for this information. The cabinet itself has decided to conduct this investigation. Then it sends it to the Chamber and says: we don't like the rest of it. But there is a conclusion in the report, namely that the cost of dismissal has increased during that period. Does the Cabinet share that conclusion? Well, I guess I'll just ask that as the only question. That seems pretty factual to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u178	These costs are 2% higher. The impression in the media that this would be meant by Henk Kamp to show "haha, the Wwz does not work" cannot be true, because only in part of the period the Wwz functioned. Moreover, the investigation is about dismissal with mutual consent. It's really looking through a straw at the whole issue. I see Mrs Schouten is not convinced. I'm sorry, because I usually manage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u179	In conclusion, I think it is a special procedure. I cannot escape the impression that it has served a different purpose than simply to give the Chamber some insight into the development of dismissal costs. Anyway, that conclusion is on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u180	The latter is true: we share this with the Chamber, because of course we always try to share our beneficial research work with the Chamber, if only because Mrs Schouten says otherwise: you are holding things back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u181	The report begins with the remark that dismissal by mutual consent concerns 70% of redundancies in the Netherlands. That's not looking through a straw, that's looking at the biggest common denominator in dismissal law. Has this investigation only been carried out by the Minister or has the cabinet decided in advance that this investigation would be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u182	The Ministry of Economic Affairs regularly conducts research on the basis of a broader responsibility for the functioning of our economy, the appeal of the Netherlands for investment and for business start-ups, in short, various aspects of our economy. Of course, the functioning of the labour market is an aspect of this. If that's investigated, they'll coordinate it with Social Affairs. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u183	The investigation has therefore been coordinated with Minister Asscher of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u184	I never mention the precise internal cabinet procedures, but every investigation that goes to the Chamber takes place under the responsibility of the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u185	Finally, Mr Omtzigt, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u186	I see the Minister of Finance looking very economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u187	He tends to look economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u188	He looks on his screen, and he sees things of concern. The windows open in Brussels. That's a reason for us to look cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u189	Oh, it's about Brussels. Well, then he must look very economical. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u190	The windows open in Brussels. And then we always look cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u191	If they draw up a budget there, we will be a long way further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u193	Was this investigation approved by the Cabinet before it was sent to the Chamber or did the Minister of EZ send it to the Chamber? So is this a common position of all 13 ministers in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u194	First of all, every minister who sends a piece to the Chamber does so on behalf of the entire cabinet. I'm not gonna tire the Chamber with the precise internal cabinet procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u195	The Prime Minister spoke about the staff policy of the government in general and made a number of important comments. I have here the most recent Labour Market forecast of the UWV in front of me. This shows that in 2016 there were 280,000 unemployed in the age group from 45 to 64 years. I know that the tax authorities may have to leave a little earlier, but I would like to make a general request to give priority to the group of 45-year-olds to 65-year-olds, a group in which unemployment is twice as high as in the group under 45. We have all seen the Radar programme, in which it became clear that for new vacancies only 3% of the 50-plussers will come into play. For new jobs, two out of three young people have a job within one year but only one out of three older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u196	Listen, I'll be the first to say: make sure you have a good mix of young and old. If you hire someone over 50 years of age, there are a number of advantages. Those people aren't gonna take root anymore, because in ten to fifteen years they're gonna retire. They take a lot of experience and may be able to train young people. They are no longer afraid of the first setback, because they have already experienced a lot. We sometimes hire people from 75 years of age; I've just been talking to someone for two hours. Today is my day of 75-year-olds...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u197	I'm one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u198	Volunteering. But the bike will be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u199	It is quite shocking that, especially in the 55-year-olds to 65-year-olds, unemployment last year was 8.6 years lower than in the 45-year-olds. Those people wouldn't have a WW benefit. I also have numbers for the welfare. In the group between 45 and 65 years of age, 235.000 people are on welfare. Merged from that group of 45-year-olds to 65-year-olds, almost half a million are in the WW or in the assistance. I find that shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u200	Agreed. Moreover, we could make a joint appeal to employers and workers to look very closely at all kinds of provisions in collective agreements and how their modernisation can contribute to the position of older people in the labour market. However, now, of course, I am in an extremely sensitive area, because collective agreements are not yours, nor mine, but employers' and employees'. However, I do not rule out the fact that there are still aspects of this that contribute in time to strengthening the position of older people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u201	But it's a big cost for the government if half a million people get WW or assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u202	Frankly, I find the loss of knowledge and inspiration and the loss of the contributions these people can make to this beautiful country far worse than the cost. Especially from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u203	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u204	At this point, I was finishing up. There are still a few short points. We have been asked about CO emissions, the climate agreement and Paris. I do not think that this will require an additional monitor, because we are getting all the national progress of the targets. It will be released in October in the National Energy Exploratory. On ETS and a minimum price of CO, a very interesting tree is in itself almost literally to be set up. Industry emissions are, of course, controlled at EU level. It is said that some parties want to build fences on the land; let us be careful not to build fences in the air too. However, the whole ETS system simply does not work well, we can be clear about that. We recently agreed in Europe to buy in principle excess CO rights from the market from 2024. This is a European agreement leading to a structural strengthening of the ETS. Of course, you can look at other policy instruments, such as national minimum prices, but it seems to me that you will always have to look at them in the light of the leaking waterbed effects. As a result, there is still a question about the energy agreement. In October last year, Henk Kamp, the Minister for Economic Affairs, sent the evaluation to the Chamber. This shows that the energy agreement has contributed to accelerating the energy transition and that results have been achieved that would not have been achieved or would have been achieved without that agreement. In December 2016, the same minister sent the progress report to the Chamber in which all parties expressed the confidence that, on the basis of a number of additional measures, all the objectives of the agreement were within reach. The question is, of course, whether you can divide that into the kind of instrument. That's terribly complicated. If one thing can be derived from the energy agreement, it is that a tailor-made approach by sector is desirable to achieve energy savings. Look at the office market. An obligation may work well there. At the same time, the Minister for Economic Affairs recently made hard voluntary agreements with energy-intensive companies about energy savings by these companies. In other words, you should not only look very closely at the instrument, but also at the context of the sector and the target group in which it is applied. As far as the question of slaughter is concerned, I have prepared myself for everything, but I would like to refer it to you. There is no doubt that there are also responsible debates with all ministers individually. That could just be true. That's right, I hear. Perhaps that question can be asked again. This is an area which I know all about, but which may not quite fit into the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u205	Of course, it fits into the context of this debate. The question that has been asked is actually about the following. There are all sorts of reports that indicate that a certain movement should not be made in this case, it is about the amount of animals, but that aside from.... and that growth is undesirable. We can see that there is growth. How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u206	Then I'm gonna spout my knowledge here anyway. First of all, of course, in a general sense, this cabinet is aiming for a livestock farm with broad support in society, in which good money is made by farmers and in which we ensure that the environment does not suffer, even more so, that there is also a lot of support in rural areas. Many steps have been taken in this direction. Take, for example, the emission reduction under the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the reduction of antibiotic use in intensive livestock farming and the support of pig farming plans to achieve vitalisation. Think also of the ESC opinion on the sustainability of intensive livestock farming. The number of animals kept in the Netherlands is broadly stable, due to the system of production rights for pigs and poultry. The policy of this cabinet is now aimed at reducing the export of animals for slaughter. This aims to reduce the transport of live animals in the context of animal welfare. This means that there are also more massacres in the Netherlands. In 2017 we see a peak in the slaughter of cattle. This is due to the need for Mr Van Raan to know that in order to reduce the production of manure from dairy cows, the Netherlands will come under the phosphate production ceiling of the European Nitrate Directive. If Mr Van Raan asks one more question now, I really have no answer, because then I am through all my knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u207	You've already said everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u208	Thank you for the answer, Minister. I hear you saying that farmers must earn well. So does the Party for Animals. But that is not the case at all. Seven farmers stop a day. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u209	We are, of course, constantly looking at the balance between rural areas, environment, production and impact on the environment in this sector. Sometimes, of course, there is also an increase in scale. We are also dealing with economic conditions in the various sectors, such as milk prices and other prices. So you can't give a general response to that. Which brings me to the question of whether the place where you were born should make up for the odds you get. The answer is no. It shouldn't matter. Of course, Mrs Leijten would like to know more about this. She's getting up. I agree with her that every talent must flourish. That's what this cabinet stands for. I think that's what we all stand for. This is covered by the "Open Doors" section. Of course, it would be idiotic if your origins mattered to your future, if your faith mattered to what you could achieve in this country, or if the place where your cradle stood would matter to the odds you get. We're making a lot of money for this, too. The Secretary of State and Minister of OCW presented the comprehensive approach to equal opportunities in autumn 2016. 25 million is earmarked for this in 2017, which amounts to 32 million in 2018. In doing so, we are committed to promoting education, smooth transitions and strong networks. This is on top of the existing educational disadvantage policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u210	Are you almost done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u211	Let's see. Yeah, if no one jumps up angry, I'm done, but then I leave one or two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u212	The Minister of Finance said on Monday that he was busy saving the country. He didn't just do that, because he says all the time: we were busy saving the country. How does the Prime Minister view the list of four points I gave? If you save a country, don't you have to give the youth of today, the generation that we all think is going to do it? A chance at a place to live? Fuck you! There's a shortage of homes, including six years of Rutte. Chance of good psychological support if you need it? Fuck you! You get a place on a waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u213	I think you have already listed this, Mrs Leijten. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u214	Yes, but the Prime Minister is only concerned here with education policy, whereas it has been found that it is no longer the emancipation engine it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u215	Eventually, there's only one emancipation engine. Those are jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u216	That was the fourth point I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u217	Oh, sorry. I thought, "I'm gonna answer."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u218	You know, I don't count myself among the young anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u219	No, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u220	...but I have peers who have never had a permanent contract. That does something to you. You can laugh away and you can do fun about that, but they're just people with higher education who come from HBO, but who fly out every time you have to. You can't laugh at that! And then say you saved the country? I think it's a little grotesque.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mrs. Leijten, it's all sour again. Let me tell you how I look at it, because I really disagree with you. The best way to advance people in a country, to bring their talents to full bloom, to make them an example for others and to get the younger generation involved is to ensure that people get to work. This cabinet has been fighting a serious financial crisis since day one, which subsequently developed into a major economic crisis. That has been extremely complex. Unemployment was rising at the beginning and deficits were rising. We're right where we are now. We have a country that has more jobs than ever in our history, with health care among the best in the world, with an education system that is among the best in the world and with youth unemployment among the lowest in the world. It also allows people to get to work. In my conversations with people from migrant groups or with people who are already for the third or fourth generation in the Netherlands, they have long since stopped being a migrant, but they still have parents or grandparents who have come here as a guest worker. They say: "All wonderful, but for us, only one thing is really crucial: that we can work with our talents. Whether that is at the level of a professional, at the level of the professor, at the level of the doorman or at the level of the director, the point is that those jobs are there." If the Socialist Party had taken over power in 2010, I would have liked to have seen what was going on with that job engine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u222	The Rutte cabinet destroyed 365,000 jobs. I've seen it in care. I saw them go. The fact that there is now a shortage of care shows how short-sighted that policy has been. But I asked about the generation that is growing up now. They don't have a view of a house, because there aren't enough homes. They don't have a view of a job, because there are no fixed contracts offered. If you're in psychiatric trouble, you'll be on a waiting list. And in education, the primary school teachers, the masters and the teachers say, "We can't take it anymore." Then you can't say "tralala," we saved the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u223	And your question is? Mr President, listen, this is such an idiotic enlargement of where the Netherlands is at the moment! There is no one, anywhere in the world, who is now looking at the Netherlands and will recognize in the distance what Mrs Leijten is saying here. He will say, "What country do you live in, that you see all this?" Yes, of course there are problems. There are problems in all kinds of sectors. My ambition now, as I have often said in the campaign, is to make sure that we all feel that the country is stronger in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u224	Really, finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u225	Can I finish the answer or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u226	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u227	First of all, it means continuing to increase employment. This is the only way to ensure sufficient revenue, including for the government, to reduce the burden on the middle class in the country while at the same time investing in matters such as tackling the environmental problems and the problems that remain in education and health care. That's the only route. There's a lot of laughs about the VVD. The VVD says: after we haven't cut back on nursing care in recent years, we want to pay extra money for that. To a lesser extent, other parties have also focused on this. Just now that there's room, we need to make that happen in the years to come. I am not saying that there are no problems, but Mrs Leijten presents here a picture of a country that was a kind of GDR in 1989. No one in the world knows that, I swear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u228	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u229	No, I would point out that the problems have not been solved, but have been deepened and that the gap that lies in our country has not been closed, but has grown further. The Prime Minister can say that no one looks to the Netherlands from abroad as if there were problems, but stay in the Netherlands more often. Go live in those families that have been living in poverty for more than two years and cannot get out of it. That's not solved. There may be more permanent jobs now, but there are still a lot less percentage points than all these flexflut contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u230	You have made your point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u231	So it's showing off feathers you're not coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u232	On the contrary, I have spent a number of years working very intensively on the problem of poverty when I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs and had this problem in my portfolio. At that time I used the note The other side of the Netherlands from 1995 by Ad Melkert, who has always made a great impression on me, as a starting point for my policy. You have to make sure that people don't spend an unnecessary amount of time in trouble. Mrs Leijten refers to assistance. Our assistance is one of the highest in the world. After Sweden, we are number two in the world, so there is no problem. There is a problem with people who are in debt. There is also a problem with people who are on welfare and who are not getting to work. We said at that time that percentage is now slightly lower than that of the people in welfare, even without physical or mental complaints: you are no longer working, you are phase 4. We said that because people hadn't gotten to work in a very long time. One of the major changes we have made is that we do not look at how long someone is unemployed, but at the opportunities that someone does have. We don't think it's social to keep people locked up in benefits for an endless period of time, if that's not necessarily necessary. That is why I keep saying that work is the only way to recover the problems that still exist, both individually and collectively. That is the only route that gives us the funds to give some room for the middle class, who has paid for the crisis in recent years, by reducing the burden and, at the same time, making additional investments in the sectors that Mrs Leijten also considers important. If you don't, and you really stick to the classic thinking of a big government, you run the risk that that will be at the expense of your employment. Then it's at the expense of your prosperity and you can't help people, really. Mrs Leijten does so with the best of intentions, but the road to hell is paved with those intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u233	Thank you. No, Mrs. Leijten. You have a second term. Then you can really say anything you want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u234	We have a first deadline in which we ask questions and submit things to these two rulers to get answers, to which we return in the second term. Three of my questions have not been dealt with, including the trade surplus. If you deport your trade surplus, which is actually debt in other countries and do not invest in your own economy, that is double poverty. The Minister of Finance has not answered that question, but perhaps the Prime Minister can answer this. Would it not be very good to comply with the EU's budgetary rules and invest our trade surplus in the Netherlands, which will strengthen our internal economy and ultimately increase our need for products from southern Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u235	Are there any other questions that haven't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u236	Oh, yeah. I have asked what we think of the deepening of European Monetary Union, especially in relation to the German central bank, which has said that it values the European banks. I also asked about the AWBZ premium, which is being spent far less. The Minister of Finance says that all this will come back in the second term. I didn't ask for nothing, did I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u237	We've been answering for two and a half hours now, so I think we're making a serious effort. In fact, I think it would be wise for these questions to come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u238	Good. Then you will receive an answer in the second term, Mrs Leijten. I thank the Minister and the Prime Minister. I understand that there is indeed a need for a second deadline. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u239	Mr. Chairman. I don't need that long. I don't have any motions either. I would like to say that I am sorry that no lessons have been learned from the policy pursued by this cabinet over the past four or five years. As Bas Jacobs said, all the mistakes made in the previous financial crisis have now been made again. I hold my heart when we face the next financial crisis. We saw a bright spot in the interview "It has already been mentioned a few times in Het Financieele Dagblad with the Minister of Finance in which he said it was brave of the Kunduz parties, but not good to cut 9 billion and increase burdens in a deep recession. That sounded a little bit like: I never would have done that. In my view, however, that is the question to the Minister of Finance, who would do it again tomorrow or at least embrace it. What I also find worrying is that we account for EUR 224 billion in expenditure on legality, but we have too little insight into the sense, economy and care of all these billions. The whole room agrees that things have to be different. The cabinet agrees on that, too. The question for the future, however, is who is in charge here? Who is going to ensure that the objectives are known by policy measure, that the price is set that can be paid for them and that these goals are achieved? So far I've heard a lot of wishful thinking. Many parties say that things have to be different, including the General Court, but nobody has the direction. My question to the Minister of Finance is who will be directing this responsibility, efficiency and effectiveness? Each euro must be spent meaningfully. The taxpayer is now entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u240	Mr. Chairman. At least I have a motion on information security. The Minister of Finance has already said a lot about it. This was mainly about implementing the existing agreements. We also think it is important to look at the future, how future-proof we are. What is the role of the Minister in this? Does he have enough coordination? Does he have any power of perseverance when he sees things that aren't right? That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the General Court finds nine deficiencies in information security in eight ministries and the Lower House itself;]] [[whereas citizens and businesses should simply be able to assume that their data is safe with the public authorities;]] [[Considering the increasing number of cyber attacks, including in public administrations;]] [[whereas it is therefore important to keep things in order, but information security in the public administration should also be future-proof;]] [[Calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to address the deficiencies in information security by the end of 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to explore what is needed for good future security of information among governments and associated institutions, in the area of the organisation, role and mandate of the coordinating minister, staff, measures, but also to update the framework of agreements on the basis of developments and threats, and to inform the House of Representatives before the end of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u241	One more point on this. The Minister has already indicated that the new agreements will be reviewed anyway. However, the Minister for the Interior states that he wants to better meet the needs of the departments. You can always look at that, but as far as we are concerned, the information must be safe and the citizens of the country must be able to rely on it. I have one final point. The Minister said that there will be a plan of action for staff this year. Maybe the Minister could be a little more specific about that. We have asked the question to what extent the Top Income Standards Act is an obstacle to, for example, attracting ICT expertise. We'd like this to be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u242	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the government's answers. It is good to have this debate once a year. I sincerely hope that next year there will be a missionary government here. I would also like to say, as a financial spokesman, that the group chairmen are finally going to do this debate, because that was always the intention of the debate on responsibility. Because accountability is extremely important for a government. There is sometimes some laughing about this, but we tax almost half of the income of the whole of the Netherlands and at the end of the year we look carefully at whether it has been spent in a decent, legitimate and efficient way, is of little priority. We very much like to talk about every new plan here, but to see if we have implemented what we thought we were doing and why we are adjusting during the year, because that is also very normal, is at least as important. Anyway, unlike the debate on Prince's Day, we will not see this debate in the news. That is, because of that aspect, a pity. I am very curious to hear the answer about the Tax Administration and Article 49xx ARAR and whether the customs officers and people of the FIOD are really going to be found internally. That can also be written, but there is a real tension there. I also spoke with the General Court of Auditors about the fact that they had actually written something different than they just exchanged in the debate. I am very curious to hear the written statement that will follow next week on the date of 1 July. I am very pleased that the government will do everything in its power around MH17. I note, however, that normally radar data are available within days, that we are now almost three years away, and that a country that said after four days has the radar data has not yet handed it over. Then there is one problem, because those radars were recorded by a state radar in another country. I have deliberately co-signed the motion of the VVD and of the Christian Union on information security. We really shouldn't wait for another huge leak, because the government has a lot of sensitive data. The same applies to the House of Representatives. I made a pretty good point about the models. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that models can be very useful tools, but that outstripped use tends to obscure reality;]] [[calls on the Bureau of the Chamber to present a proposal, together with scientists, the General Court and other stakeholders, to reflect critically on the current use of models and how to improve their use, in order to make the effects of political choices clearer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u243	I find the motion strange, I'm just saying honestly. The point is that a model is a fact. I'll take a CPB model. That's empirically substantiated. The Minister of Finance also said there's empirie underneath. You put something in there and something comes out. The question is, what do you do with that as a politician? I'd say don't stare blind, because some things don't model in numbers and models. Some things have no price in economic science, such as environmental pollution. Then it's really weird to ask the Bureau to look at models now, isn't it? In my view, the question is how Mr Omtzigt himself wants to deal with the models politically, as I have to ask him and his colleagues. But what does Mr Omtzig want with this motion that we are going to change the models of the CPB here in the Chamber? That's weird, isn't it? And there's only one person who can do something about the application of models: each MP decides how to use them. So in all honesty, I find this a very strange motion. It may be that the models do not have the outcome that corresponds to Mr Omtzig's ideological desire, but this... Or you think that the CPB models are not right, Mr Omtzig should say that; I do not agree with that or you think that parties and politicians should deal with them differently. But that seems to me to be an appeal to all of us, not something that fits in with a chamber motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u244	I would like to say two things about this. The first is that I spoke qualitatively about the models of administrative burden relief. The way in which they have been applied is really wrong. I did not talk so much about the CPB models, but about how we deal with them politically. That is precisely why I am not putting the motion to the government, but to the Chamber itself, so that we have a discussion about it. For I notice in many debates, including this debate, that people come up with one outcome and then quite consciously say'so we are better', and that in such a debate we are unable to rely on the reality behind it. I want to see how we can look at that. I'm doing that very consciously, not just before the election. I just want to see how we can better deal with this model reality. I think it's a call to ourselves, too. That is why it has been formulated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u245	If the point in these figures is the administrative burden, then you have to table a specific motion. I think this is really weird. The people who decide how we handle a model are us. A call to the Bureau to propose how I am supposed to deal with model outcomes as a Member of Parliament does not fit my responsibility as a Member of Parliament at all. I also consider Mr Omtzigt to be high enough to make his own assessment. With all due respect, I don't need the Bureau to decide how individual MPs should do their job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u246	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u247	I am not going to prescribe how Mr Van Weyenberg should do his job. And even if I did, it wouldn't have much effect. In this respect, I have very few illusions, but this is about how this debate and other debates dealt with model reality and how political reality and complexity were introduced through the models. I gave the example of that deduction. I have consciously taken an example of a period in which we were half in the government, so that it does not become a sort of thing in the sense of: this is something that has arisen over the last two years. I did that very consciously. But this is something we need to reflect on. In doing so, I wanted to show that the complexity we are introducing has to do with the fact that we are using models. I have asked a number of sharp questions, for example: is there one country in the world where, if you have to support more people, you have to pay more taxes on the same money? That is a model because we are looking at it modelly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u248	I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u249	...and not in any other way. Is there one country in the world that not only has a progressive tax, but also income-dependent tax rebates, surcharges, cashable tax rebates and non-cashable tax rebates? We have the greatest instruments in the world, precisely because we are working on models and not on reality! I'd like to start that discussion sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u250	But not in second term, because this is a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u251	Well, look, the nasty thing is that he doesn't want to get into the discussion, so I don't have anything else to do with her here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u252	No, but okay. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u253	I want to start the debate here. It is quite a challenge to call upon the Bureau to make a proposal on how we deal with models. Models are there, and there's a conclusion to that. Mr Omtzigt disagreed with a number of policy measures. Apparently, he did not succeed in convincing a majority of the Chamber. Then I think a little more reflection on how he himself can be more persuasive. I am always open to this than a debate on models through the Bureau. I think it's a weird motion. Mr Omtzig's examples confirm that he has a different policy view. I believe that this debate belongs here in this Chamber and not in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u254	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u255	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u256	You'll have the opportunity in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u257	Well, no, I'm the speaker here; that's very simple. If you give the floor for an interruption, I would like to be able to answer that. My answer to Mr Van Weyenberg is that the models are indeed the subject of discussion. If he's going to deny that, only the length of his argument is proof that he is. And yes, there are indeed political choices behind it; that is absolutely fine. But do not say that we have a simple tax system in the Netherlands. Why do we have such a complicated tax system? Because everyone dives into the model and thinks: yes, but if we still... And then there comes an income-dependent tax discount in the labor discount...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u258	And the Presidium has to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u259	No, it could suggest a discussion, Mr. Chairman. That was the second misconception, but I can still understand it because I did not give the text to Mr Van Weyenberg in advance. It did not say that the Bureau should make a proposal, but that it should consider how to enter this discussion internally. I do not want to put you in this discussion between me and Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u260	No, I'm not gonna try that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u261	I get that that can't be the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u262	I have a question for clarification on Mr Omtzigt's motion. We all know from the results in the Plan Bureau's report that whatever you put in it comes out, too. Will Mr Omtzig also ask us to take a look at whether the input, the assumptions contained in such a model and still being added or modified will also be part of that research? When you talk about a model reality, that seems to me to be a very important aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u263	You thought, with this remark, I would make the discussion a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u264	We are already going to have the discussion here, which shows how important this discussion is. It wouldn't be the first question I add, but you can add it to it. The discussion about how we deal with it should be conducted internally. I do not see why I have given examples of why we are only taking certain measures on the basis of models at the moment, avoiding the underlying political questions. Just think of LIV, because you'll see what happens with it at the end of the year. That could never have been the intention of the models. So I do not agree with Mr Van Raan's comment that the models should be removed, even if this is perhaps a little too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u265	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u266	Then I'll draw him out again. I do not agree that you could do without models, even though he did not say so at all, but better use of them is possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u267	Mr. Chairman. In order to reassure the Bureau, I do not think that the last motion will make it, given the discussion. I would like to thank the cabinet for the comprehensive answer to the generic and specific questions. I swallow my joke about small talk and meatluck anyway. They had some difficulties in answering them, but I thought it was a lot about animals on meatloaf, given the broad public issues. I was talking about the ICT. That is an important theme. I have tabled Mrs De Vries' motion. There is still more to be done, but I have heard the reply from the cabinet and we will return to the next budget. I do have a motion with Mrs Schouten on another main issue that I have put down. If you make a mistake once and you are dealing with different instances, you are sometimes punished very harshly and you can get into trouble. In fact, we should all avoid this by adopting an approach based more on trust in people than on the mistrust that people are always doing it wrong. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas public services for many people are difficult to understand and a mistake has been made quickly;]] [[whereas people can sometimes get into serious trouble due to an error or a slightly late reaction;]] [[Whereas fines and penalties are intended for people who commit fraud or are deliberately negligent;]] [[calls on the government to identify the relatively high level of fines and post-payment public administrations and to consider whether a more service-based approach could reduce them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u268	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who has accompanied us in part of the debate, and the Minister for Finance for the answer. With regard to the clock, I would like to make a few very brief points. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments regarding the adjustments to the ARAR, in line with the Court's opinion on departure arrangements. I also welcome the commitment on information security, namely that we will have a response from the three ministries before the summer recess, which still had to chew a little longer to be convinced of the criticism and recommendations of the General Court on information security. I also welcome the commitment that in the autumn we will have a more comprehensive note on the role played by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister spoke in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen in dealing with the still too high level of unemployment among the elderly: this is not just about public policy. For example, as far as I am concerned, we are investing much more in the guidance of older jobseekers, but certainly also in provisions in collective agreements. I cannot fail to add that collective agreements are not the exclusive responsibility of the collective bargaining parties, as the Prime Minister said, but that these provisions are often also generally made binding by the cabinet today. I shall conclude with two specific points. It appealed to me that the Minister of Finance explained how he wanted to conduct the policy reviews and that we still need and can take a major step forward when it comes to recognising them. I have made a suggestion on the explanatory statements, on which I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, inter alia, the General Court and the Study Group on Budget Space advise to improve information on the effectiveness and efficiency of public policies;]] [[noting that the Cabinet agrees with this and, on the basis of the new Compatibility Act, prepares a hand-out to improve policy evaluation;]] [[Whereas, in order to obtain good policy information, it is necessary to determine how this information is obtained and how it is evaluated prior to the implementation of new policies;]] [[calls on the Government to include the idea of including in the Regulatory Instructions in the explanatory memorandum on legislative proposals and other proposals leading to a substantial policy change by default an evaluation paragraph explaining whether and how the policy will be evaluated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u269	Around the mandate of the Court of Auditors, I await the discussion on possible investigations. In addition, I do have a request. I would like to be able to draw some conclusions on Princess Day. That's a tight timeline. I therefore ask the Minister to do his utmost before the summer recess to come back to the Chamber and then see if a timetable can be followed so that we can reach a conclusion around Princess Day. There will also be an investigation. That will take time, so I ask the Minister to choose a timetable and to deal with it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I have one motion, about the Monitor Brede Prosperity, which will appear for the first time next year. I welcome the expectation, as expressed by the Minister of Finance, that the planning agencies would be sympathetic to a request to include capital ratios in the monitor. The Minister also said himself that capital relations and debt positions are more important than income relations. To underline this, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that next year the Monitor Brede Prosperity will be prepared for the first time;]] [[noting that asset and debt positions are an important indicator for the sense of security of life for people;]] [[noting that, despite data problems, it is common in the international context to use not only income ratios as indicators, but also power ratios;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the planning agencies to include asset ratios in the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u271	For the assessment I have one more question for Mr Snels. I find wealth relations interesting, but in the debate on Mr Piketty, I know that Mr Snels and his colleagues will always be very enthusiastic. We have seen that you have an extremely incomplete picture if you do not include pension assets. Does Mr Snels agree with me that it would be ideal if pension assets were also part of the indicator?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u272	I actually think that we should leave it to the planning agencies to draw up the indicators exactly. I can see that there are data problems as well. But it's not up to us to solve it. In my view, that would be a task for the planning agencies and would therefore have to decide for themselves how to implement it. The only thing I would like to do is to look not only at incomes, but also at the flow variables, as well as the capitals, the capital ratios. How the planning agencies should do exactly that, we leave that to the planning agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u273	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u274	I understand that's the point. I get the point, too. Eventually, the planning agencies have to tell us what's possible. My question was more substantive: does Mr Snels share my observation that you miss a lot of information if your pension assets are not included?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u275	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u276	Then my question is answered, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u277	Mr. Chairman. Draghi says his policy saved the economy. Bas Jacobs says that the austerity policy has stopped in recent years. ING has even said that the economy has grown less than could have. Anyway, if the sun is shining and you're sitting on a terrace, you tell me the sun is shining because of your policy. That's what's happening here. Two gentlemen who really want to sit in Europe to do something important, come to the Chamber to laugh away and point out that it is not such a problem. And look, they're doing that now. This is what I'm talking about. I hope this is broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u278	It's being broadcast live.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u279	There is money left and there are shortages in society. That's not a humor. That's serious. There is no prospect of spending money on children with disabilities in education, but we do not need to be in the budget to prevent the closure of special education schools. And then the AWBZ. Year in, year out it is said to the people: you pay a lot for the care. But since 2002, 156 billion have been lost, I repeat: 156 billion. These aren't my numbers; they're just the figures from the Ministry. And when you ask where that money has gone, "Was that concern really too expensive if you've been skimming 156 billion since 2002, or was it a story made, just to cut back?" If so, the answer is not available. Not only has that answer not only been available to the VWS committee for six years, but it has now been left out in this debate. I'd like to close with the following. The Prime Minister is naturally an optimist and has a lot of faith in people around him, but I advise him not to believe in fairy tales.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u280	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for the debate and for the comprehensive answer. It is not, of course, that we only talk about accountability on Accountability Day; we do so all year round. However, it is good to look at and learn from policies once a year, including with the opinion of the General Court. That is also a lesson from this debate. I have one unanswered question. It is about the fact that in half of the municipalities there was no approval from the accountant. I think that is quite a lot, even if you look at the fact that we have decentralised a lot of policies. Without wishing to enter into the autonomy of local authorities, I would like to ask: what can we do to improve this? I would like to hear what the Minister of Finance has to say about this. I'm filing one motion. It's not addressed to the cabinet. It's addressed to our own Bureau. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court regards the information security and management of the financial system at the Lower House as an imperfection;]] [[considers that it is very important that the information security and management of the financial system are in order in the Lower House;]] [[calls on the Bureau to identify what is necessary to put the information security and management of the financial system in order as soon as possible, to take the necessary measures to this end and to inform the Court of Justice of this by autumn 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u281	Okay, it's gonna be okay. If I could better submit this motion to the estimates, I would also like to hear it, but I have now been called upon to do so because the General Court explicitly pointed out it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u282	Yeah, but the Bureau did everything they could to get that. That's what happened. But if you wish to continue the motion now, I would be happy to discuss this during the estimation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u283	If you can go into it during the estimation, I think that is a good procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u284	Yeah, I'm fine. So the motion from you and Mr Omtzigt has been held?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u285	Yes, with the remark that the President will return to this at the time of the estimate. Then I will see if I can put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u286	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. Firstly, I would like to congratulate Mr Omtzigt. It is very nice that we share the analysis of the use of models. We may not share the conclusion, but we share the analysis. It's nice that the CDA is here now. Then there is my second point. I was excited by the Prime Minister, who once again sang the coolness of the country. He is very much right about that too. Is he aware that our way of life currently requires one and a half globes? And is he, like us, looking forward to solving this ecological deficit together by taking exciting opportunities? I come to my third point. The question in my first contribution was: how does the cabinet explain the dramatic growth in the number of animals slaughtered in relation to all the intentions to bring it down to clear proportions? In fact, the Prime Minister said: that is not true, because the number of animals has already been reduced. I'm asking the Prime Minister if what I'm saying about his analysis is true. So there is no dramatic growth at all? Has the number been reduced yet? I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas important advisory bodies of the government have been advocating the reduction of livestock for decades;]] [[Whereas the Dutch livestock developed in reverse proportion to that intention during the same period;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to reduce the Dutch livestock significantly, with concrete and manageable targets within a clear timeline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u288	The port of fewer animals is also included in the D66 election programme. This has been calculated by the Planning Bureau for the Environment, which I can recommend to the Party for Animals. I was wondering how the Party for Animals sees this motion in the light of the fact that we have a outgoing cabinet. I find the motion interesting and the hand-picking to govern is noted, but I try to point out her politically in terms of timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u289	I'm not sure I heard a question. You're asking how to indicate the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u290	I made the factually correct observation that there is a outgoing cabinet. We all don't know for how long. Are you now asking the Demissionary Cabinet? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u291	Yes. Thank you, I understand your question better now. In our view, the shrinkage of livestock is essential. And if the present cabinet makes a start on this, we obviously have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u292	Madam President. I would like to thank Minister Dijsselbloem and the Prime Minister, in that order, for their answers. I have heard the Minister's willingness to discuss the concept of prosperity in the second term. I had asked whether the importance of carers, volunteers, nanny's and grandpa's should not be taken into account in that concept of prosperity. This has not been measured in the existing definition of the national product. I already added: if these babysitting machines and grandpas throw down the axe for a few weeks, the Netherlands is completely silent. It seems to me right that the Minister should think about this and perhaps respond to it. I would also like to mention a second point. I called it a quarter of a million people between 45 and 65 in the WW. There's also a quarter of a million in aid. Those numbers are rising all the time. I pointed out the financial importance, but I agree with the Prime Minister that the human tragedy behind this is actually much more important. I have three kids around that age myself. They are happy at work, but I know many who are around 45 years old and have little idea of a good future. From the fact that they have to apply endlessly, never get an answer and really have no chance in the labour market, the Prime Minister, even though he is outgoing, must be awake day and night. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2016 EUR 2.4 billion was spent on appropriate education;]] [[noting that untrustworthy registration does not make it clear how many pupils have received additional support in the context of appropriate education;]] [[Whereas the new system of appropriate education should have provided a better understanding of policy outcomes;]] [[Whereas planned studies on the effectiveness and effectiveness of appropriate education will only be completed between 2018 and 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up appropriate investigations into the effectiveness and effectiveness of the appropriate education system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Auditors concludes that the transmission of current targets will lead to a contraction of 9 000 FTE officials out of a total of 109 000;]] [[noting that staff shortages and information bottlenecks are a common thread through the findings of the General Court;]] [[Whereas the Minister claims not to recognize himself in the number of 9 000 fte mentioned;]] [[calls on the government to make clear which part of the current targets will fall after 2016 and to divide them into the different parts of the state service,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for adequate accountability and information to municipalities and the House of Representatives on the social domain under the Municipal Law;]] [[Whereas, according to the General Court, this is not enough;]] [[Considering that the General Court recommends developing uniform concepts, definitions and measurement data in 2017 in order to better understand the results of decentralisation in the social domain at municipal level from 2018 onwards;]] [[calls on the Government to follow this recommendation in order to promote a comprehensive approach in public administration and to improve democratic control of this public expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u293	I think I remember the cabinet adopting this recommendation. I find it a little strange that we are also putting recommendations that are being adopted in motion. Perhaps Mr Van Rooijen would like to reflect on whether he would like to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u294	You mean the final motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u296	I don't have that on my retina. I will, of course, look at that again, but I have not heard that at all in the debate this afternoon. Nor have I received any response from the Minister to my contribution to the debate in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u297	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. It was a long ride. I have to get used to time management, but it's no different. I must also get a little used to the answer given by our Minister of Finance, namely from broad to specific. It's a long ride, though. In my first speech, I spoke about the results of the Study Group on Budget Space. I'm filing a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the General Court draws critical conclusions on public policy evaluation in its annual report for 2016;]] [[Considers that a thorough understanding of the results of policies is essential for the Court's audit function and citizens' confidence in the public administration;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an "quality understanding" operation in order to improve policy information and fully in line with the opinion of the Study Group on Budgets, with the following directions: a major role for independent parties, better sharing of knowledge between departments, greater flexibility and tailor-madeness in the deployment and application of instruments and the development of new approaches within existing instruments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u298	My second motion concerns personnel policy, which I also considered in my first contribution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the General Court notes that the strategic staff plans of ministries can be improved in different areas, including better understanding of qualitative aspects of human resources policy and of staff needs for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to embrace these recommendations and to ensure that strategic staff plans in these areas improve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u299	I see the Minister of Finance can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. I still need advice from our officials on Mr Van Rooijen's and Mr Azarkan's motions. They are so fine and perceptive that I must be advised. That goes for the other motions, of course, but I already have the advice of that. First, the outstanding questions. Mrs Leijten asked about the German central bank and, in this context, about the write-down of European banks. The message came from Deutsche Bank. That's not Germany's central bank. That is the largest European German bank, but it is a commercial bank. Deutsche Bank has investment analysts and they provide investment advice. Apparently, they have reduced investment advice on European banks. That's up to them. I'm not commenting on that. That is an investment advice from a private bank and I have no idea. What I do know is that we simply need to ensure that the old problems of European banks with a long history, such as the Italian banks or Deutsche Bank itself around all kinds of affairs, are dealt with properly. This will further strengthen confidence in the European banking sector. Mrs Leijten's second question, which has not yet been answered, was whether the Netherlands' trade surplus should not be invested in its own country. The trade surplus that the Netherlands has long had and which is indeed high is linked to a number of factors. Yes, it also has to do with the establishment of head offices in the Netherlands from companies that come to the right locational climate. It has to do with the port of Rotterdam and with large pension funds. Some of these factors will also change. If the ageing population continues to increase, part of the trade surplus and the savings surplus in our pension funds will also decrease. And yes, we invited the pension funds. You can see the willingness to invest more in the Netherlands, but it is not on our budget and we cannot decide that it should be invested in the Netherlands. We are talking about this with pension funds, but the Netherlands remains an open and free economy and the surplus is not in our treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u301	A brief response, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u302	Yesterday, an OECD report was mentioned stating that the Dutch pension funds' returns are among the top three in the world. That also indicates what a fantastic system we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u303	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u304	Does the Minister share the view of Minister Kamp that Dutch pension funds should invest more in the Netherlands? Let me explain the question. 2% he found far less than 30% among insurers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u305	No, Mr Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u306	... but 2% of very much is more than 30% of little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u307	Indeed, that trade surplus does not appear in the budget. But the moment you invest in your internal economy and you raise the demand, every analyst who looks at the Dutch economy says that the Netherlands Bank is not the last bank to invest in the pension funds and the head offices will automatically come to our country. You can make a policy on that. Saying that the trade surplus is happening to us and that we don't have to do anything with it is a bit of a crazy reaction from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u308	The questions must be really short. We've been debating all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u309	I would have liked this question to have been answered in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u310	If the answer is not clear, then there can really be a short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u311	Mr President, I asked for an exchange of views on this issue at first reading. If that is postponed until the second deadline, I would like to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u312	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mrs Leijten's presentation of my answer has nothing to do with my answer. That's the first thing. Secondly, yes, it is, with policies you can further stimulate investment. That's what the Cabinet does across the board. Investment in the Netherlands is therefore highly attracted. Consumer spending is also attracted. And yes, I agree with the Dutch Bank that in many Dutch sectors, not all of them, there is room for wage increases. This will further strengthen domestic demand. Along this line, we must try to sustain our economic growth. That growth is high at the moment; we are really above the expectations we have for the longer term for average growth for a country like the Netherlands. Along this line, we can further increase that potential growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u314	If you stop giving those tax breaks to those companies, it will fall by about two percentage points. If you make our country's wages rise, it will also fall by about two percentage points. Then we are within the European budget agreement. Then we strengthen our internal economy and we don't have that trade surplus. Is the government prepared to use such measures, which come from the Netherlands Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u315	That's a whole new question. The answer to that is no. Moreover, it is not the case that there are European budgetary agreements on the trade surplus or the current account surplus. That's not true. In all respects, we comply with the existing European budgetary agreements. I see Mrs Leijten shaking no. You know, I'll stop, I'll believe it, and I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u316	Does the Minister recognise that pension funds invest well in the Netherlands where possible, but that in order to achieve maximum returns, they need to invest primarily worldwide? Hence the low percentage in the Netherlands, which is still a lot of money. Does the Minister recognise that the return target is the primary objective of pension funds? Does the Minister recognise that comparisons in Europe mean that pension fund returns are significantly higher than those of insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u317	I know exactly where Mr Van Rooijen is going with this. That really is a new theme. This will lead to a discussion on the UFR for insurers and for pension funds. My response to his first question is: yes, it is true that pension funds are free to invest where they think that is wise. Yeah, they gotta spread that out. That is also their policy, so that their risks are spread. This does not necessarily happen because the yields in the Netherlands are lower than in other places, but especially in view of the spread. If the economy goes down here one day, their investment results will not go down completely. That's why they spread it over a large investment area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u318	Mr Van Rooijen, you did not say anything about this in your first term. This is about the 2016 Accountability debate. I ask you to confine yourself to the subject. Otherwise, the debates will become unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u319	The minister talked about pension funds...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u320	And then you thought, "Now I'm gonna bite."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u321	I was talking about returns and not the accounting rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u322	I ask the Minister to continue with the other questions and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u323	Thank you. Mrs Leijten asked another question about a tax rebate in relation to the AWBZ premium or the Wlz premium. I propose that we reply in writing, because it is apparently a discussion that she has been having for a very long time. Maybe we should just write it out nicely for once. Then she gets a letter from us explaining that relationship. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u324	You'll finish your sentence, I think. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u325	I went to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u326	Then Mrs Leijten has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u327	Now I get a letter explaining how it works. However, I am not waiting for that, because I have received such a thing many times already. We have already received, through the consistent questioning of the VWS budget and simply written questions from the Ministry, the figure of 156 billion taken from the AWB and Wlz premium before it reaches the fund and which is spent on tax rebates. It has all been explained in the Compatibility legislation. But what I want to know is what the tax rebate is spent on. That's my question. So I don't need a letter about what's going on or an explanation of how it works. I understand all that pretty well. I want to know where these tax rebates have gone in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u328	I honestly don't even understand the question. It is not the case that the AWBZ premium eliminates a very large amount in tax rebates, which then leads to the question of where those tax rebates went. You know the tax rebates there are. The AWBZ premium, which, by the way, has long ceased to exist, is simply spent on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u329	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u330	The Minister said earlier: "Whatever, I won't answer anymore, because Mrs Leijten doesn't know what she's talking about." In reply to this year's questions on the VWS budget, it was simply answered that AWBZ's contribution amounted to 27,147 billion, that the estimated revenue thus allocated to the Wlz fund amounted to 14,407 billion and that, in the calculation of the tax rebate, the tax rebate went to 12,740 billion. And this has been happening since 2002. It is said to our people that you pay 9,65% to care. But there's 7.2% going. And that goes to tax rebates. I do not even want to question the system; I will choose another time for that. But what I want to know is how those tax rebates were used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u331	I repeat what I have just said: I sincerely do not even understand the question. If people are listening to this debate, I think no one understands it anymore. But the structured way to do it is simply to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u332	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u333	I think it's really weird. These are just numbers, really, requested from the Ministry. From the Treasury Department. With the signature of this ruler, not his predecessor or his predecessor, but signed by Mr Dijsselbloem, Minister of Finance Dijsselbloem. And now he says he has no idea what it's about. Well, then we have a problem. Fine if it comes back to it in writing, but then arrange for it in the department so that it does not become an explanation note, is my request, but simply a justification of where the tax rebate went. So the tax rebate from the AWBZ premium and the Wlz premium has been 156 billion since 2002.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u334	If we manage to understand the question, we will also try to provide that answer. But I have the genuine impression that... no, let me not focus the matter further. Mr. Chairman. There is a question, I thought of Mr Van Dijck, but I forgot to write it down, who will direct the question of efficiency. I see that it was indeed Mr Van Dijck's. When it comes to the quality of accountability, the Minister of Finance is simply appealable. He is responsible not only for the quality of the annual reports but also for those of the policy reviews, the ibos and so on, i.e. the whole system of policy reviews. That does not mean that the Finance Minister will do all of them; trade departments will do it and that minister will be able to talk to them. But at the top level, the question of who is able to address the quality of accountability on this point, concerns the Minister of Finance. So I keep saying that we have already taken many steps in recent years, for example in the quality of policy reviews. The involvement of the Chamber has been greatly increased. I dare say that cooperation with the Court of Auditors has greatly improved. We have a new Compatibility Act. On the basis of the opinion of the study group, we are already taking steps. Hopefully, a new cabinet will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u335	Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u336	I would like to take this break anyway to just refer to a Chamberpiece number. In Room Document 34550-XVI, No. 11, in replying to questions 729 to 734, it was interpreted flawlessly by the Minister of Finance. Those answers come from his ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u337	I was with the plan of action on ICT made by the Minister of State. I explained that. Mrs de Vries asked whether attention was also being paid to whether the WNT was now pinching. I will explicitly refer the request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to that effect. Mr Omtzigt raised two issues concerning the Tax Administration. The braking system will have to comply with the framework conditions for legality laid down by the General Court. But we will also return to this in writing, as Mr Omtzigt suggested in his second term. This is about Article 49xx of the ARAR. I have answered the question on the second question. Mr Omtzigt also asked whether he could still get this on paper. That was the question of postponing the date of entry into force. Of this, Mr Omtzigt said: the Court of Auditors agrees with me. I find that complicated, because the Court of Auditors is no longer here and is not taking part in the debate and because I have not been able to understand with the Court of Auditors what would be wrong. If Mr Omtzigt were right and there was really false writing, then the Court of Auditors would really not have written it down that way. The Court of Auditors would have written that down in sharper terms. But on this point too, once we have understood ourselves once again with the Court of Auditors, we will let Mr Omtzigt know in writing what happened. I think it was Mr Van Weyenberg who asked about the examination of the budget of the General Court. He asked, "Is that gonna do it now, and do we know it on Prince's Day?" We are now in consultation with the Court of Auditors on the design of this resource-related task analysis. Then I will come back to the Chamber, because I would like her to play a role in the formal relations as well. But that analysis still has to be carried out. So none of that's gonna happen before Prince's Day. But as long as we have completed it before the budgets have all been dealt with in the autumn, we can also take account of the budgetary consequences. I will make that commitment to Mr Van Weyenberg. If we could produce that analysis in the autumn and if we could find that the Court of Auditors simply lacks resources, then I can imagine that I now rule over my grave that the Cabinet is taking the initiative on time on that point, or else the Chamber will force it to do so. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the role of volunteers, grandparents and grandmothers who provide shelter etc. The importance of volunteering, care and informal care is, of course, clear for the functioning of the economy. But later on, we're gonna go wider: it's unmistakable for bringing society together and keeping it. It is in the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor because there is also an indicator for volunteering. The Social and Cultural Planning Office has been looking at this for a long time. My understanding is that the indicator for volunteering will also be included in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Mrs Schouten had another answer to the question about the approval of the audit report, which is often lacking in municipalities, i.e. in 5% of the cases. What's going on out there? How will that percentage be reduced? The Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the Chamber of this in November last year. The letter also includes actions to significantly increase the number of approval declarations in the municipalities. For this purpose, the municipalities also draw up improvement plans. In the autumn of this year, the Minister of BZK will inform the Chamber again about the results of the reporting year 2016. This is a question of accountability at local level; that goes without saying. The specific problem of these municipalities has to do with benefits to health care institutions by the Social Insurance Bank on behalf of municipalities and with the choice to provide care, even if it was not certain whether all the conditions were met. It was deliberately chosen to ensure that people would mainly get their money and that there would be no problems for people who needed help and care. However, this leads to difficulties in obtaining the approval of the audit opinion afterwards. This problem needs to be addressed. They're working on it. You will receive a new report in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u338	Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u339	The motion in part No. 5 deals with information security in the public authorities. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion is policy support and what the motion requires can be included in the letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that I had already promised. This is an explication of that assignment to the cabinet. The motion in part No. 6 is addressed to the Bureau. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 7 asks the Cabinet to identify which government departments are subject to a relatively high level of fines and post-payment and so on. I also leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. We're prepared to carry out that inventory. I can imagine that the National Ombudsman will be involved in this. It has already reported on several occasions on what citizens are facing and how often they receive notices, fines and post-payment. That could be a way of getting that inventory done. It is then up to a new cabinet to consider what policy consequences this should have. Does this mean that you're imposing fines less often or later, or do you still want to be very strict? That is a political choice that a new cabinet will have to make with the Chamber. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 8 deals with the preparation of the hand-out. In the case of new policies and new legislative proposals, the evaluation should be better anchored in an evaluation section. I leave this to the Chamber, too. I consider this to be a policy support. As has already been said, we are going to include in the presentation how this should be done in future. This motion is intended to further enhance it. The motion in part No. 9 asks the cabinet to instruct the planning agencies. It can't be. I humbly consider Mr Snels to reformulate that. If the motion is then adopted, I will pass it on and bring it to the attention of the planning agencies. I want to respect their independence, but I think they are open to explicit wishes from the Chamber to include certain indicators. I can't give orders. If Mr Snels amends the motion, I will leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u340	One word needs to be changed: "command to" becomes "requests." Then the cabinet is asked to ask the planning agencies to include capital relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u341	Yes. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u342	You change the motion and send this around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u343	With this one word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u344	You're gonna have to do that, but you're gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u345	The motion in part No. 10 wasn't addressed to us and was apprehended. The motion in part No. 11 is about the livestock. In fact, it is said that you need to set targeted targets in order to reduce livestock significantly. That's not the direction of this cabinet. We are focusing on a healthy sector, a healthy environment and the safeguarding of public health. This sometimes leads to a reduction in livestock, as we now see from the point of view of the environment when reducing the dairy herd. Earlier, the same thing happened to the pig pile. We do not set an objective that there should be x million pigs in the Netherlands and no more than that. Whether a new cabinet does so is a question of whether the Party of Animals is going to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u346	It's Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u347	Oh, didn't I say that? This motion I would advise against the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u348	No, Mr Dijsselbloem did not say that, but perhaps he will learn again. You never know. The question was addressed to the Prime Minister. He makes it very clear that the number of animals slaughtered has been reduced. We don't think so. We are now in a yes-no situation. I understand that Mr Dijsselbloem accepts Mr Rutte's answer. The question to Mr Dijsselbloem is therefore whether, in his view, the number of animals slaughtered has fallen or increased. We say it's gone up and the Prime Minister says it's gone down. What does Mr Dijsselbloem say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u349	I always say the same thing as the Prime Minister. There is a unit of government policy. By the way, if you want to back that up, then we'll have the Secretary of State for Agriculture... is it for Agriculture? You see!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u350	It's never good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u351	A hereditary error, hereditary burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u352	We will ask the Secretary of State for Agriculture to back that up in a brief letter to you. That is, by the way, a very different question from that in the motion. The number of animals slaughtered is not the same as the size of the livestock. If you let all the animals run, you have zero slaughtered animals and your livestock is still the same size. This is what I'm learning at the Agricultural University of Wageningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u353	That would be a good idea, too. We'll support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u354	The motion in part No. 12 calls on the Government to speed up investigations into the effectiveness and effectiveness of the appropriate education system. It can't be. A number of actions have been set up to improve accountability around appropriate education. This motion also says, undefinedly, that it must be speeded up. The planned investigations will be completed between 2018 and 2020, which apparently cannot be accelerated. I must therefore discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u355	Does the Minister mean that the motion is not clear enough? What textual clarification does he want? If the research is not completed until 2020 and I ask for acceleration, it will be next year, for example. The Minister says that that is not possible, but I wonder if that is a good answer. Where there's a will, there's a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u356	I simply note that the motion does not say when to do so. It just says "accelerating." I was told from OCW that acceleration is not possible. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u357	I'd like to change "accelerating" into "in 2018, so next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u358	I'm gonna stay off the hook. There's a certain time frame. Those investigations are going to take place or are already taking place. I've been told there's no way to speed things up, so the motion won't make much sense. After all, the motion is designed to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u359	Not even if I import 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u360	Does that mean it's still a gear? We are now left in confusion. If it isn't acceleration, the motion doesn't make any sense. If it is an acceleration, I must say I must discourage her because there can be no acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u361	Mr Van Rooijen, you have until Tuesday to see what you want with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u362	I do not think this is a decisive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u363	It's not an effective motion either, so I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion in part No. 13 I wanted to answer more sympathetically. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. If the Chamber wishes what is mentioned in this motion, we will ask the Minister for State Service. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u364	It's for Living and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u365	The motion in part No. Mr Van Rooijen asked for the recommendation to be adopted to be consistent with the decentralisation of concepts, definitions and measurement data. We accepted that recommendation. I really think it's an unnecessary motion. I don't know if that qualification is still common in the Chamber. This one's already been taken over. In that sense, the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u366	I ask Mr Van Rooijen to withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u367	If, unlike the first motion, the Minister has already made it clear that he is carrying out this motion, I can withdraw it. I would like to repeat that I would have liked to have heard the first and the second answer more positively. I mean the first one. You will notice that I am a little upset about the answer he gave on that one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u368	Since the Van Rooijen motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u369	Well, I think we came out nicely after all. I still have the motion in part No. 15 by Mr Azarkan, in which he asked the government to adopt the opinion of the Study Group on Budgets. As sympathetic as that advice is to me, I think it is to a new cabinet. The Chamber could therefore say that it wants it to be taken over. However, asking this cabinet cannot, strictly speaking, be allowed to continue. It's a somewhat formal answer. The Room is not a missionary, we are. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to adopt study group opinions in advance. So I leave that judgment to her. Know, however, that we will not pick it up anymore. It's really up to a new cabinet to do that. The motion in part No. 16 on strategic staffing plans is policy support, so I leave the assessment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u370	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u371	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
