ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. This is their first budgetary treatment. So it's a little exciting. We have just agreed that we are going to have the debate as orderly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	To keep it orderly, the PVV starts today with the integration story. Here's how it goes. Mr. Chairman. Multicultural society is the sacred, untouchable endeavour of many people in the Netherlands. I am referring above all to politically correct people, to the left, to the left, to the left, to the left, to the Christian left and to the liberal Netherlands. But for more and more people, it turns into multicultural hell. For decades, masses of people have been brought to the Netherlands, especially from Islamic countries. Often it is also about people with lower levels of development; that is a fact. However, scholars believe that this collection of cultures will develop into a peaceful society with ultimately equality for all. My first question is: does the Minister believe that, and if so, on the basis of what data? Or is his upcoming policy just going to be an experiment? Because there is a lot of development in multicultural Netherlands. Let me give you examples from all over the country. I'll start with our capital, where an Islamic asylum seeker targeted a terrorist attack against a Jewish restaurant. The trial's going on today. An IS-terrorist could also intimidate his victims in peace and quiet in De Balie debate centre. Our capital is also a city from which many Jews have fled because of the advancing Islam. Amsterdam is the city where the mayor pursued a so-called deradicalisation policy, which should remain outside the democratic control of the city council. To give you an example: he wanted to spread fake news via YouTube to counter radicalisation. Before that, he hoisted a radical Muslim on the shield, a Bilal L., who then did the opposite, namely recruiting people for IS. Can the Minister provide full clarity on this drama? Or take The Hague, where alderman Baldewsingh of the PvdA has once again freed millions for neighborhood fathers, street coaches and you name it to keep the Schilderswijk and Transvaal quiet in the coming time. The Hague is also the city where Christmas decorations can no longer be hanged on the Hague Market, while every Friday the prayer call can be seen from various mosques. It is a town where in the old synagogue has been a Turkish mosque for years now. It is also a city that gets a Moroccan fountain in the center. Take Venlo and Blerick, with riots between Turks, or Maastricht, where last week a double murder took place with stabbing weapons and neck cuts by a Syrian who wanted to use a mosque to hide. Or Rotterdam, the second city of the Netherlands, where almost 2,500 asylum seekers got a home this year, often with priority over Dutch people. Almost 100% of those asylum seekers live on benefits. It is also the city where Turks occupied the Erasmus Bridge last year, where they have expressed their loyalty to Turkey by waving Turkish flags. In some neighbourhoods of that city there is hardly a butcher where normal, non-halal meat can be bought. It is also a city where you can hardly hear Dutch on the street and where the mayor's wife wears a head cloth. Or take Utrecht, where this week another elderly woman, sleeping in her house, got a ricocheting bullet in her leg during another Moroccan shooting. Utrecht is also the first city where a square is called the Moskeeplein. Mr. Chairman. This multicultural society develops in ever larger parts of the country, from Beerta to Terneuzen and from Den Helder to Landgraaf. Growing mosques, minarets, Islamic schools, but also benefit dependency, aggression against non-Muslims, and schools that release massively the day after the Ramadan. The whole country's gonna have to deal with this. And that's not all. Police officers have to ask their left-wing bosses every day whether they may have been racist or discriminatory in their work that day. Those bosses must also organize eiftars to please the Muslim population in their city. Servants kneeling in uniform in a mosque and photos of them appear on the internet. Is the Minister prepared to stop this development? More and more school classes visit mosques. Children learn to kneel there towards Mecca. As far as we are concerned, it is not more symbolic how the surrender in the Netherlands is and how naive, stupid, and in some cases even simply bad are the teachers or school boards that allow it. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Does he share that opinion? After 40 years of efforts in the field of emancipation and integration, education is delivering more and more young adults who turn away from the country they have trained, the Netherlands. Young girls who dared to approach life freely and for example did fashion education, say goodbye to fashion and put on a headscarf. That's what we saw in Nieuwsuur. They don't want to listen to music anymore, because that's not Islamic. "Salafism is their purpose," they said. We also saw that rappers have become role models and are pulling full rooms to get young Muslims in the strictest possible position. In addition, more and more young Turks are increasingly strict in the Islamic doctrine. This has recently been increasingly exposed by research. Turkish-Dutch high school teachers tell Trouw how they practice Islam more and more seriously. In The Hague, a beautiful school, the Aloysius College, even destroyed Islamization. Where the PVV has always advocated assimilation, the Netherlands made only a weak attempt at integration all these years. It's paid off a lot of money. We have ourselves trained a new vanguard of young Muslims in the Netherlands. They speak Dutch, they have followed an education, can express themselves well, often work and are also active in politics or in the board. This does indeed look like integration, but not using our Western culture as an established and leading culture, so the non-assimilation of large groups of immigrants from those countries and also their offspring, will soon explode not only in the face of the children and grandchildren of wishful thinking Netherlands, but also in the faces of many ordinary Dutch people. They live in more and more neighbourhoods in multicultural hell that this cabinet and also the previous one ignores and denies. The Dutch themselves are becoming increasingly and increasingly lost in the emptiness that has created the depilation of the past decades, but the establishment of the Islamic pillar is filling that void with increasingly forged values, a strong sense of community, a clear identity, an unbreakable cultural backbone and an urge for subjugation that is unprecedented, supported by subsidies and funding from abroad. Many here are also concerned about this: new mosques, influence, immigration and, of course, the threat of terror is also making a lot of noise. Soon there will be only one pillar left in the Netherlands, the Islamic one. Meanwhile, a generation of Dutch people growing up who are culturally orphaned wandering around the country, the children of the "that must be possible" generation. They have been taught that their culture is bad and that they have no identity, because white means slavery history and colonial past. They are taught that their culture would be inferior to other cultures. Their parents and teachers set no limits on them and the elite threw the borders open and abolished them. Of course, I am not acting against these children, absolutely not, but against their elitist educators, the political parties, civil society organisations and also churches and subsidised activists, who have made them defenseless, defenseless against that advancing Islam that has so much to hold on to for wandering creatures. A terrifying thought, Mr. Chairman, if you ask me. It's scary. Further mass immigration from Islamic countries will only exacerbate these problems. That is why the PVV advocates those close borders, for the remigration of those who want to adopt an Islamic lifestyle. This can be done in many places in the world. We also call for the expulsion of criminals with a double passport. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister tomorrow on this last piece. Then there's this cabinet's integration policy. First of all, I have a general question. Where does the strange idea come from that you can make masses of immigrants Dutch? Where's that credulity idea coming from? At a low level of immigration, that is almost impossible, let alone if you bring masses of people from Islamic countries here. I see an interruption coming. Of course, I would like to give it to Mr Özdil, but I still have one sentence and then this part is finished. Islam has come here to dominate, not to assimilate. How can it be that large groups of people can completely internalize our guiding values, norms, culture, history and customs, so that they become complete Dutch? I'm saying that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	I would like to ask Mr De Graaf to look around, because he will see a Moroccan-Dutch President of the Chamber. He sees a Moroccan-Dutch member of the Chamber. He sees a Turkish-Dutch member of the Chamber. He even sees someone from Texel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	All the way from Petten!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	My question to the PVV is: are the people I just mentioned integrated according to the PVV, or assimilated, or whatever you want to call it? And are these people Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	I would like to thank Mr Özdil for this question, because it provides a great deal of clarity and can also tighten things up. Of course there are a lot of Dutch people; of course there are Dutch people who are Dutch at all, but there are also a lot of people from outside. A small part of them, Mr Özdil, cites the examples of "assimilated" in such a way that they can function at top level, in the Lower House, in the Board of the Netherlands. It's possible. The question is whether people have intimated the western values that we have always advocated and made the Netherlands great: have they become their breasts, are they deeply felt and experienced inside? That makes you Dutch. Whether it is, everyone has to decide for themselves. What we do see is the problem with increasingly large groups, which continue to come to the Netherlands. It is already difficult to "make" real Dutch immigrants from small groups of immigrants. I say it this way because they will have to do it themselves; I reject the idea of making things work. You've seen for 40 years that this goes wrong in large groups. Then you should not continue to bring in even larger groups, because that is not going to work. That's the point I'm making here. That's the big problem. That's why integration doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	What I always regret about PVV's is that they make grotesque connections and propose non-solutions as so-called solutions. On the one hand, you can say that we are Dutch here and that we would have been assimilated, but I still haven't heard a definition of real assimilation. Yeah, feeling Dutch. At the same time, Mr De Graaf says that some Dutch people, when stealing a purse, must be deported. Maybe they also feel Dutch when they steal a purse. My question is whether you yourself are sorry that this inconsistency of the PVV in the field of integration has not only not been successful for more than ten years, but is also beginning to become a bit of a sleet, even among your supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	I'm glad the question is there, because I thought, when is he coming? But the question finally came. The inconsistency isn't there. I have just put it very clearly in my contribution, and I will do so again in a moment, also in response to Mr Özdil's first question, that it is a matter of someone inside, in his inner self, really feeling a Dutchman and being able to convey and literally live the western values. You cannot exercise scientific control over that; I would not even like that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yeah, sorry. I'm watching Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	I wanted to answer him. I didn't know if he was listening, because he was talking to his colleague. That's okay, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	I have said that it is already difficult to ensure that a small group assimilates in a country, but that is even more difficult if you keep bringing in large groups. The solutions the PVV brings are negative for GroenLinks. I understand that, because GroenLinks sees new voters in new groups. I understand that, but we have to make sure we stay the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, showed yesterday that the replacement of our population is continuing, this cabinet does not stop mass immigration and continues with the policy of non-viable integration. I just said something about it. I have read it in interviews and the coalition agreement, a perfected hammock policy in which asylum migrants are "cared" for two years, as it is called. So everything's gonna be taken care of for them. Everything is done for them. And that will make the Netherlands a great sweet raid for migrants. There is only one solution: anyone who has entered the Netherlands as an asylum seeker via a safe country must return to the last safe country. That's perfectly normal. That makes sense. Merkel's gonna figure it out. Is the Minister prepared to see this? And if he doesn't, why is he continuing on this path? Since the beginning of mass immigration, non-western immigrants have been at the top of the negative statistics, for example in statistics on crime or benefit dependency. Of the asylum migrants who have entered the Netherlands in recent years, hardly anyone has a job. The vast majority is in the welfare sector and that share is still growing. That will also continue under the new cabinet. Can the Minister explain why he wants to repeat the mistakes of his predecessors? Does he really think he could cause the trend break he was talking about in the Chamber last week? If so, how? How? With what justification? Where in the world does the Minister find a proven model for successful integration of masses of people into a society of limited association such as ours, the Dutch? Mr. Chairman. The government is fully committed to tackling labour market discrimination. Well, that's what I'm talking about. But with the priority on the housing market, free care, free education and living money are not the newcomers, but the Dutch being discriminated against. Since the Minister attaches great importance to factual truths, I would like to challenge him to disprove the examples on our website rutte3.nl. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	I see Mr Kuzu, too. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr De Graaf often talks about Western values. One of these Western values is freedom of faith. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country open to different people from different backgrounds. In the sixteenth century, large groups of Jewish people from Portugal came here. A few centuries ago, many Protestant Dutch came from the Southern Netherlands to the north of the Netherlands, because of the freedom of religion. So my question to Mr De Graaf is: why do you hate this Western value of freedom of faith so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	I welcome the mirror that Mr Kuzu is telling himself. You often see someone trying to project what's deep inside him onto someone else. That's always his trick here in the Chamber, to project his own idea of freedom of faith to the other. I don't hate the freedom of faith. Mr Kuzu calls what he himself confesses a faith. It's his Koran. It's his Islam. But it's an ideology. That ideology does nothing but limit the freedom of faith of non-Muslims. He then enters the Netherlands, with that urge for domination and not for assimilation, in which others are not granted freedom. Mr Kuzu can shake his head very hard, but then he does not know his own texts. We should not allow that in the Netherlands. So I'd say don't project this on me, but keep the hate to yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	It is clear that the PVV has done nothing but talk about one item on the agenda in the House of Representatives over the last twelve years, namely de-Islamicisation and openly preaching hatred. Since Mr De Graaf joined the House of Representatives, that has always been his contribution. My question is actually very simple. We see so many different signs of objective progress in people with a migration background. It's better with language control. It's getting better with the performance at school. Things are getting better in all kinds of different areas, although we still have a lot of challenges with each other. But the point is: what has been the contribution of the PVV to society, to the Netherlands, with the input you have had in recent years? It's always the same string, it's a gray-turned record. You can also see it in the various polls: the PVV fades, goes away completely; Baudet takes over. I would therefore like to ask you: what do you think the words that you preach here and which you have preached in recent years mean for and contribute to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	Once again, Mr Kuzu's next trick. I've seen that before. I would actually like to invite him to switch to Christianity. He would be an excellent minister with his tone and his intonation. I would like to offer him this: step over, the distance is small; do so, leave this Islam behind you. You could be an excellent minister, I would say, because the tone is already there. The one about the shape. Then about the content. You asked about our contribution and the challenges we all face. In replying to the questions raised by your first interruption, I have already given that answer to you. You can say that with many migrants things are getting better, but with Islam things are not going well properly, because Islam is not changing and remains a very bad, evil, hateful ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Muslim Brotherhood. Research carried out by the Tony Blair Institute, which is not the least institute, has shown that the Muslim Brotherhood and IS, Al-Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra and other jihadist organizations have the same philosophy. We already knew that, but research has shown that. The Muslim Brotherhood has a major influence worldwide and has been infiltrated in governance, politics and civil society organisations. In the Netherlands, too, this influence is expanding, as we saw in a 2011 letter from former Minister Donner. In the US, legislation is in preparation which is almost ready to place the Muslim Brotherhood on the list of terrorist organisations. Last year I also raised this problem. At that time, many parties supported my motion to investigate the influence, funding, interests and members of the Muslim Brotherhood. I would like to ask the Minister to take over that point. Otherwise, I am going to table a motion again in the second term. Mr President, I come to an end. The Islamization of the Netherlands is the biggest problem, I repeat, of this time. It is an existential problem and will become an increasing problem with the policy proposed by Rutte III cabinet. The coalition chord reads like the white flag. Can the Minister, if he really defends Rutte III's policy, or the enrichment that Islam brings to the Netherlands? Can he indicate what good Islam adds to our culture, democracy and the rule of law? I would like a comprehensive answer to that. Finally, Mr President. It will not surprise you: we must de-islamize to make the Netherlands a pleasant and free country for our children and grandchildren. So: close mosques, closing 53 Islamic schools, no more immigration from Islamic countries, stopping asylum reception, promoting remigration, preempting jihadists, denaturalizing and deporting, closing borders, stopping travelers to ISIS territory from entering and stopping cooperation with Diyanet, Milli Görüs and Süleymanci; dismantling those foundations. This is necessary, because the multicultural hell, in which more and more people end up in the Netherlands, is a harbinger of much more misery, Islamic misery. Is the Minister prepared to take our measures and turn the tide together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr President, thank you very much. The relaxation of the right of dismissal, the degradation of the WW, the continuation of flexibility in the labour market, in short: more uncertainty for the working middle class. Meanwhile, households should be happy with embarrassing purchasing power development, the AOW age does not go down to 65, pensions are not indexed and discounts do not occur. While Dutch people must continue to work longer and older people have been able to whistle for years at the indexing of their pensions, money goes to development aid and asylum seekers. The assistance continues to be an immigrant benefit, with which non-Western immigrants in particular can continue to cheat undisturbed. In the meantime, the government is addressing severely disabled people. In short, nothing improvement, nothing air for hardworking Dutch, elderly and disabled. This is in the brief Rutte III cabinet. It continues the demolition of Rutte II. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the hardworking Dutch, our middle class, have been given a lot of weight. On their own strength, these heroes kept their heads above water in permanent employment, as a flex worker or as a self-employed person. They paid involuntarily for the euro crisis and the asylum drama and benefited the least from all their efforts. Because they want to work for their money, want to be independent, are confused from holding their hands and do not want to lean unnecessarily on the welfare state, they could whistle to benefits. For them no free care, no priority over rentals and no cheque of thousands of euros to set up their homes. These are matters that are given to non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands. The middle class doesn't get any of this. Once on vacation? That's not often in there anymore. The little bit of savings they've still evaporated at a rapid pace. Is the washing machine broken? There's a good chance someone's gonna get into financial trouble right away. In recent years they have been systematically abandoned by politics in The Hague. Middle income has been mainly used to cope with all economic setbacks and to finance irresponsible hobbies by Mark Rutte, such as development aid, the EU, asylum and mass immigration. In the meantime, this cabinet is acting as if it is taking an interest in this group and as if this group would be making progress through the new government policy. They're made good with purchasing power figures. It turned out to be nice talk, because what's the real deal? A few weeks after the cabinet had uncorked the champagne bottles to celebrate the CPB figures, the increase in purchasing power presented turned out to be a shambles. The new Minister for Social Affairs and Employment had to confess that. The purchasing power crumbs promised to us are based on an unrealistic wage increase of more than 3% a year. Wages have increased on average by only 1.4% over the last four years and many employers say that it is still far too early for wage increases of more than 3%. So first we had to be happy with 0.3% of purchasing power crumbs for this year and 0.6% for next year while we were promised 1% and then we find that the purchasing power figures of the new cabinet are also based on complete bullshit. In fact, this minister is showing off another man's feathers. He is not at all the one who is responsible for wage increases and thus for the increase in purchasing power as stated in the government agreement. If that happens in a moment, it's because of the employers, not because of Koolmees and co. So that makes it twice as embarrassing. Mr. Chairman. That's not how you treat our people. These people don't deserve to be fooled. These people are struggling and deserve a fair picture of their financial position in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. I will give the Minister a number of figures, so that he himself has a realistic picture. One fifth of all households have no financial reserve. One in three households does not have enough money to repair the washing machine, replace worn furniture or go on holiday for a week. A quarter of the Dutch people have structural difficulties to make ends meet. I can go on like this for a while. Those are shocking numbers. That does not include false promises and purchasing power expectations. Then why does this cabinet do that? Why should this cabinet state in its answer to the factual questions against better knowledge "that the Dutch will actually feel the progress in this cabinet period in their pockets"? Why does the Minister keep fooling these people? Why does this cabinet pride itself on so-called low unemployment, when there are still many people on the sidelines? According to the CBS, 1.3 million people still belong to the "unexploited workforce" category. That is a shock and a different picture than this cabinet would like to sketch. However, it is the truth and it is not the end of it. If you read the CPB calculations correctly, you will see that a further 40,000 unemployed will be added within the current cabinet period. I ask the Minister: how the hell is this possible? Mr. Chairman. Back to the working middle class. Our economy may be getting better, but Dutch people don't feel that they benefit from it at all. The difference between what we see happening to our economy and what we feel in our own wallet wasn't that big in 30 years. That's not so crazy either. Since the turn of the century, gross domestic product has increased by 12%, while average disposable income has fallen by 3%. People notice nothing about the jubilee of politics in The Hague in their own wallet. What they do notice is that they are discriminated against massively, that the focus is not with the common Dutchman, but with non-Western immigrants. It's with asylum seekers. While our people are struggling, they see that they are being disadvantaged. They also see that the welfare state financed by the hard-working Dutch people is flooded and demolished by non-Western profiteers. I'm gonna blow my nose. That's the time of year. I'm a snot cold, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	I thought you were getting emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	No, no, I'm snot cold. But if I read this text like that, reflect on it again and also see that everyone just lets it get over them, then it would almost make you emotional!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	During Rutte II, for example, assistance had become more widespread than ever before. 63% is ethnic and 53% is non-western ethnic. In the meantime, municipalities do not stick to the language requirement and the consideration is hardly maintained, while our assistance stands at the mercy of our welfare state on non-Western immigrants. This can't be happening. We cannot give non-Western profiteers the opportunity to create a very expensive and dead weight in our society. Is it true that we have lost about EUR 3 billion a year to this group alone? This is at the expense of the hardworking Dutch who have to pay for this mistake without the gratitude of the recipients. 3 billion in assistance for this group! This simply has to end. It's time to give our own people the appreciation they deserve. That starts with political action. That starts with this group no longer seeing as easy victims that you can squeeze into the infinite, which you can use as a milk cow to pay for mass immigration. It's time to have our own people's eye again, to spend the money on them. That's why we need to put our house in order. Mr. Chairman. Let us begin by recognising once and for all that the preservation of our care state and mass immigration are an impossible combination. When you do that, you can only take measures to protect our welfare state. I call it making it as unattractive as possible for profiteers, halting the sucking effect of our welfare state, precisely to keep it feasible for the future. Let us begin by withdrawing all welfare benefits for people who do not want to meet the language requirement immediately. Let us also immediately withdraw all welfare benefits from status holders, and let us not continue to provide them to fortune seekers in any form whatsoever. Let us oblige the municipalities to maintain the requirements and conditions for receiving assistance. These are logical measures when you care about our welfare state, when you care about our own people. If you have an eye for those Dutch, you also have an eye for labour market policy. Then you set that up for the Dutchman too. A great deal has happened in recent years. Under the leadership of the VVD and the Labour Party, the labour market has in recent years been terribly messed up, with far-reaching flexibilisation, with all the consequences for people in their livelihood. And this cabinet seems to be doing something about it now, but it does not deserve to be applauded, especially when you read the letter from the minister last week. These are eight sides in which there are still a lot of uncertainties and vagueness. Because it is still unclear what this cabinet wants to do in order to bring flex work and employment relations closer together in a solid form. It is still unclear what exactly this cabinet wants to do to solve the big problem surrounding the zzp-schap and how it is going to get 50-plussers back in business. I have seen some vague points raised, but it really is not going to be concrete. The way in which the VVD and the Labour Party have dealt with the disabled in recent years is also just terrible. If you look at what's on the other side, there's still a lot of blurry stuff. Then where are those sheltered workplaces? When are they gonna get there? What exactly does it look like? It's still unclear. In short, Mr President, even in the coming years, hundreds of thousands of people remain in uncertainty. People are not just concerned about the work in itself. We are also concerned about the way in which we will have to retire. That creates uncertainty for a lot of people. Dutch people are entitled to a good and carefree old age, especially when you've worked hard for a lifetime. But this cabinet apparently feels differently about this and lets the antisocial automatic AOW age increase stand, with the result that many people go sick towards their retirement age, get into financial trouble and can barely keep their heads above water. We believe that this policy should stop. That is why we call on this cabinet to remove the AOW age increase. So no billions to development aid. Give that back to the people themselves and make sure that the AOW age is put back to 65. That's not just a PVV wish. That is a wish of many Dutch people. A majority of people want that age to be put back to 65. But the ties and the suits of this cabinet aren't looking at them. They don't listen to the ordinary man and woman on the street. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is also involved in breaking down the most beautiful pension system in the world. In the meantime, under the guise of "keep the pension system future-proof," this cabinet is destroying it with its panic stories. Let's stop with all the doom scenarios. If there are problems with sustainability, this is mainly due to politics itself. The PVV understands the attractiveness of a more personal pension, but the current discussion and plans of this cabinet go beyond that. It is about abolishing the world's second best pension system. Mr. Chairman. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the coalition agreement on this point too. Who's gonna get what part of the pension fund? Who is going to pay for the adverse effects expected by the CPB for the participants? It is about EUR 60 billion. How is that compensated? What about abolishing that average systematic? What exactly are the risks of the participants? We want the best pension for the participants. We want to maintain and improve the current system where necessary. But with so many essential questions, risks and uncertainties, aren't you going to hurt the best pension in the world? Is that too much to ask? I don't think so. Mr President, I will conclude. The Dutchman has already endured too much under the excuse of "solving the crisis." A lot has been broken down for the Dutchman. My question to these new rulers is very clear. In fact, there is a danger of more uncertainty. What exactly are you going to do for these people? 'Cause they can't take so many hits one after the other. They're already having a hard time. For the Dutch middle class it is already so difficult to keep my head above water that I wonder how things could continue to go well for those people in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	It is good that Mr De Jong explains that he has a cold, because I had the impression several times that he had stirred himself rhetorically to tears, but he just has a cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	Good joke!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr De Jong is clearly not very satisfied with the coalition agreement. He's negative about a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	At the same time, he has said a number of times in the whole section on the labour market: it is vague; it is not yet clear. But the coalition agreement contains a large number of measures, of which the Minister states: we are now going to develop them. But I cannot imagine that Mr De Jong is positive about none of the labour market measures contained in the coalition agreement. With regard to the labour market, he has often said that it is still vague and has not worked out. That's a fact. The cabinet's just sitting there and it's still working out. But there are measures that the PVV Group is positive about, aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	Let me start by saying that it took a long time before anything about the plans was sent to the Chamber. There has been a long time during the negotiations that the hardworking Dutchman was simply in uncertainty about thezzp'erschap and at all levels. Now we should be glad that a few days before the budget, eight A4s are sent to the Chamber, where there is still nothing at all. When it comes to labour market policy, what we often see in employers is that they have a major problem with paying wages in the event of illness. We can imagine, if you put that alongside other countries, that it is very spacious in the Netherlands. The reduction to one year and the second year collectively, in itself, we think is a good idea to do. We are not running away from that; that should give the employer air. But if you look more closely at labour market policy, you will see that this cabinet still praises and does nothing about labour migration. It remains very vague how we can get the 50-plussers to work. You can also still see that many people cannot cope with the increase in the AOW age to 67. When you're in your 30s, it'll be over 70. A lot of people can't handle that right now. Then I cannot be satisfied with the plans that are now before me. Then you can't blame me for wanting to cut that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	I don't blame Mr De Jong, so I can take that care away. Fortunately, he has mentioned one point on which he is initially positive. However, I would like to ask a more specific question about this. I would refer to measures in the area of pay-rolling, the flexible WW premium based on type of contract, the extended probation period and measures for downsidezzp'ers. Are these measures, which the PVV says: we do not see anything in isolation from the fact that it is not enough in the eyes of the PVV, that steps are being taken in the right direction, and we are going to support them in principle? Or does Mr De Jong say: no, these are measures that the PVV is not going to support anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	It seems a little like the CDA group is looking for a round of applause. But you're not getting any applause. Why don't you get a round of applause? Because there are still hundreds of thousands of people on the sidelines. 1.3 million people are on the sidelines with unexploited labour resources. Many people in the middle groups have to work hard and hard every day to make ends meet. Then you can come up with all sorts of vague plans and ask for applause, but I won't give you that. When it comes to thatzzp'er, nothing happens at all. Thatzzp'er is now uncertain and should now hear exactly what is going to happen, and not all kinds of forward plans. That's the way it is. If you've read the letter correctly, you know there's nothing in it about thezzp'er. I get it: of course, the CDA wants to get credits and look for success for themselves, but they just failed hard. If you had done well as a CDA, there would now have been a plan for thatzzp'er to really get out of trouble and then there would have been real plans for those middle groups. But you didn't. You've spent most of your money on development aid. You have made sure that there is more money for people who are non-Western immigrants. You do nothing against the profiteers of the non-Western side who can sit here for years without meeting the language requirements. You've just completely failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Heerma must be here... He doesn't have to do anything, but you're challenging him to respond to this. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	The interesting thing is that all kinds of groups in this House are also critical of the coalition agreement. On the basis of their election programme, so can they. Mr De Jong is allowed to do the same. At the same time, I see that all these groups say in parts: this is an improvement and we see a step in the right direction. That is because they have looked at these plans and think: this is an improvement. I can only hear Mr De Jong mention the payment of wages. I would ask for further action on the basis of his speech. It can be very small steps and he doesn't have to applaud at all. At least I don't need that personally. But isn't it crazy to ask for an appreciation or something that is a step in the right direction or something that the PVV isn't going to support anyway? I'm still asking him to answer that question. Are these steps that the PVV is going to support, but of which it still says "not good enough," or is it all firewood and will nothing be supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	Clear. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	There is little support to be given when they are all vague plans. When it comes to the rest of the parties, I am not going to take responsibility for that. It does show that they could all merge with each other; it's all one pot wet. At the moment when there is a bit of opposition, applause is requested from the CDA group. You're not getting it. You've failed hard as a CDA fraction. Be happy with it, but the middle groups aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. There's gonna be a moment in your life that you're thinking, "Will I be okay here?" Maybe I want to do it all differently? Am I going to go after that dream I always had, or am I afraid to choose it, and I'm just gonna sit where I am? Don't worry, I'm not talking about myself. I am very pleased as a member of this Chamber, Mr President, and I also think it is a special time to speak with you here today on an issue that is so incredibly important to everyone: the labour market. I will also include the issue of pensions in my contribution and my colleague Nijkerken-de Haan will address everything related to assistance, the Wajong, the Participation Act, debts and integration. No, Mr President, I was not talking about myself, but I was talking about someone who was an important source of inspiration for me for all the debates that I am allowed to have here on the labour market: my father. My father, who worked as a cook in a nursing home until the age of 49, but in whom it always kept tickling to do something else, to actually start doing things like his father, who had once left the wager behind him, and to start for himself. And he did. He quit his job more than ten years ago to stand in his own business almost every day of the week against the twelve hours a day. I wasn't just happy about that, because sometimes I could get a fry from him. Yes, Mr. Chairman, he has a snack bar, but I'm just proud that he followed his dream in that way. Additional advantage is that, if I occasionally eat a croquette with my father, he also lives in the Frisian Franeker, should you get hungry a large part of my wallet comes along in our conversations, and that helps again to speak with you today. Because it's not that simple, doing something else, and certainly not to take the step towards entrepreneurship. Fortunately, there are hundreds of thousands of people who make the choice for entrepreneurship and we see that number rising again. We should be very proud of that. People like my father, who work hard for their money at their own risk and at their own expense with insecure income and are proud when their hard work begins to pay off. It is also those entrepreneurs who have seen lean years in recent years and are happy that the economy is growing and flourishing again. Entrepreneurs who are jumping for new staff, who want to give that staff even a bit, after times of uncertainty, permanent ground again. But it's also those entrepreneurs who notice every day that the rigid rules get in their way in that they actually have to do an evening study right next to it to act it all. And all that aside from the search for the right people in the right place, for which you almost need an evening study HRM for, and that is frustrating, chairman, not only for entrepreneurs, but for everyone who is looking for work. We therefore have a political duty, especially now that things are getting better, to look fundamentally at the labour market in the coming years. That is what this government agreement does, and the VVD is very pleased with it: an ambitious agenda for the labour market. But, Mr President, let us not forget the last few years either. In a very difficult time we got things back in order. It is also appropriate to express the appreciation to the colleagues of the Labour Party for this. Together we made heavy and sometimes difficult choices, but we got the Netherlands on track. We're not just looking back, we're looking forward. For the VVD, this means ensuring that the labour market is in line with the rapidly changing world of the 21st century, that all the potential that we have actually harnessed and, of course, provide a safety net that will help with that. I would like to walk past the themes that are important for the VVD. Mr. Chairman. The current policy has not yet been set up on the labour market. We can see that on the entrepreneur's side and we can see that on the employee's side. Both of them feel insecure. And that's exactly what you feel when you're standing on the sidelines. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that entrepreneurs dare to take on people again and put up with solid ground again. That is why it is important that this cabinet hastens to reduce the labour market balance, a balance between risks and collateral, between fixed and flexible work. We also see this in the Minister's letter. That's good. I still have a few questions and concerns. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that we have no time to waste improving the labour market? And is he prepared to take action and ensure that at least the important regulations on dismissal, the rules on the transition fee for SMEs and the adjustments to the chain clause are implemented as soon as possible? We hear concerns from entrepreneurs about a possible accumulation of measures, such as the temporary contract, the construction of a transition fee from day 1 onwards, but also the extension of maternity leave. How is the Minister going to ensure that these burdens can also be borne by those smaller entrepreneurs? Is he also prepared to use an SME test for this? And is the Minister prepared to include a number of concrete cases in the draft law on the cumulation of dismissal grounds, so that we can now make sure that it helps entrepreneurs and employees to say goodbye to each other, of course with good decency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	The VVD talks here about the balance that should return to balance. I would very much like to hear from Mr Wiersma whether he does not see that the balance is somewhat lost. I do not have the impression that the balance between employees and employers is completely in balance, especially given the fact that there is much more uncertainty and much more flex. So I would very much like to hear where Mr Wiersma sees this balance. And Mr Wiersma is talking about "everyone at work." Can he also zoom in on the target group I stand for, i.e. on the older unemployed? How does he see that? In fact, I do not have the impression that employers have already fully grasped the issue of mentality, namely that this particular group represents a very good potential in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'll get back to the subject of retirement and older people in my story. If it's all right, I'll take an answer to the second question with that. On the question of the labour market balance, I can say the following. What strikes me is that you hear criticism of this coalition agreement both on the part of employees and on the part of employers. That criticism is sometimes that it does not go far enough and sometimes that it goes far too far. I am not saying that this is an automatic balance, but I do think that this coalition agreement has looked at how to make this permanent job more attractive. This also means, however, that you have to do something about the constructions that actually sometimes undermine the labour market. Payrolling is an example of that. We're taking that very actively. We also do premium differentiation in the WW. That's what we're gonna look at. We say: would you not like to see the 'polluter pays' principle included in that flexible contract? That is what we are going to investigate in this coalition agreement, and I also hope that the Minister will take it swiftly. The transition fee from day one we have not been able to arrange in the social agreement before; you know that. But we have now settled it in this coalition agreement. I think that's a big advantage. Atzzp'ers, we're really going to do something at the bottom of the labour market to prevent it from being eroded even further if you're not a real entrepreneur. So I think there are a lot of measures along these lines in the coalition agreement. And I agree with you: these are plans. The Minister has presented an agenda and a process for this, but I think it is plans that the labour market needs a lot. I would argue that this is a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	Just a little more. I say: there are a number of things that are positive, especially the approach to payrolling. I'm sure you'll get those credits. But the point you are referring to is the transition fee: nice that it certainly builds up from the first day, but I also see that it is removed from the back. It is really obsessed with older workers who work for a long time. So, yeah, I mean, about balance? I shall come back to that in my speech, but I do not see the balance as positive as Mr Wiersma is trying to put it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	That conclusion doesn't surprise me. I am also curious to hear Mrs Van Brenk's speech shortly. That balance is certainly in the balance, including on this transition fee, in particular in order to set it up in such a way that it will also contribute to a transition to the labour market, which will lead to your next step, which will lead to development and retraining. This is particularly important for older workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	I would like to congratulate Mr Wiersma on his introduction to his father. Good, that's good. Personal stories affect us, too, I think. I'm also touched that I was so surprised that I actually fell off my chair and came here because of the VVD's words about the security that employees are missing at the moment and that we need very much. Very good. In the coalition agreement, it says, "Payroll must be dealt with." We need to increase the cost of the WW premium, especially for flex. It's also in the coalition agreement. Good words, good starting points. And the VVD is also concerned about its speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	And the coincidence is that GroenLinks, SP and the Labour Party already have a bill payroll ready. The coincidence is that the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party already have an initiative paper on this flexible WW. I'd say, "Let's pick that up together and get it in now." We don't have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you for the compliments in the introduction. I would like to express my congratulations in this case, namely for the creativity of Mr Van Dijk, with his colleagues, to find very nice plans in the coalition agreement, to take them out and give them a very nice twist of their own. I appreciate that, because I also see this as supporting the direction we have in the coalition agreement. At the same time, we also say that we are doing this carefully. We'll take that step in payrolling with the field. I think it is important that, if we do this, there is support for this. We are doing it, but we are doing it in the way that leads to the solution on the labour market, namely providing people with land under their feet. I think you should put that at the center of attention. We do, and that also applies to premium differentiation. We need to take a good look at that. That's what the Minister's gonna do. I ask him how he is going to do that, because I am as curious as you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	I would like to point out to Mr Wiersma that the payroll legislation has been there since the summer. In the meantime, the bill has gone to the Council of State, so that's not creative. And we're all in a hurry. I hear Mr Wiersma saying on the one hand that we are in a hurry, but now there are two concrete plans that he also wants, but then we have to look for support and then we have to consult with the Minister. No, there are thousands of people waiting for these assurances. Let us do it now, given the words you also say about their necessity. Let's just do it together now. What's the reason not to do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	I think it's supposed to be done now. That was clearly stated by the Minister in his letter. We are doing this together with a number of other measures that are linked. That is the approach that has been adopted, and we think that is a good idea. I think you should do this carefully, but with speed, in the approach the Minister is taking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr Wiersma of the VVD just said that SP, PvdA and GroenLinks were very creative when it comes to finding good things in the coalition agreement. We can take that as a compliment, but it can also be understood as a point of self-criticism by Mr Wiersma. I'll leave that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	That's a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	Okay, good, we'll stay optimistic. I also hear very nice words from my colleague from the VVD. A labour market, following the world. Potential exploitation. To take away insecureness. I think we all agree with that. So my question is: is the VVD really flat out of its flex addiction? In other words, what, according to Mr Wiersma, is a good percentage of people with a flex contract in the Netherlands, a country where the spuigates have ended, as he also knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	In my view, we are now seeing on the labour market that things are improving, that there are a lot of vacancies, that there are shortages in many sectors, that entrepreneurs are jumping to the point of rehire, as I said, people, also in permanent employment. If business is going well, so can business. I do not think it is a question of percentages, but I think it is a question of making employment more attractive and ensuring that we build security in the labour market. That's what we do in the coalition agreement. I will say a few things about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	Then I will briefly reword my question. Does my colleague Wiersma of the VVD think that the current percentage of people working under a flex contract in the Netherlands is too high?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	We have the ambition to make a permanent job for employees and employers easier. If we can change the percentage you mention, I am in favour of it. But that is not against everything, because it is something they do for employers at their own risk and expense. That would also require flexibility. They see a world that is changing more and more rapidly, in which a company can fall down overnight. Look at V&D. Horde's people are gonna be out on the street. The technology is moving fast. Any house can be a hotel and any car can be a taxi. This is also the labour market that these employers have to deal with. I think you need to balance that. That is what we are doing with this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	We were very pleased to see that the government parties had stolen our idea and incorporated it into the government agreement. That's first of all. But now I hear Mr Wiersma say'speed is needed'. Then I hear him throw up all kinds of barricades: first they have to be met and then they have to be met. In my view, we all want to see a situation where there is no party in the Chamber that does not want to do so, which makes payroll constructions superfluous. Which barricades exactly does Mr Wiersma throw up? What conditions must be met before this Chamber can adopt the law that we have submitted and finally get the payrollers what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	I told you, we don't throw barricades at all. We look at a number of measures together. The Minister wrote about this in his letter. That is the way in which we can find ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Wiersma said in a few sentences that it should be looked at in conjunction. That's exactly the barricade, that's exactly the barricade. Let me rephrase the question: how long do you want to wait until the right of dismissal or do I know what has been reached, which I do not think is going to happen? How long do you want to wait until that payroll law can be passed here in the Lower House, so that the problem of payrollers is solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	If I understand correctly, the Minister will send legislation and regulations to the Chamber in the course of 2018. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	It's already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yes, your law is there, but the minister also comes up with regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	Looks like we're running out of time. Let's do business right away, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	All fine words: it's all going to be fantastic, it's only going to get better. In the meantime, when it comes to job growth, we see that it's just about all flex jobs. Anyway, that's not my question. I am concerned with the way in which the coalition agreement has been walked. With a lot of bombs, also by the VVD, it was indicated that everyone would really improve. The purchasing power figures were then presented, with which the VVD was very happy, and then found out that it's all a wash nose. Why? Because it's based on the growth of wages. Now it has been the minister himself who said: listen, those wages are rising less than expected. How does the VVD view its own way of presenting purchasing power figures in relation to today's reality, showing that no one is making any progress at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you for this question. I understand that if you've made a nice list of figures for your speech and there's a letter that actually says that everyone's net progressing, while the wage increase hasn't yet been taken into account, that the care allowance is going up, that the child-related budget is going up, that the child-care allowance is going up, that the parent discount is going up, that the work discount is going up, and that the figures show that on average people are actually getting better, which doesn't match your story, here's the point. I understand that, but I can't back it up with the figures in this letter. 'Cause I don't think they match what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	This is really nice. There is now a member of the VVD Chamber who indicates that what the Minister is putting forward here is not correct. My question was about the way in which the VVD, when presenting the coalition agreement with a lot of bombs, indicated that we would make such progress in purchasing power. However, this appears to be based on the way wages develop. There must be an increase of more than 3% per year, but employers say that they do not see any room for a 3% or more increase in wages in the coming years. In today's letter... That is an important point, Mr President, because it is a question of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	Everything is important, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	Today's letter states that someone with a moral income, a single earner with children, is 0.2% down. It's getting worse. So my question is: how does it relate to the reality in which people do not see their net disposable income improving?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	I appreciate the fact that Mr De Jong has found the minus in that whole list of positive figures. I have that letter here, too. It says that the increase in wages has not yet been taken into account. That's what you're saying. He's not in here yet. He's gonna join us. I just mentioned a whole list of things that we also arranged in the previous cabinet. Think of 5 billion in relief. So there are a lot of measures that we will see again next year and that will simply lead to progress, as you can see in the letter you have there. In particular, you are right on this point. This is, and is also described in the letter, because of the transferability of the tax rebate, its phasing-out, because working also has to pay. That's pretty much the mantra of my party. If there's any incentive to make that pay, it's right here. We have also deliberately chosen to reduce that tax discount. Mr President, perhaps I can conclude by saying that I understand what Mr De Jong is saying about figures and purchasing power figures, but I note that he himself had a very clear election programme with some figures in it. In my opinion, 3 billion of income tax was collected. The cabinet doubles. Those are, for my part, a few figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr Wiersma rightly mentions the mantra that must pay for work, but the finger is rightly placed on certain groups that fall between shore and ship. As a SGP, we have called once again for attention to be paid to the difficult situation of a family of earners, where one of the partners is not even able to work. Does this mean that, as far as Mr Wiersma is concerned, there is no opening up in this kind of harrowing situation to cater to a family of earners? If it is said that only one of the partners works, so it is unfortunate that they are also the victims of the reduction of the tax rebate and that sort of thing; it does not matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, it's the whole package. The rise in wages is not in this either. I also understand the point that Mr Bishop is making. Of course, it is also true that we have had NIBUD figures on this situation. For the coming years, the picture, as far as I can see now, looks different. I think it's on the retina with us, too. It's not like we're deliberately trying to make a little mischief here. No, I think the government's commitment is to actually improve purchasing power for everyone. That is what was said in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then I am very curious about the concrete measures that the VVD is prepared to take. So far, we've been knocking at the door with the message: "Something has to be done, because the NIBUD and the Scientific Council for Regional Policy both point out that these are the weakest families in society. That's where poverty is to be found. There's the kids under the poverty line." I am now very curious to hear proposals from the VVD in order to get things done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	That is exactly why we agreed to this in the government agreement, such as increasing the child-related budget and in relation to the tax rebate, the labour rebate and so on. The measures I have just outlined are precisely what we are trying to achieve for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yeah, 'cause I'm not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	No, I know. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	It's a matter of concern. An important part of the new labour market balance is also the improved regulation ofzzp's through the introduction of three categories. For the VVD it is important that the obvious zzp'er and his client also get clarity quickly. After all the uncertainty and fear that has been raised in recent years, we are really obliged to provide this important group of entrepreneurs with security. The VVD was not entirely happy with the announcement that the government'szzp measures will not enter into force until 2020. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether the turbo can be used. Of course we understand that developing such a web tool takes time, but is it not possible to reveal the criteria, which can also clarify the relationship of authority, before, for example, 1 January 2019 at the latest, so that there is also clarity for the real zzp'er? The same applies to the high rate, which also clearly includes entrepreneurs. Can they be clear before 2020? We're considering a motion on this point. Another point concerningzzp'ers. The cabinet also wants to consider how to increase the degree of insurance for disabled persons by talking to insurers about an attractive offer. Can the Minister promise that he'll do that soon? Can he also take into account that some insurers cover only up to 55 years in specific professions, for example? This concerns roofcoverers, floorresters, iron plunders and masons. Can he take that in that conversation? It is particularly important for those professions to make this insurance possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr De Jong wants Mr Özdil to lead the way. What kindness! But Mr De Jong was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u82	I am committed to keeping the debate a little clean. I have just looked at the letter from just now on the purchasing power figures. And what do I see in there? Average wage developments have been taken into account. It was included in the purchasing power cards sent to the Chamber today. It has just been said to me that what I have just referred to would not be correct because wage developments would not be included. I would like to put that as a point of interest. If Mr Wiersma wants to sell his own plans in this way, I hope he will refrain from doing so for the rest of the debate. It's just in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u83	To remove that ambiguity: I only quoted from page 1, which contains the table with the pay slip effects. The increase in wages has not yet been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u84	GroenLinks fully agrees with Mr Wiersma when it comes to the plans in the government agreement for a minimum rate forzzp's. He just indicated that the minister is going to talk to the social insurance companies to come up with an appropriate offer forzzp'ers. Does the VVD agree with GroenLinks that when the minimum rate forzzp's is set, that must be at least enough to pay those insurances and to have a normal life in addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u85	We have deliberately identified three categories in the elaboration of the coalition agreement. I also look forward to the work of the Minister. That's why I'm asking questions. That is also about the minimum rate. That is also one of the elements that I am aware is precisely what this is about. I asked for clarity, and I ask for clarity especially for the obviouszzp'er. On this point, it is precisely the intention of the cabinet to lay a foundation for it, so that it is clear that you should be self-employed. Are you actually asking me to take this minimum rate into account that there is still a need to be insured, for example, for incapacity for work? It appears to me that this is the case; it is clear. That question is also on the retina and I will pass it on to the Minister, so that he can also give his planning for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u86	It is very kind of my colleague Wiersma to pass the question on to the Minister, but my question was addressed to him. Again, my question is whether the VVD agrees with GroenLinks that the minimum rate forzzp's in the government agreement should be at least so high that they can pay disability and pension insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u87	The choice to insure makes the obvious zzp'er himself. Nor, in the coalition agreement, do we choose to impose that obligation. We therefore choose to lay down a clear ground. So if you're a vzzp'er up there, you make the choice how you do it. Then there are the client's declaration and then there are clear criteria, which are tested on you actually are zzp'er. Then it's up to you, if you're an obviouszzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u88	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u89	I'm about to take this comprehensive answer as a no. I'd like to hear it if I've taken that the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. It doesn't stop there. I have two points that are more about the long-term perspective. The Minister announced that he would like to talk about how to prepare for tomorrow's labour market and the day after tomorrow, with permanent learning, about which I am going to say something, about providing security, sustainable employability and so on. The VVD also sees this as the fundamental discussion on the labour market. The coalition agreement already contains many good plans for this, but the challenges do not stop after four years. That is why I have two suggestions. The first: will the Minister also explicitly include all the new forms of work that are emerging? The growth of platforms such as Home delivery and Uber shows that the platform economy is emerging. This creates many opportunities for new jobs, but also more and more labour law challenges. The government's plans are part of the solution, but labour law is increasingly sanding with the increasing hybridity of the work. There is still a research assignment from the previous minister on the job economy. It focuses mainly on the size and way of working. Hence my appeal to this Minister to include the future of the contract of employment. Is it possible to ask the ESC, and through the ESC, the field parties, to carry out a fundamental analysis of the changing labour market questions on which the employment contract should respond? Can he identify the bottlenecks and propose specific solutions? Can he promise to inform the Chamber about this? At this point I also have something practical. During the round table on the platform economy that we organised, partly at the initiative of Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA, it emerged that the information on questions such as "how do you work in the platform economy?" And "what do you have to take into account?" isn't always in order. This was addressed by almost all those present. Can the Minister work on this? Can we also strengthen the information you need to take into account, for example a checklist, through the public information provision of the government? The second suggestion is that a discussion on tomorrow's labour market should include a consultative economy that is forward-looking. As former chairman of FNV Jong, I will be the first to value employer and employee representation. But perhaps I am the first to see the challenges. As a result of the fact that the employee no longer exists, the level of representation of these well-known social partners is also clouded. Central and sectoral consultation is characterised by a certain stability, but if you look at it through less positive glasses, it also has elements of a monopoly. A lot is awarded to the polder, including by the VVD, and, quite often rightly, sectors are given the opportunity to deviate from the collective agreement. But if we're gonna keep it that way, we're gonna need some thinking here, too. There must also be something to the contrary, namely room for modernisation and improvement. This point is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. We are curious to see how the Minister is shaping this. Let me mention: to provide space for new collectives at the existing tables, open to alternative arrangements for a part of the field and to provide more space for customization, for example by making collective agreements more broad-based and testing for space for customization. Can the Minister indicate how he looks at these kinds of modernisation questions? Can he also indicate how he will take this into account in the conversation he will have with the social partners? And how does the Minister see his role in this? As far as the VVD is concerned, it fits a kind of role of coach of the polder, but hopefully one that is more successful than the league coach we have seen on the field in recent years. Can the Minister undertake to do this? Is he gonna be the union coach, too? Mr President, I see an interruption coming, but shall I finish this completely first? Yes, I do. The importance of development and education, your lifelong, is a very important point for the VVD. I mentioned my father at the beginning of my speech. The labour market requires a well-educated workforce. In some sectors there is even a cry for it. The new normal is that you continue to explore new techniques and developments throughout your working life. This means that you must have the opportunity to retrain and to maximise and maintain your chances in the labour market. But the VVD also sees that the word "training" sometimes raises some resistance. I mention the fear of having to go back to college, of a heavy study burden in what once were your night off and of course for the hard-ass buffaloing for exams. And let's be honest: that also sounds pretty intense. But the way it sounds, it doesn't have to be. On the contrary. It is precisely retraining that can provide the right tools to get that dreamed job in the end. Retraining is not necessarily a classy thing. It is a way to further develop or expand your skills, including in practice. Money is available for retraining, but this is not always sufficiently exploited, as De Telegraaf's research recently showed. And from the Minister's letter, I would point out that at least half of the resources in training funds are still unused. So either it's shredded or it's stuck in collective pots. That's a shame. How's the minister gonna get that money out? The VVD would also like people to have a personal budget at their disposal. This is in the coalition agreement and is really in a hurry as far as the VVD is concerned. The labour market is now crying out for good staff and there are still too many people on the sidelines. Can the Minister outline a timetable for the realization of the personal learning account? Can the Minister make haste by starting some experiments next year? There are already several examples. Could he support that? And is the Minister also prepared to examine what incentives combined with working conditions could contribute to this permanent learning culture in the future? That is an important point for the VVD. Can the Minister also promise that he will look at establishing a direct link between the learning account and the transition fee? Finally, on this point. It must always pay to continue to develop yourself. After all, you've never been learned. Does the Minister agree with me that this fact deserves an important role in collective agreements? A training budget is perhaps the most important thing for those who are still on the sidelines. What opportunities does the Minister see for retraining to play an important role within a benefit? Is the Minister prepared to draw up a pilot on educational arrangements? The amendment we tabled together with CDA, D66 and the Christian Union to free up 30 million for retraining grants is, in our view, a good first step. Finally, I will deal with pensions. Although my father is still in his snack bar every day with a lot of enthusiasm, we also talk about what it will be like when he retires. Because that is also where people live with uncertainty. That is why it is time to modernise and restore confidence here too. People want to see their own pension fund and this also requires the abolition of the average contribution. The ESC has provided an important basis for the reform of the system. The VVD would like the Minister to clarify quickly the timetable he envisages and the progress he sees in the polder. The admiration for my father is one that I feel for all the entrepreneurs in this country. Contrary to the impression which is sometimes given here, entrepreneurs do not want to leave their employees in uncertainty, squeeze them out or throw them out on the street at the slightest or least. They work hard on a beautiful product or service and also seek people they can trust. They want to be able to trust that those people with the same heart for the business will help the company grow further. We must cherish these entrepreneurs and give them the opportunity to offer many others a job in our country. As my father had the dream to start and build his own business, so I have the dream that in this Chamber, in this house and with these colleagues, the conditions can be created to make that possible for all those entrepreneurs, and thus also for all those people who work, want to work more or are looking for work. And for those who really can't do that, we have a good safety net in the Netherlands. Having said that, I am giving the floor to my colleague, Mr Nijkerken-de-Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u92	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr Wiersma talks about the future. The future of training and the future of work are important. But there is also a very big problem now. Many older workers are not able to get a healthy pension. I have read the coalition agreement very well and I do not see a single word on the possibilities of stopping earlier or working less than a day. What are the plans of the VVD for this particular group, this generation, which can no longer school, but wants to work a little less to get a healthy pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u94	In the past period, together with the PvdA, we have made the AOW sustainable, so that our children and grandchildren can also have AOW in the future. That is an important starting point. I think Mr Gijs van Dijk will share that with us. In the government agreement, we have been working on the renewal of the pension system. We need to look much more closely at education and training and ensure that people with a heavy physical profession can retrain to another profession. I think we really need to work on that. I believe that you are doing something to stand up for this group by helping them with concrete measures. They are also in this coalition agreement. For the group that doesn't make it, we extend the IOAW. We also have the bridging arrangement. So it's not like we're completely ignoring that group. In fact, there are also measures to help people get to work faster. We have used the no-rickspolis, for example, in the past period. So I think the cabinet has a lot of attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u95	So nothing. So I do not hear any concrete measures for the people who indicate this widely. The FNV has also rightly said: we want to talk about retirement, but then we also want to talk about people who do not make it. We are talking about the generation pact, part-time pensions and all the measures that are needed and which the Minister needs to talk about in the back in order to reach a good agreement in the end. Is the VVD willing to give that space to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u96	These generation pacts are exactly what the Minister has in his pocket, even if I look at what he has literally said about them. I know the generational pacts, too. These are sometimes very good examples. I think it is very good to look at the challenge for the heavy professions at sectoral level. At this time when employers are looking for a lot of people and there are shortages, you don't stand up for older job seekers by putting them behind the geraniums. You do that by taking a serious look at how you're helping this group. We have many measures for this in the coalition agreement. It's really full of it, I'd say. I think it's really too short of the curve that you're making here. The care is clear. That's what we care about. How do you ensure that people with a heavy appeal to another place can be of value again with the knowledge and expertise they have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u98	You have concerns, but you have no measures. Those measures are urgently needed in order to ensure that these people are able to return to retirement in a healthy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u99	I mentioned those measures. An important measure that Mr Van Dijk could also contribute to, because he had previously had good contact with the polder, is to ensure that we speed up the renewal of the pension system. I think that's really good for the elderly, because then they'll get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, also on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. As my colleague Dennis Wiersma said, we have so many entrepreneurs with jobs and so many people who want to work or work more. They're jumping to get to work. Our economy is growing and thriving. As an entrepreneur, you see that your hard work is beginning to bear fruit. You really want to hire people, but it's a really big challenge to find them. And that while there are still 1.3 million people standing aside or quite willing to work more hours. The labour market therefore needs to be modernised. In addition, it is very important in terms of the VVD that we get people who are on side or who are now working and want to work more, so that we can bring more and better together supply and demand. We must not forget that a social safety net is needed and remains for the group of people who cannot do it alone or who need support. They must be able to count on the support they need to sustain themselves. Mr. Chairman. To get to work at all, you have to find the right job. That is still not enough. There are several reasons for that. As I said earlier, supply and demand are not sufficiently linked. That is frustrating, for the people looking for work, but also for the entrepreneur who is just jumping over staff. Especially SMEs, the engine of our economy, are in the hair. We need to tackle this so-called mismatch, and quickly. I find it difficult to explain at a birthday party that we still do not succeed, no matter how many times we have talked about it, in order to bring supply and demand together better. While there are good examples. I take both directors in mind to Limburg; a trip to the south of the country. As a Member of Parliament from this province, my choice for Limburg is not going to surprise me. Not only because it is very nice to live there, but also because I would like to highlight their response to and approach to this mismatch. The province of Limburg together with 33 municipalities has made an ambitious plan of attack: "Zo WORKT Limburg!" This initiative was launched because the individual approaches of the different municipalities and labour market regions in the province were too fragmented. They joined forces, thus providing an answer to the mismatch I have just spoken about. For example, Limburg can prepare its untapped labour potential for the labour market. The parties are now going to focus on the healthcare sector, logistics and construction, sectors where there are really large deficits. The plan isn't entirely on its own either. It is a follow-up to the Limburg approach, which saw on VDL Nedcar and has really shown that it works as business, educational institutions and municipalities together make an appropriate approach, so that people who were first on the side are now employed as full-time employees. It is fantastic that these initiatives are being taken up and implemented on such a large scale. The VVD also sees enormous opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in this example. Let me tell you why. Not so long ago I visited a large bakery in South Limburg. This family business has grown considerably in recent years despite the economic downturn. It has even made plans to train people themselves, not only so that they can work in the bakery, but also in logistics, for example. You understand: the loaves and pies must also be transported to the outlets. It is very nice that an entrepreneur takes on that responsibility, but the reason he does so is, above all, that he cannot find the appropriate staff with the right training and experience. I find that, Mr President, very sad, especially when you consider that not all SMEs are in the circumstances that they can train people themselves. Entrepreneurs from small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the capacity, like VDL, to agree with UWV and municipalities on arrangements for people on the sidelines, while they are now experiencing a shortage of staff. At the moment, they are really not being helped sufficiently by the government, which could provide the people who are on the side and who can make such a big contribution to the companies to get to work there. We really need to break that trend, because employers are failing. Mr. Chairman. There is therefore an important task for the labour market regions. Fortunately, the Secretary of State agrees with this in the letter she has just sent to the Chamber. Services to employers can and must really be improved in a number of areas. The VVD therefore considers it important to have a single point of contact for employers in each labour market region. This contact point is given as an important task to talk to and care for SMEs in particular. I have tabled an amendment together with my colleagues from CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion to provide financial support for this. I would also like the Secretary of State, following the successful approach at VDL Nedcar, to encourage the labour market regions in Limburg, as a complement to the Limburg plan, to strongly invite SMEs to participate and, for example, to develop together arrangements for which training is a very important part. I speak of so-called 'learning jobs', in which people, even over the age of 27, learn and work in the workplace while retaining benefits, in order to give them a chance to participate fully again. As far as we are concerned, municipalities and UWV are really at the bar to deliver participants. As far as I am concerned, Limburg's approach is really an example for other provinces and labour market regions. I hope that the Secretary of State will agree with me and perhaps give this to other provinces and labour market regions as well. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this requires that UWV and municipalities really know people. I've drawn attention to this before. I know you have to take a long time in The Hague, but my patience is running out. In connection with previous debates, we have created the candidate scout. The UWV has now introduced nearly 75,000 people, so that employers can now search for the capabilities of people they need. But let me just say it the way I feel it: I'm just really sick of the fact that municipalities haven't delivered enough. Up to week 40 of this year, only 3,200 customer profiles have been introduced. And that is when we made additional funds available for this last year's budget treatment. That's how we wanted to encourage municipalities to just do this. How can a municipality provide candidates for a job opening for, for example, a guarantee job if it still doesn't have insight into who lives in their municipality from the target group and what abilities and qualities does it have? I would like to hear whether the Secretary of State shares my feeling and what steps she is going to take to urge municipalities to simply do what they are responsible for. Mr. Chairman. I actually want to go one step further. The VVD actually thinks that all people in the assistance should be available to employers. I see a kind of development of the candidate explorer, a kind of Tinder app, in which employers can quickly get in touch with people who want to get started quickly and quickly. I call on the Secretary of State to consult with the VNG to really tackle and solve this problem now, simply because it can just help people get to work and because the labour market is also jumping over those people. I'd say a win-win. Mr. Chairman. That is my bridge to the next point I would like to discuss: the untapped workforce. The VVD wants as many people as possible who are now on the sidelines for any reason and do not participate in the labour market again. I do not want to keep people trapped in regulations, but rather to use the arrangements to help them out and make them independent. Employers are happy to contribute to creating jobs for people with disabilities. However, the current rules do deter employers. In our view, it helps to harmonise and harmonise regulations. We need to make it easier for employers to create workplaces and make it pay for people to start working on benefits. The VVD welcomes the outline letter of the State Secretary on pay dispensation, in which it outlines the frameworks within which it will develop the scheme. We therefore await this amendment with interest. Mr. Chairman. We also have unused labour potential in fathers and mothers with children. The plans in the coalition agreement are based on an additional budget for the 250 million childcare allowance. The VVD therefore sees this as an additional incentive to give more parents the opportunity to go to work, to work more or to prevent them from working less. In addition, the VVD welcomes the fact that the Minister also kept his commitment during the examination of the SZW Collecting Act November. A solution has been found, in consultation with the branch organisation for host care, to the problem that would arise as a result of the introduction of the Law on minimum wage. It is nice that this form of host parent care, whereby host parents receive the children of several parents in the home of one of the host parents, it is a bit complicated................................................................................................................................................. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. If we do everything we can to tap into the untapped workforce, it is also good and sensible to look at the rules we have agreed on the social safety net. You will understand, Mr President, that I would also like to give something to the cabinet about the municipal implementation of this, although I realize that the local council members in particular need to appeal to their directors locally. Municipalities have been given a lot of policy freedom with the introduction of the Participation Act, but the frameworks of the Act are very clear according to the VVD. As far as the VVD is concerned, municipalities have given too no commitment to instruments such as the counterpart and the language requirement, instruments which, as far as we are concerned, are intended to speed people up from benefits. We have agreed on this in the government agreement; I am curious to see what the Secretary of State will do to address the municipalities. Is she involved in this dossier with the Minister responsible for integration and integration? In any case, the Minister responded positively to this during the general consultation last week. I would like to know when we can expect results from these joint efforts. After all, it is only natural that you do everything in your power to get to work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u102	You scared the hell out of me. I hear the VVD saying here: work must pay. That is very positive; that seems to me to be the case. But at the same time the VVD says: pay dispensation. As a result, people with a disability are going to work below the minimum wage. When we look at the figures, we really see that labour costs subsidies are highly valued by employers and that it is a successful tool to get people with disabilities to work. So I do not understand why you are here making a plea for the pay dispensation and saying: very nice. Can you explain that in conjunction with your sentence that work should pay? You said if you're gonna work, you're gonna pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yeah, it should. According to the Secretary of State's letter, that's what's gonna happen. She's made that very clear. Wage dispensation is not a new arrangement. It's an instrument we've been using in the Wajong for years. It's used over 16,000 times. On the other hand, wage cost subsidies are much less used. Wages are also paid to work. It also pays to work more hours. At the moment, I think it pays to start working with wage costs only if you work for more than 28 hours. In my view, therefore, it simply complies with the principles that we have set out in the coalition agreement: working must be rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u104	It does, however, make sure that the worker who already has a disability has to get his income from different jars. He also sees that the income he gets from his work is less than what his colleagues get. I would like to hear from the VVD what is right about these different jars, this bureaucracy, and the fact that someone is paid less than his colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u105	It is true that with pay dispensation you have two arrangements side by side. Again, that's not new. A lot of Wajongers are getting it this way at the moment. For me, it is important to make it easier for employers to use the means of pay dispensation. This will create more jobs. I am absolutely convinced that it is. I think that's what we want. We want as many jobs as possible, especially for people with disabilities. I'll bet on that. I'll check it on that, too. Then it must be very clear in the plan as the Secretary of State is going to work that it is going to pay for people to start working on a benefit. So we're not holding them on the couch. By offering more jobs through pay dispensation, it makes it easier for people to take up a job, because then there are also jobs. And it's also gonna pay to go to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u106	If a measure makes it easier for an employer but at the same time makes it more difficult for the worker with a disability, whose side should you be on? I'd say you'd be on the side of the worker with a disability. Apparently the VVD says: no, we are on the side of the employer. He also has a P&D department to handle the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u107	I do not entirely agree with you, but you will not be surprised. I am certainly on the side of people with disabilities, precisely because I want to help them get to work. That means there must be jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u108	This is really pissing me off. In my opinion, this brings out the VVD's dream: lifelong benefits for people, lifelong benefits for people with disabilities. Because that's the plan. And then 500 million cuts on tens of thousands of people who would normally get a wage, get a pension and get social security. That is a fundamental point for those people who very much want to participate fully. But the VVD says, with this coalition, we don't care, we give a kick, the payoff. What's that lineup?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u109	I don't push people into benefits, I chase them out eventually, because there are jobs and because it's also going to pay to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u110	We have agreed with the VVD the guarantee jobs and we have agreed that people would participate fully in the workplace, with full pay, with retirement and with social security. We haven't been gone for a few months, and the VVD's dream comes true: we're putting people on welfare for life and cutting down 500 million on people with disabilities. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u111	I don't hear a question in that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u112	They're a little short answers, so I'm gonna give Mrs. Nijkerken another chance. I would suggest that people who are talking here about 'wage dispensation' talk about 'wage discrimination', because that is what it is. Those people are put under the minimum wage and remain in benefits forever. Half a billion people are being cut back. I can't believe you'd support that, Mrs. Nijkerken. Or are you ruling out here today that people fall below the minimum wage because of these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u113	In my view, the Secretary of State has made it quite clear in her outline letter that the regulation still needs to be worked out. People are gonna get more out of it than they do when they're at home on benefits, so work is gonna pay off. We await the outcome, we wait and see what the arrangement will look like in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u114	For the good listeners: I did not get an answer to my question. Mrs Nijkerken, the VVD does not exclude people from the minimum wage. 'Minimum wage' is, in my view, a very clear word. Now all kinds of parties indicate aldermen, directors, people who are in that situation themselves, trade unions: don't do this, because there is zero point zero support for it. Are you prepared to look at the excellent alternatives that exist for this plan, for example removing the lower income benefit or removing the 20,000 sheltered workplaces that are probably not there? Are you prepared to look at the alternatives to get this savaged plan off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u115	Once again, I believe that the Secretary of State has made it quite clear in her letter that she is also going into consultation with the field. So I'd like to wait very much for the plans the Secretary of State will come up with. She also has her eyes and ears open. We all do. I like to wait for those plans. Then we are definitely going to talk about this again here, because this also requires a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, this minister is also responsible for integration and integration. He must ensure that people who are allowed to stay here adapt and make an active contribution to our country. Unfortunately, we are still very concerned in the neighbourhood and in the streets, but also in the figures of the Minister himself. People with a migration background are relatively more common in crime rates, less often have a job and more often have views that are far removed from the basic principles of Dutch society. In the second generation this is sometimes even stronger than in the first. With certain groups of origin, things are downright bad. For example, more than 50% of Somalis are in the assistance. Integration is therefore a priority for this cabinet. There was a first part of an AO Integration last week. The VVD welcomes Mr Becker's response to questions which show that the Minister also wants to address the concerns seriously. Can he confirm today that he is coming up within six months with the elaboration of the government agreement on linking consequences to the culpable non-inhabitable, on a care system and on raising the language level to B1? Fortunately, the Minister has already said not to re-introduce target groups policy. However, he will continue to review the integration system. The VVD is pleased that it will continue to place its own responsibilities at the centre of the process. We look forward to the plans. The VVD wants to indicate that a new system must not mean that it will depend on municipal political decision-making what good integration is. Objective quality standards are needed with objective monitoring. As far as we are concerned, the market must also remain open to good providers of integration education and also to new entrants. Does the Minister share this view of the VVD? Furthermore, the VVD considers that work should be much more central during the integration process. We have proposed in the AA that the mandatory theoretical orientation on the labour market should be made a practical orientation. The Minister has responded positively to the idea of workplace integration, but is he also prepared to examine whether this can become a standard part of the labour market orientation module? Mr President, I am slowly coming to a conclusion. If we put into practice all the points that I have just discussed and raised, then more people will regain access to jobs and independence. That is what I am committed to, and that is what the VVD is committed to, because working must pay off. With this coalition agreement, we will increase the employment discount, reduce income tax and increase the amount of money for the childcare allowance. These are the tax schemes that focus on income policies. Although municipalities are not allowed to pursue income policies, the VVD does see that local poverty policies can contribute to the poverty trap, which does not pay people in a monetary sense to start working. That can't be the intention. Can the Secretary of State indicate what she intends to do in her talks with the municipalities on this subject? If, as a national policy, we want to ensure that working is really rewarding, then it is very important that the local authorities are also aware that poverty policies must not go against that idea. Finally, I would like to say briefly that the VVD welcomes the recent letter from the Secretary of State on the broad approach to debt, in which it indicates its desire to speed up this process. This also fits in well with the round table of the SZW committee, which I believe is requested by Mr Voortman, beginning next year where my colleague De Lange will participate on behalf of the VVD. It remains for me to state that I am looking forward to the reply of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u118	I would have liked to have had an interruption about how people are being treated with assistance. But what Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan is now saying about poverty regimes, well, that really breaks my heart. It indicates: if municipalities give too much space to combat poverty, this leads to people no longer working. But the jobs are very difficult to find. If you know that someone is currently out of work and has children who grow up in poverty, then we should give municipalities more opportunities to do something about it and not less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u119	I have indicated that, of course, it cannot be the intention that poverty schemes should lead to a fall in poverty. This means that the Secretary of State and the municipalities have to talk about this in order to see how we can properly implement it, so that we can ultimately help people structurally out of poverty. We share the view that we need to do something about poverty, in my view the whole committee now. That will also be a joint activity. However, I do think it is important that you ensure that all kinds of schemes will contribute to the fact that it is no longer attractive to go to work, while we want people to work so that eventually they can be helped structurally out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u120	This is exactly the problem: that the VVD thinks that people do not want to work because the benefit would now be so gold-plated. But the welfare isn't a big deal, so where does the VVD get this? You're setting up welfare workers as if they were profiteers. On the contrary, they are keen to get to work. You make people feel bad all the time, they don't come to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u121	Those are the words of Mrs Voortman. I don't see it that way. I think it is very important that the incentives are designed in such a way that it is indeed rewarding for people to go to work and not to remain dependent on that benefit, which means that they have to reclaim all kinds of different schemes, otherwise they will not be able to feed their children. There we share the view that child poverty is, of course, a major problem and that we must tackle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. Mr Bishop has been authorised by all Members of Parliament to speak earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. After thanking you for the floor, I would like to thank my colleagues for the opportunity they have given to speak earlier on commitments at the beginning of this evening. That would coincide with the expected moment of my contribution. In doing so, I am supposed to do my best to replace Elbert Dijkgraaf, who is still absent because of illness. But it seems to be something contagious. If my voice misses anything, it's not because of the emotion, but because of some tobogganing with airways and prostrations. Mr. Chairman. All groups in the Netherlands are improving. That was the cheerful tone when the coalition chord was handed over. Indeed, the SGP sees different groups that are improving and we do not think of foreign investors first. Look at families, too. It is a good thing that they will receive more financial support in the long term. However, this prospect does not appear to apply to all groups. Think of, for example, the Wajangers who were already dealt with a few times next year with a discount. Think of the modal one-earner families, which, instead of a small plus that was previewed last September, are facing a 0.2% decrease in purchasing power, according to today's letter. Many disabled people are in tension about abolishing labour costs subsidies, which are going to lead to a fall in income. I think that this needs to be clarified quickly. Today, I would like to begin by calling for attention to be paid to three groups which are barely receiving attention, but which are or may be in trouble. Vulnerable groups. First of all, families with children studying in higher education. You'll only have a son or daughter who's a year ahead of peers and goes to college as a 17-year-old. If you were a mom or dad, you'd have a tendency to walk with pride next to your shoes. But you leave that out of your head, because you've already had to sell those shoes to pay for your daughter's or your son's studies. A little figuratively, huh? Those parents have to hold their hearts financially, however happy the Minister of Education is with excellent students. They not only lose child benefit when the 17-year-old goes to university, but also the child-related budget and the single parent discount. The scholarship for lower incomes doesn't really make sense. Parents with an income of €30,000 are declining by €1,150 and single parents with an income of €46,000 are declining by over €5,000. And to their surprise they also discover that parents of students in the MBO of the same age receive child benefit. It is therefore seen as a punishment for entering higher education as a 17-year-old, while these children save the government's education expenditure. This cannot be explained, but I would like to offer the Minister the opportunity to do so. A second group that is in trouble are parents who have to use childcare because of a social or medical need, for example when the man struggles with psychological problems. The average parent can apply for a child care allowance, which is even increased. However, for parents with social or medical problems, it is still a bitch. They have to make efforts to obtain financial support from the municipality, while, as a necessity, they are already penalised for thousands of euros in our tax system. Municipalities often appear to be limited to minimum incomes in this policy. It is really the world on its head that for a family in which the locks are going well open, while families who are already in trouble can only get a little subsidy with little hope and a lot of wrestling. The SGP therefore wants these parents to be treated equally with the revision of childcare funding. I'm asking for a commitment to that. The SGP welcomes the Minister's intention to reduce the burden on employers by reducing the payment of wages. However, this should be done through a higher premium for small employers. The SGP is curious as to how the financial picture will ultimately work out for them. Does this mean, for example, that employers who themselves bear the risks to sick workers are going down? The SGP also considers that contributions for incapacity for work should be proportionate to the length of the employment relationship. Employers understandably see it as unfair that they have to pay ten years of high contributions for workers who have only just had a fixed contract. Is the government prepared to take this into account in the further development and development of the plans? Then I come to my second point: rules and red tape. The SGP calls for attention to be paid to the position of the older unemployed. They often have to send hundreds of letters, while the chances of success are almost zero in advance. When will the intended relaxation of the application requirement be implemented? Will the cabinet also consider whether further tailor-made work is possible for 60-plussers in order to avoid pointless obligations as much as possible? I have hesitated for a moment to say this, because it is also my personal opinion, but I am speaking on behalf of the group, so that is why. This is not a conflict of interest or anything. It's very sensitive these days, isn't it? So I'm just trying to be very careful! When it comes to job opportunities, does the Minister want to identify whether small and medium-sized enterprises are being sufficiently achieved with the reduction in the contribution available for the recruitment of vulnerable workers? Maybe there's still a hit to make, is our impression. When it comes to the obligation to apply for a job, I would also like to draw attention to those who are in debt restructuring. The judge may grant exemption where there is a valid declaration that people are unfit for work. However, it turns out that judges do not take the statements of the UWV that someone has been rejected 100% for granted. My question is: doesn't it really make sense for a legal automation to be created here? Will the rulers shine their light on that? The SGP also likes to give a voice to citizens who lose their sense of red tape when applying for subsidies to the European Social Fund. Really, if you're out of all parts of Kafka, you need to go into applying for subsidies from the European Social Fund. Think, for example, of a project for extra problematic school dropouts. The grant procedure is apparently so demanding that an amount of over €200,000 required as much as €60,000 in consultancy costs. On a grant of €200,000 advice fee of €60,000! The accountability requirements of the SZW Agency are meticulous and formalistic and subsidies are ultimately significantly reduced, while there is no question that the intended results have been achieved. This is one of those kafka-like examples, but it will be more widely known in the ministry. My question to the Minister is to make every effort to improve on these issues. My colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf, has drawn attention to the adverse effects of the ban on deductions on the minimum wage for agriculture and horticulture. Both employers and employees are falling net if tax netting is no longer to be applied. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The SGP believes that the possibility of making exceptions by decision should not only be used for housing, as has been done, but also for this tax set-off. Can the government confirm that there are no legal objections to this? Then there's the final point about the disaster section of rules and red tape. The cabinet wants to speed up the renovation of asbestos roofs. In other respects, we have discussed this on a number of occasions. At the same time, it appears that our adopted motion to allow the use of work boxes on cranes is not yet being carried out. This leaves companies with a lot of uncertainty about the rules. Is the Minister prepared to take this quickly? Finally, the third point is anti-Semitism and radicalisation. I've said a lot about money and rules. Important enough, but there are things that go deeper. Then it is about justice and injustice, for example about the evil of anti-Semitism, the evil that can work very subtlely. Hate and violence focus on Jews but are dressed as aggression against Israel, for example. It is particularly worrying when understanding is being grown for an attack on a Jewish restaurant, a kosher restaurant, because President Trump has made a decision on Jerusalem. You really have to look at reality with one eye so that you can only see this case as destruction. There is also an understandable feeling of double standards when this perpetrator is on the street after two days, while a peaceful Jewish protester who loves to accompany certain demonstrations at some distance with a flag is stuck for six days. There is, however, a need for some additional explanation. Now I realize that this is not directly the area of Social Affairs and Employment, but I am concerned about the issue of integration and integration. These are things that raise questions and indignation in society. We must tackle anti-Semitism consistently and unequivocally at all levels. If there's any mention of soft healers making stinking wounds, it's on this file. The European Parliament has called for the international working definition of anti-Semitism to be used. Will the Minister at least take this as a starting point in his policy? Last point. There are constant concerns about radical Islamist movements that want to teach. Think of the salafistic school in Rotterdam. The Court often looks at the financing of this education, but the Constitution also offers scope to prevent education as such when there are dangers to public order. In the past, there was even a system of recognition. Last year's motion to have the limits of supervision of uncosted education examined has been adopted. The aim of this research was not so much to focus on the education inspection, but rather on that broader public policy supervision. The Minister of Education states that the motion has been dismissed, but there has actually been no investigation. That's what the pieces show. The question for this Minister is to implement this motion in the context of the integration problem. Is he willing to do that? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I now turn to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks. And getting better. A new glass; I don't want some MPs to be taken out! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do my best to hold out. Mr. Chairman. In this room I see something very special. Something so beautiful, so beautiful, that makes me proud of the Netherlands. And no, it's not just that flag back here. In this Chamber I see the Dutch dream, which has made it possible for perhaps the best President of Parliament from our parliamentary history to come from Morocco, that the grandson of a goat guard here can address you as a Member of Parliament, that someone could have kicked it from the Mavo to the Minister. Throughout all parties there are colleagues who were born for a dime, who wanted to end up as a national descendant, and who succeeded. That wasn't a coincidence. I too am inspired by my father. My father was one of those people in the eighties who wanted his son to step forward. He was fired as a factory worker and ended up in welfare. Even now, years later, sometimes to the point, my dad tells me with warmth about how the Netherlands helped him make something of his life, how the government supported him to take care of his sick wife and the upbringing of his children. He was given the opportunity to do an HBO study from the assistance, without having to push others with it and without being saddled with an avalanche of obligations. My dad had to do with a government that said, "If you work hard and work hard, we'll always help you, even if you need a little longer time, even if you're behind; you're a human being and we trust you." How different is that now? The government is increasingly reminiscent of short-term thinking, chasing people and barely looking at anyone's personal circumstances anymore. And so I sometimes wonder: if I were in the same situation as my dad 30 years ago, unemployed, with a lot of worries, what would happen? Could I also raise my children in such a way that they can go one step further? Probably not. Because people who now have to appeal to the government are treated very differently. This new treatment is also accompanied by a new jargon. The government, municipalities and institutions such as the UWV talk about the "wage value" of their "customers." "Customers" who are the "workload" of their "client managers." When you're sick, you're not sick anymore, you're a "care consumer." These terms have been increasingly used by our government since the 1990s. That will undoubtedly have happened with the best intentions, but the result is that that Dutch dream is farther away than ever. Because by people, citizens to be baptized as customers, you as a government express a certain human image, namely that social rights are not so much rights as products that you are not actually entitled to, but that you can consume as a customer. An unreliable customer, who has to leave the store as soon as possible, whether it is the WW, the ggz or the MBO. The relationship between the government and the citizen, excuse, customer is no longer built on the democratic principle of social progress but on distrust. That doesn't suit the Netherlands. GroenLinks wants to revive the Dutch dream. That is why I ask this minister what kind of politician he wants to be: a technocrat who sees the government primarily as a watchdog against cheating clients or a minister who, from ideals, helps people forward because he trusts them? Mr. Chairman. It is expected that there will be major shortages of workers in health care and education. We're not prepared for that yet. Does the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment share GroenLinks' concerns about this? Is he going to ensure that wages in the police, defense and government are raised, so that these sectors become attractive to work in again? I am asking these questions because the Minister has written a letter about the measures he wants to take against these emerging deficits. His letter didn't say anything about wages. Does he think that what is in his letter is sufficient and, if so, what is he basing it on? The Minister also wrote in his letter: "The cabinet is aiming for a breakthrough in lifelong learning." This has been called for years by politicians and employers. We've been working on lifelong learning for decades. How does this minister think he's gonna make a difference? What exactly is his breakthrough? GroenLinks has great concerns............................................................................................................................................................... But that's his responsibility, isn't it? He's the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment, isn't he? My question, therefore, is whether this Minister himself takes the lead in dealing with these deficits. Mr. Chairman. Employment is attracting attention. There will be more jobs, fortunately, but the big question is what jobs will be created: jobs that provide security or even more so-called flex jobs, in which the Netherlands is already the leader in Western Europe? In the meantime, 40% of all workers are covered by the so-called flexible skin. This even reaches 50% among young people. I say "so-called flex," because in line with what I said earlier, I sometimes wonder: since when are you flexible when you don't know if you have a job tomorrow? I think you are extremely inflexible, because it creates much more uncertainty. You can't buy a house. When you're young, you have to postpone life choices, like moving out, living together or having kids. Anyway, if this cabinet doesn't take the necessary steps soon, it's gonna miss a great opportunity to stop those freaked-out flex jobs. That is what the next two points are about. Firstly, our country already knows 1 million people: self-employed people without a pension. Their social insurance systems are not yet in place, whereas many parties had them in their election programme. As far as GroenLinks is concerned,zzp'ers receive a collective disability insurance and we make it easier for them to save for pensions. But the coalition agreement wants to regulate this in a different way: via a minimum hourly rate forzzp'ers. We find that interesting, but does this Minister agree with me that, apart from providing for their livelihood,zzp'ers should also be able to pay their pensions and disability insurance? And, if so, will he take that with him when determining the final minimum rate forzzp'ers? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to self-employed women, GroenLinks is happy. There is now at last a compensation scheme for women who did not receive maternity benefits because they fell out of business between 2004 and 2008. But it is strange that, when the scheme is introduced, these women only have three months to apply for it. The scheme is also far too unknown to the target group. That is why I ask the Minister: how many women are going to make use of this scheme? Is the Minister prepared to bring the regulation to the fore? And, very importantly, can the application period be extended? Those three months are way too short. Second. De Nederlandsche Bank also made an important comment this week on the attracting employment. Wages remain behind, while companies and shareholders benefit. How does this minister view the rise in wages, or rather the lack thereof? Wages really need to go up a lot more. GroenLinks doesn't only think so, says De Nederlandsche Bank. That's what Prime Minister Rutte thinks. In September, he said that wages could rise by up to 3%. Does the Minister agree? And, if so, what is he going to do about it? Is he prepared to bring this necessary wage increase into his discussions with the social partners? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there are also good things about work in the coalition agreement. I don't want to leave a few unnamed. The cabinet wants fair remuneration for payroll employees, so I am counting on support for the initiative law that I submitted together with the colleagues of the PvdA and the SP. The cabinet wants to make flex work less attractive. Yesterday, the Minister was able to read in the newspaper about the initiative paper of GroenLinks, SP and the Labour Party to settle this. I assume the Minister will embrace our note. Mr. Chairman. Then there's pensions. This cabinet has big plans in this area. The Minister calls on the ESC to come up with an opinion quickly. He even wants to reach agreement with social partners within a few months. However, based on recent statements by the trade union movement, the ESC opinion seems to be farther away than closer. Why does the Minister think he'll get out soon with the social partners? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to pensions, GroenLinks is mainly concerned about people in heavy occupations, who start paying much earlier but still have to work longer. That is why the agreement on increasing the age of AOW promised that there would be a system for heavy-duty professions. But there's still no such arrangement. That's just not fair. More and more studies also show that it is unrealistic to expect that people in heavy occupations who have worked from an early age will also have to work longer. In other words, the fact that we in the Netherlands have still not identified which professions can be classified as heavy seems mainly to be politically unwilling. The Economic Institute for Construction makes it clear that it is possible and also the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate has a list of fifteen heavy-duty occupations in construction. Harvard University also has a list. So more than enough handles. Therefore, please, let us not send all those hard-working people into the heavy professions with a brat in the reeds anymore. Let's finally live up to our promise. My question is therefore: is the Minister prepared to actually ensure that there is a regulation for heavy-duty professions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u126	I would like to return to the labour market and the division between fixed and flex. I believe that I share a great deal of Mr Özdil's analysis. He refers to a number of plans of his party, the SP and the PvdA which seem to be very nicely aligned with the coalition agreement. But a balance has been sought in the coalition agreement. We are working on flex, but we are also taking measures to make it more attractive for SMEs to employ people. You ask the coalition: are you willing to think with me about flex measures? I'd like to ask another question. Is GroenLinks also prepared to consider with the coalition how to promote the provision of permanent jobs by taking measures in the area of dismissal rights and pay-as-you-go in the event of illness? As far as I'm concerned, we both have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u127	What is clear and what almost every party in this Chamber recognizes is that the fluctuated flex must be reversed in the Netherlands, that work must become more secure and pay again. Fortunately, Mr Van Weyenberg agrees on this. That is why, together with the SP and the PvdA, we are doing a number of concrete hand-outs to meet these ambitions in the coalition agreement. But it is a misconception to think that we would be totally opposed to flexibilisation. We do not call it flexibilisation but a healthy labour market, where the people who need it themselves and who thrive in it or otherwise. But it shouldn't be a norm, it shouldn't send people into poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u128	It is good that Mr Özdil just admitted that they wanted to implement ideas from the coalition agreement. Mr Van Dijk had just had a little debate with Mr Wiersma. My question concerns something else. I guess I didn't make it clear. I therefore agree with Mr Özdil that there are a number of points where we need to do something about the flex that has been broken, and so does the coalition agreement. But the coalition agreement also states that this will only not help enough if you do not also make that permanent job more accessible, so that the SMEs will certainly dare to offer a permanent job again. So we are also taking measures on the right of dismissal and on the payment of wages in the event of illness. You asked the coalition, I'm asking you something now. Are you prepared to think about that, too? 'Cause I think you should do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u129	I can answer this question as follows. I do not think it would be wise for us to be able to make it easier for people to be fired by a side-way if we want to combat flex. I don't think that's the right step. In an own-initiative paper that we submitted together with the SP and the PvdA, we take another measure: raising the employer's WW premium for flexible contracts in relation to fixed contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Van Weyenberg, second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you for that, Mr President. That measure is also in the coalition agreement. I am glad that you agree with the coalition that this is a good measure. You often talk about outstretched hands. Now I'm actually trying to seduce you to the opposite. I'd like the same thing: to join you in tackling flex. But the Work and Security Act has shown that that doesn't help if you don't make that permanent job more accessible. Now I get the impression you're shutting the door. I'd be sorry to hear that. I hope that Mr Özdil will see if there is some movement on his side in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u132	GroenLinks will never close the door to achieve those shared ambitions. But GroenLinks will never leave the door open if by a side road those ambitions are opposed anyway. The working people in the Netherlands have already paid the price enough. It's time to make things better for them. So we shouldn't make it easier to fire them, or let them go backwards in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u134	Finally, Mr President. For GroenLinks, it is crucial that work returns to pay, that jobs provide security and that the hope for a better future for our children, who are dreaming of the Netherlands, comes back to life. I hope this Minister shares that ambition. I look forward to keeping an eye on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u135	I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman, also on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad to have a debate here today with this new Secretary of State. We've known each other since we were spokesmen at the hospital together. Her social liberal sound, the focus on self-direction and emancipation of people, including people with disabilities, appealed to me. I therefore hope for constructive cooperation. Because, Mr President, the coalition agreement has so far promised little good. The social sound is hardly to be found in that. Although the cabinet promises that all Dutch people will improve, this does not apply to one group: people with disabilities. The Wajong for people with working capacity goes from 75% to 70% of the minimum wage. People can go backwards for $80 a month. The cabinet is full of economic prosperity, has 1.4 billion left over for large companies, but 45 million for people with disabilities is too much to ask. This makes it a conscious choice to allow these people to lose their income as the only ones in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants to reverse this measure and has therefore signed the amendment on this issue. The question is why this cabinet chooses this measure. Yes, it is a measure introduced by the previous cabinet of VVD and PvdA and always defended by Secretary of State Klijnsma. And it wasn't necessary then either, because if you really want to, 45 million is somewhere to be found. The only substantive argument that has been put forward so far is that work must pay off. We just heard this in the input of the VVD. But how is it possible that part of the working Wajongers are also getting worse because of the discount? I'll give you a simple math example. A 24-year-old disabled person under the Wajong, who works and earns €500 gross per month, now receives €1.267.48. That's pay plus gross supplement on the Wajong. In 2018, his income drops to €1,196,78. That is a decline of over €70. In this example work therefore pays less than before. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. Is that what this is all about? And then the new cabinet also comes up with the pay dispensation. The Secretary of State tried to reassure us with a letter last week, but that has not yet been achieved. GroenLinks wants equal pay for equal work, with equal rights. I would like to remind the Secretary of State of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, to make it more specific, Article 27 (1): we'recognize the right of persons with Disabilities to work, on an equal footing with others'. But with the pay dispensation, people are confronted with the fact that they are not equal to their colleagues every time through their pay slip. You make employees feel like they're not entirely part of it. And you bring them under the strict welfare regime, while these people just work. Our wages aren't adjusted either because our partner also has an income or happens to have a well-stocked account? Why should this apply to disabled people? Is that the Secretary of State's intention? Is that her idea of an inclusive labour market? Does she actually support the UN Convention? Mr. Chairman. The pay dispensation seems to be the result of yet another good employer lobby. It doesn't get any easier for anyone, except for employers. We were just talking about it with the VVD. But even for them, it is the question of whether it will be easier, because different target groups and arrangements will continue to exist. For employees it becomes more difficult anyway, because they get their income from more different jars. If you have to choose less administration for employers or less administration for workers with disabilities, do you have to choose the person who cannot hire someone to do the administration, namely the worker? I would like an answer to this question. In addition, the subsequent set-off can lead to people having to pay back large sums later. That increases the risk of debt. In short, with regard to GroenLinks, the pay dispensation is contrary to the rights of people with disabilities, does not contribute to an inclusive society and makes it more complicated for a vulnerable group. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will withdraw this miserable plan and that instead she will table with social partners and interest groups to work together to find a solution that is workable for everyone. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? I'm on the Participation Act. My colleague, Mr Özdil, has already mentioned the lack of confidence in the social security system. The Participation Act, introduced under the responsibility of Secretary of State Klijnsma, is one of the most visible manifestations of that mistrust as far as GroenLinks is concerned. It's the strictest welfare law ever, a law that assumes that people with benefits are consciously out to cheat, profit and abuse our system. But that's not the way I look at the world. I'm assuming people like to work and want to make a living. That's what you need to encourage. I think the Secretary of State and I should be able to find each other on this point. Unfortunately, I have so many examples of people who are not treated as a person with abilities and a story of my own, as a potential fraud and profiteer. I mention the example of the lady who took care of her demented mother and used her debit card for that. She has to repay almost €30,000, because it was said that you could have used your mother's money to support yourself, so you only pay back two years of assistance. That's not supposed to happen, is it? But in the Participation Act, you're guilty unless you can prove otherwise. I don't think that's gonna make anyone any better: municipalities aren't, and people with benefits are definitely not. If you make people feel bad all the time, they're not gonna get to work any easier. I therefore believe that you should trust people instead of distrust. Does the Secretary of State share this vision with me? And is she also willing to give the municipalities the confidence to look much more specifically at the people and to see what does and what doesn't work? In other words, is the Secretary of State prepared to take on the Participation Act and make it a lot more social? Mr. Chairman. I told you, I hope I can work constructively with this Secretary of State. One issue on which we could do this well is the problem of poverty and debt. The cabinet clearly considers this important, given the large amount of text in the coalition agreement. But that text deserves to be filled in. There will be programmed agreements, more cooperation and a new approach. I'm gonna take it a lot deeper. We must not only stick plasters, but also tackle the real causes of poverty and debt. That means, among other things, that people have to have enough income to make ends meet. That is not the case at the moment. Hundreds of thousands of children are still growing up in poverty. And what does the Cabinet do? That increases child support. Millionaires also get €85 per year to raise their children. So that doesn't reduce inequality. The Nibud calculated that a single person in the assistance with a child only gains €15, while it is so important for children in poverty that their parents' financial position is also improved. There should also be enough money for food, living and a winter coat. This is also one of the recommendations made by the Children's Ombudsman in her recent report. GroenLinks therefore believes that the 250 million extra for family allowances in the government agreement should go to the child-related budget, so that the money ends up with the families who really need it. I'm considering tabling a motion on this. In addition, it remains a problem that there are many schemes for families in poverty, but that it is difficult to reach the people for whom that money is. There is also often a threshold to apply for it. It should also be easier for municipalities to strengthen the income position of parents. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider the possibility of category assistance for this group? Then the money can be used more easily where it is needed. It also saves bureaucracy. Given the VVD's remark that she too wants to tackle child poverty, I am counting on warm support. Finally. We have often questioned the previous Secretary of State about the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am very curious to hear the opinion of this new Secretary of State on this matter. Does she agree with GroenLinks that every child is entitled to social security? Does it therefore believe that the Netherlands should also embrace Article 26 of this Treaty? Because the Netherlands is now one of the few countries, or perhaps even the only country, that does not embrace this article. The Netherlands has made a reservation on this: a reservation on a child's right. Does the Secretary of State wish to examine whether there is a link between the large number of children growing up in poverty and this reservation to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child? Then another cause of debt: the government itself. A signal I have often heard is that public authorities themselves are often the most difficult partners to work with in a friendly way. Where other creditors participate in a joint arrangement, the government as a preferred creditor may waltz through all of them in order to claim the money first. As a result, other creditors are less willing to participate in a friendly journey, because they know that they are only in the last place. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether this preferential status of the government can be adjusted? I also wonder whether it is not time for a big change, because at the moment companies are making a profit with people's debts. You can see that in debt collection agencies, in bailiffs and in directors. The market forces in the system create a perverse incentive to squeeze people who already have nothing even further. At the end of the day, we will have to solve this again with poverty reduction, mental health care and social care. How much does all that cost? Should we not take an example of Sweden, for example, where bailiffs, collectors and debt relief workers work together in one institution? Because in the end, it's about getting people out of debt and getting the chance to build their lives again. Finally, I have a number of shorter questions. I have fought for years with, among others, D66-Kamerlid Van Weyenberg for the renewal of child care. This should be linked to education in integrated child centres and based on the best interests of the child; a development right. With these leaders in particular, GroenLinks hopes that we will be able to take steps in this direction, because the coalition agreement does nothing about it. What are the government's plans in this area? I come to the position of women in the labour market, because it is not doing well. For example, the difference in pay between men and women has increased over the past year, the number of women in top positions is still pitifully low and pregnant women are still more likely not to be renewed. These are all examples of labour market discrimination. The government agreement states that the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination will be followed up, which will include consideration of pregnancy discrimination. That's a good thing. Will there also be proposals in that action plan to reduce the gender pay gap? I'd like a response. In short, Mr President, under this cabinet, inequality in the labour market is increasing: inequality between men and women, between people with and without work restrictions and between fixed and flex, while, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, everyone should participate equally. This is what we will be following closely the cabinet over the coming period. We will also come up with proposals. Finally, I would like to offer two applications. They've just been offered to us at the Square by a number of Wajangers. They took action there together with the FNV. I would like to offer one to the Secretary of State and one to your chairman, as representative of all of us, to ensure that people with disabilities come to work. Deal's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u137	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid to take a sip of water, but I'll do it anyway. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, we stood here discussing the last Social Affairs budget of Minister Asscher. That was over a year ago. This budget treatment was a kind of final report for the Rutte II cabinet when it comes to the state of the labour market. That debate gave a mixed picture. It was clear to most groups that the economy was starting to attract, and at the same time many groups in this house felt discomfort about the growing gap and division in the labour market. You saw that feeling later in most election programs. Several parties each made their own and often different proposals to do something about this. But the great consensus was in the need to do something about it and to achieve a fairer labour market. Many of the debates that we had in the campaign as Social Affairs spokesmen were also about this. During the formation, an ambitious package was agreed, precisely on the labour market, on the gap between fixed and flex and on the prospect of more people in permanent employment. Last month we held a hearing on the platform economy in the Lower House. There were a lot of spokesmen there. During that hearing, it became clear again how necessary these arrangements are. During that hearing, I had to take a displeasure look back at the quote I started my contribution to last year's budget debate. I then started with the words of Syb Talma, the founder of the CNV and former Minister of the ARP at the beginning of the 20th century. Those words, as they turned out during the hearing, are still up-to-date. He said, "Worker and employer have a moral relationship among themselves, because the worker is not a living machine and the employer is not a banknote or a bond, but because both are men who have a vocation in common." But if you look at the constructions that we also saw in the hearing on the platform economy, you cannot necessarily say that the relationship between the worker and the employer is becoming more moral. Last week the Minister sent us his planning letter containing a timeline for the implementation of the agreements we made in the government agreement. I wonder if the Minister can indicate in which of the measures he announces there, he himself has the most confidence in reducing the gap and making the labour market fairer and also in the fight against employers' burdens and risks on employees. A matter of concern following that hearing, at least with me, is the moment when, for example, we are going to tackle payrolling and the later moment when we are going to tacklezzp-constructions. It's both important. But take, for example, in the discussion we had with Deliveroo, on which from left to right in the Chamber was quite critical in that hearing. There is a risk that in the interwar period not only the fixed contract will get closer, which is the goal, but that more companies will also go the way of Deliveroo. I would like a response from the Minister in relation to the CPB report published last year on this subject. I am also curious to see what the Minister is prepared to do to tackle bogus structures in the platform economy. We received a letter in which ZZP Nederland wonders whether a construct like of Deliveroo can be described as "malicious." A platform like Temper has a lot of aspects of a temporary agency, but legally it is not. The Minister refers in the letter we received from the hearing at the request of Mr Van Dijk to an investigation into the job economy that is running and that we will have this spring. Does this mean that the Minister is in favour of stricter enforcement? I think there is a reason for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u141	An investigation is fantastic. We do get that this spring. But, in Mr Heerma's speech, do I also hear an appeal to the Minister for immediate enforcement in the case of Deliveroo, because this clearly is not right and cannot be right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr Van Kent chooses his own words. I would like to make an argument for the Minister and refer to, for example, ZZP Netherlands, which suggests that there is malice. I'm asking if he's pre-sorting for firm enforcement. I also suggest to him that it is necessary to start to enforce against these kinds of phony structures, especially in the platform economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u143	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u144	With the booming economy, we also see sectors where there is a sharp cut. We know that in the coming years there will be a shortage of people in education, care and technology. At the same time, we see a very strange situation for many older people in the labour market. The cabinet is now officially talking about 45-plussers. We started at 55, then it turned 50 and now it's 45. This morning, someone said, "Well, you're 40 years old in the labour market." A colleague of the SGP was just self-conscious at 60. The Minister and I became 40 during formation, so some self-interest applies to me as well. The 45-plussers stay in the card box while there are such shortages in sectors. That's weird. In my view, part of the problem lies in the lack of substance of the 'lifelong learning' adage, of the timely commitment to retraining and further training, towards a job in which there is a future perspective. In my view, structural responses to the major issues of sustainable employability and workable work until you reach the AOW age are also present here. I think this should be measured over the next few years. The coalition agreement is also taking steps there. The word "balance" has already been mentioned here. That balance's in here, too. The possibilities of reducing investment in training to a transition fee can be an incentive to increase training. It is also good that the cabinet will work on the individual learning account. Mr Van Weyenberg and I have tabled joint motions on this subject on a number of occasions. There has always been broad support for this in the Chamber. The cabinet is working on it. That is a very good thing. What does the Minister expect in this context of consultation with the social partners? That's what he's referring to. There is a great responsibility on the part of employees and, above all, employers for collective agreements and the involvement of R&D funds. Is the Minister prepared to discuss the sensitive subject of emotion in those talks? This cannot be separated from the smarter handling of sustainable employability. And what will the Minister do if the social partners do not really want to focus on making workable work for older people in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you for the words of Mr Heerma on Deliveroo. We've known each other a long time, but I was just looking. We need to maintain together, from left to right. We need to find out if that's possible, and we need to do it as soon as possible. My question is about that group that's having a hard time right now. The FNV has said in letters to the Chamber and in consultation with Mr Koolmees that we must also do something about the group that does not get the pension. I hear Mr Heerma say: we have to invest in education. Yeah, of course we should. But should we not also consider forms of generational pacts, part-time pensions and flexible AOW? If the Minister can do so, there will be room for discussion with the trade union movement in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u146	When I look at the Minister's letter and the letter from the FNV, I have the impression that those two are the minister who offers the most space. The outstretched hand shown by the Minister in several places in his letter is quite clear. There's even sometimes the call to do something. For me personally, a number of things that Mr Van Dijk says touch on things that I myself have said. They appeal to me. I've always been very critical of that flexible AOW myself. As an opposition party, too, I have been critical of this, because I see a very high risk. There are also left-wing parties who have always been very critical about it. For example, Mr Ulenbelt was always very critical. Mr Van Kent, who is a bit of a successionist of Mr Ulenbelt, I see nodding. It is being considered in a variety of ways, because there is a risk that the scheme will work out particularly well for people who do not need it. I am very excited about some of the issues raised by Mr Van Dijk. I believe most of this is the structural solution to lifelong learning, which must be put into practice. The cabinet is making a good start on this with more money for retraining and further training, but the social partners also have a responsibility to pick up the glove. That is not just a one-sided approach to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u147	May I conclude, then, that there is more than just education possible? Mr Heerma is not subject to the flexible AOW, but there are several possibilities for him to look at forms of earlier cessation of work or perhaps a day less work at sectoral level, making it easier for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u148	I use the term "workable work." This term is widely used in Flanders. How do you make it possible for people to keep working? I believe that retraining, a job in which you can continue to work, is really the best tool. At the same time, I have seen Mr Van Dijk think constructively in various debates over the last few weeks. When he comes up with good ideas in his term, I always want to listen to them nicely. But I keep saying that the government's outstretched hand was very clear in the coalition agreement, and so was the letter we received from the minister. The social partners certainly have a responsibility to tackle issues such as lifelong learning, collective agreements and R&D funds. They should take that, too. That is what I say to employers; it is not just with trade unions. As far as the labour market is concerned, I would like to touch on the proposals we are going to make as a coalition on training, which retrain, but I have a question in between as regards entrepreneurs with disability insurance who have become disabled before raising the age of AOW, but also as regards those who are now insured, where there is a discussion about whether insurers are doing enough to make them change their policies, whether there are opportunities. I'm curious. If you're talking about the first group, there's the discussion about the burning house. Insurance companies say this isn't our problem. But those people do have a problem. In the second case, the question is whether insurers are doing enough to allow those entrepreneurs, includingzzp'ers but it is wider, to adapt that policy, and to do so in a proper way. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to sit down with insurers to discuss both problems and to report back to the Chamber on them. I'll get back to that education. I think it is very good to give an extra boost to job opportunities for older people in promising sectors through training. When you look at the sector plans, you see that there is mainly underutilisation. Where a choice has been made earlier, I believe, on the initiative of Mr Van Weyenberg, to do more on educational vouchers, we can see that they are being used. The last letter from the Minister does say that there are doubts as to whether the money has been spent effectively in all cases. In some cases, people are not even reachable to check whether it is spent effectively. But there are opportunities in that corner. That is why, together with the spokesmen of the coalition parties, we have taken the initiative to use the under-exhaustment of the sector plans along that line. There's been a weird mismatch. Sectors are crying out for staff but they can't find it Companies don't know where to get the staff from. At the same time, there are the elderly, 45-plussers or 40-plussers, who just sit in those bins because they don't have the right skills for the jobs. That is the reason for the coalition party initiative to make money available for this. We see that this can solve both problems. We give people a job opportunity instead of having to apply without a chance. We give employers the chance to have qualified staff. I am also curious to see what the Minister sees as additional opportunities for regional vocational training funds. For example, in the province of Overijssel they are working on this in the region of Twente. That's what the county, municipalities and UWV do. R&D funds are also participating, as are rocks. I understand that this also works in the province of Gelderland and the province of Drenthe. At regional level, this is done for exactly the same purpose as we have, namely to resolve the mismatch. That is what money is being allocated for, and it is being increased together. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to actively support such regional initiatives. It doesn't have to be financial, because they have financial resources of their own. But they do ask for support from the national level. That could be in the form of a pilot; that is a suggestion. But perhaps the Minister will see other ways to actively support this. I think the colleague from the VVD mentioned Limburg in this context; I forgot that province. I can see her putting her thumbs up. There are good initiatives in provinces. The initiative in Overijssel was first known to me, but you will notice that this is a broad living theme that can be supported. Just now, the debate was about the flexible shell. With the tightness of the labour market, a new movement is emerging with regard to the flexible skin. Chip manufacturer ASML has indicated to halve its flexible shell by offering all kinds of people a fixed contract. Does the Minister see this trend developing wider? Does he think that the measures we agreed on in the government agreement on the extended probation period and on premium differentiation I know that a number of opposition parties who have enthusiastically picked up can be an incentive to pursue this trend? I want to move on to my "integration" block, but I see Mr Van Dijk getting up. So I think I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have a rather simple question. I'm looking for the ratio behind the extended probation period for permanent contracts. The Netherlands is doing better. There are jobs left. Still, we're gonna extend the probation period. What's the ratio behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u150	We have included in the coalition agreement various measures which we believe can reduce the gap between firm and flexible. They increase the chance for people to get a fixed contract and they lower the threshold for employers to offer such a fixed contract. The same applies to this measure. We believe that this, in the package that we have agreed and which contains all kinds of measures, can make a positive contribution to encouraging employers not to go tozzp-structures but to offer people a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u151	My fear is that the extension of the probationary period will actually create a new construction. In fact, we know of certain sectors, which Mr Heerma also knows of, which use these types of structures. There's a danger that after five months you'll walk away without rights, or actually get fired, and then be re-appointed for five months. Is Mr. Heerma willing to look into that? Does he also see that we have to prevent such a revolving door construct with all of us? I do not think that is the intention of this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u152	I could come to a discussion with Mr Van Dijk about the question: what constructions do we find the worst? But constructions are never good. I think the goal is for people to get a permanent contract more often. We have also talked about other constructions, in which we no longer work with a contract. At the same time, as regards Mr Van Dijk's concern, let the Minister himself reflect on this. I think that, in conjunction with the other measures, this really brings the fixed contract closer. That is also the aim of the coalition agreement. I understand the concern that Mr Van Dijk has from his position, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u153	First of all, for order: I understood that Mr Heerma moved on to the "integration" block, but I have not yet heard the word "Wajong." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u154	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u155	Then I'd like to ask my question. Otherwise, you'll say, "I'll come back to that" or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u156	Will you come back to that, Mr. Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u157	No. My colleague will be returning to child care, the Participation Act and poverty and debt in no time, but if you have a question about the Wajong: come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u158	We were on the Square this afternoon with a protest campaign by the union and a number of Wajangers standing there. They are not happy with the Wajong discount that has been agreed before, in a previous cabinet. It's about 50 million euros. They want that discount undone. The deal was at the time: we're going to get a job and then that discount can be justified. The biggest thing these people are so angry about is that those jobs didn't get there at all. And the job agreement with which a quota was to be set has been postponed. Don't you think that's unfair, Mr. Heerma? And would you like to think with me if we could at least cancel that discount for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u159	First of all, Mr Van Dijk's timeline: a lot has changed both in the debate on re-examination and in the discussion on pay dispensation. That goes back to a former cabinet. These measures were largely also included in the Works Act. We were responsible for that as CDA. Those measures were necessary because the Wajong had grown enormously. They followed an earlier law, the Work and Assistance Act. When we were government parties, we, as CDA, supported those measures. I do not think these measures are unfair. I think they can be defended, just when you see what we have finally changed across the board in Mrs Klijnsma's Act of Participation. So I see very little in postponing that discount. In addition, as an opposition party too, I am looking at Mr Van Dijk with a slant...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u160	Me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u161	No, I'm sorry, Mr. Van Dijk, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. As an opposition party, too, we have remained in favour of the measures that we, as a government party, stood for. Mr Jasper van Dijk can say here that the SP remained critical, but the PvdA stood before it for five years when it had government responsibility. For the FNV, the social agreement of 2013 agreed on a harder re-examination, which was reversed in the autumn agreement by the C3 of then, Christian Union, D66 and the SGP. So different actors have taken different positions on this. As a government party, we have supported this and I have stood by it as an opposition party. I'm doing that again now that I'm back here on behalf of a government party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u162	Colleges we follow at the university, but here we have a political debate. I don't really care what was done and who did what, then and then. I am concerned about your political position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u163	That's what I gave you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u164	You can say here that you found something five years ago and that you are proud that you still think so, but why don't you look at those Wajongers we saw today, who you weren't with, a little cowardly, and who are furious because the cabinet and the politicians have decided to postpone the job quota for a year, but to keep the discount in line. Where is this social-Christian humanity of the CDA? Why don't you say it's reasonable to postpone the discount for one year? We have a great cover for that. Join us, Mr. Heerma!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u165	I'm talking about my own answers, and I think that timeline is relevant. I have also expressed my position in that reply. We agreed to this as a coalition party in Rutte I. As an opposition party, we have remained in favour of this. That's what I'm doing as a government party now. The following applies: if the re-evaluation shows that you are sustainable without work power, you keep 75%. If you have power, you go to 70%. That was part of the plans two cabinets ago, it has been part of the plans of the previous cabinet for five years, and it is not new now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr Van Dijk. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u167	I'll keep saying the first names. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u168	Reference was made to Rutte II and rightly so. The VVD and the Labour Party then concluded the social agreement with the FNV, with employers, with CNV and so on. But that was a different time. Then 60 million a day went out more than it came in. Now, four years later, we live happily, also through Rutte II, in a much better time with economic prosperity and huge amounts of money that we can spend on people. That is why since March, since we have been here in the Chamber and since the outgoing cabinet, we have been calling as the Labour Party: let us solve this now, at least for a year because we know Mr Jasper van Dijk said it already that those jobs are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u169	In the market sector, they are there anyway. Now Mr Gijs van Dijk I wanted to say to Jasper van Dijk that times have changed. But what has changed most primarily is the position of the Labour Party. The need to do something about the Wajong as a result of the 2004 Work and Assistance Act was there. This need was not cyclical in nature; it was also structural in nature. The Labour Party has strongly opposed this. When they were government parties, they defended it. They made a social agreement where there was a tougher re-examination than in the law they wronged when they were opposition parties. They defended that until the last minute. And now that they're in the opposition, they're going to attack other parties who've always defended that as an opposition and as a coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u170	We can keep up this political jousting, but as far as I'm concerned, we don't. As far as I am concerned, as a chamber, we are going to solve this, just for those Wajangers who have taken action here and for the many who are watching. It's about big amounts for small incomes. As far as I'm concerned, we're going over the political past together. That's what we do, including the trade union movement. Let's finally get this over with. That is my appeal to you and also to the other coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u171	I hope, of course, that something will happen to support our amendment, but there is also another possibility. This morning was the debate on the Navy note. The Navy's note says there's money left on the Wajong. 27.1 million is left over. In the Spring paper, it can be examined whether this is structural. Is the CDA prepared to spend that amount on not letting this cut continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u172	Once again, in Rutte I, as a coalition party, we defended the Law's works according to their ability. It included this measure, which was also needed because of the effects of the Work and Assistance Act on the Wajong. I find that discount justifiable, even if you look at all the other groups, including the group that is now in the Participation Act and that has no past in the Wajong. And no, I stood for that as an opposition party, too. We have had these discussions here, even when I was still in opposition. I still stand for that as a coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u173	Apart from what you think of the policies of the past few years, one of the effects of this is that more people are now pouring out of the Wajong. That's why there's money left, 27.1 million. Then we're already pretty upset with that 45 million. Why wouldn't you use that money to make sure that the people who are still in the Wajong don't have to go backwards in their income? Why wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mrs Voortman has been very consistent in this reasoning, so I will not blame myself for making the Labour Party in the direction of GroenLinks. But I have also been consistent in standing up for this measure, because I think it can be defended because of the need for the whole package that was agreed around both the Wajong and what was first the Act working according to ability and then became the Participation Act. If I stand in front of that, it will not change because there will be budgetary space in the Navy's note. I understand the question, but that doesn't change my point of view. Mr President, I shall continue. In the last week, it was again clear that the integration process was not going well: delays in exams and large groups of newcomers who ended up in the benefit boxes with the municipalities. The recent report by the SCP on the position of Somalis in the Netherlands shows a worrying picture: poor language management, poor labour market position, many welfare benefits and young children to whom this disadvantaged position is passed on. Last week, during the first term of the AO Integration, the Minister undertook to produce, in the short term, an impact of this guided access to social security. I think that is a good thing and it is very much needed. Wider than just integration, the way we look at integration is to keep it under review. For I think that too long indifference has been the norm, but that this has been called tolerance. The result is, above all, that there has been a lot of discussion about the identity and culture of people who come here and that there has been too little attention to the identity and culture of the country they had to absorb. Fortunately, the coalition agreement contains measures and steps to pay more attention to our history and our culture and identity. It's in different places. I think that's necessary, because if you emigrate somewhere, if you emigrate to the Netherlands, you don't just change territory. You're also changing nations, and that's a very difficult process. I have to say the words of Mr Özdil make me very claim. I shall return to that at the end of my speech. Because as he reminded me this morning or this afternoon when we spoke, good ideas sometimes have many fathers and mothers. But I'll get back to you on that. The process of emigration, which is moving towards a new nation, is difficult and fails without shared values, without a sense of "we." This realization revolves around the thinking of the French philosopher Renan. His work has recently, also internationally, become more and more present in the picture, which is seen as a pragmatic plea for enlightened patriotism. He states that formed by a common possession of a rich legacy of memories and out of today's sense of solidarity and the desire to live together, a nation is formed. Look at the events in Rotterdam, for example, this spring, but also last weekend, that pushed us again with the noses on the facts, which often happens with too integrated girls, in response to them. Then you can see that there are still many bad aspects and how topical this discussion is. Big questions fly back and forth here in society. Allochtone young people are wondering: can we be here, do we belong? Society in turn asks: do you want to be here, do you want to be part of it? The fact that Renan offers many answers to these kinds of issues and to the deeper identity issue shows that increasing attention is being paid to this discussion. We are seeing this debate in all kinds of political movements, even in currents where this has been a major political taboo for many years. Social-liberal thinker Martha Nussbaum I know that she also enjoys a lot of support in D66-circle, for example, in her book Political emotions explicitly argues for the teaching of patriotism in education. In social democratic circles, too, more and more is being written about letting go of more utilitarian politics and moving towards more communitarism. Recently, Paul Collier, in a large international social democratic magazine, made a plea for the importance of commitment, belonging somewhere, belonging together, the desire to live together. That is why Mr Özdil's speech addressed me. We must say goodbye to the real cosmopolitan utilitarianism, because that is the permanent risk of indifference: find out, as long as I have no problem with it. This is accompanied by the slow crumbling of society. That is also what we see on such a bridge in Rotterdam. I'd like, like the American dream, to plead for a Dutch dream. As Mr Özdil also said: a Dutch dream. I understand that colleague El Yassini of the VVD also stands for that Dutch dream. I know that progressive patriotism is also being talked about more and more in PvdA circles. So you can see that in several political parties, in multiple movements, this discussion comes up. The need to want to be here with head and heart, to join this and that desire to live together. Those people also deserve the opportunity to participate and be part of it. As far as I am concerned, perhaps we are different about that again, because then you will also have to deal with integration requirements, and this is about being more compelling and harder on the one hand against people who do not want to participate, but you will also have to act clearly when people want to participate but do not get that chance. Action against discrimination, action against what came out last weekend about exposing. Fortunately, the cabinet picked that up, because that's very bad. Those girls want to participate, and for that very reason they are picked out and attacked on social media, or even destroyed. I would like to conclude with an example. I come to that because Mohamed Ajouaou in Trouw started a discussion about the task of the Muslim community in the Netherlands to create a register for imams. He also refers to Belgium, where there is such a register and where there are codes of conduct for imams. It just says: you have to abide by the law and you can't argue against public order. I find it interesting that this discussion in the Muslim community is also increasingly taking place in the Netherlands. The need to separate the chaff from the corn, have self-cleaning ability, choose to be active here, for polderimams, if you will. That argument was also made earlier by Yassin Elforkani from the CMO, for example. This isn't a government job, but I think it's a good move when you're talking about with your head and wanting to participate your heart here. That is why I would like to conclude with a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There he was, sitting at a table in a bald rental house in a West Brabants village. He wrote grieving cards for his dying wife. Deep in debt, a small social network but luckily with a neighbor who occasionally helped him. A lot of shit. The municipality, the IRS, the necessary organizations... all were nice people. Everyone wanted to think along, but when the point came true nothing happened. It was an impressive work visit. On the way back in the car, I was thinking about my dad. It could get pissed if he called a company's customer service and got a choice menu. He got four choices, but his problem wasn't there. After he had hesitated for too long which number he would have to enter, the connection was disconnected. Then he became angry: "I just want a human on the line that solves my problem!" But if your problem doesn't fit in the menu, you can't be helped. We are such a special country. At the table between the mourning cards, that became painfully clear to me again. Everything is so perfectly organized. Who is entitled to what, what procedures should be followed: it is all certain. Lawfulness as the highest good. It is not even the intention, but man is often forgotten. Bodies and governments act like the customer service my father could get so mad about. The horn makes a friendly voice sound, but the computer decides whether or not to help you. A human needs security of existence and perspective, the ability to make something of life. We all know: besides food, drinking and a roof over your head, man needs an arm around him and a reason to get out of bed. Science has been telling us for years: those who are forced to live at home are more often lonely, unhealthy, unhappy and sicker than those who do participate in society. Literally everything is better than sitting at home: studying, temporary work, voluntary work, part-time work, even work you don't really feel like doing. But the best thing is paid labor. Knowing that you take care of yourself and the people you love is doing well. That's what a human being should get the chance to do. In one way or another, we are not doing well enough at the moment, even though we invest millions and millions of euros in it and there are objectively enough vacancies. People like to work, but apparently we're making things too complicated. The coalition agreement contains measures to help break this deadlock. One of these measures, which is a great deal to be done, is the possibility of pay dispensation. At the moment, the Secretary of State is preparing and calculating the plans. For the CDA, cross-compliance is leading. Firstly, it must be rewarding and easy for employers to hire people, otherwise they will not do it. Secondly, it must also be financially profitable for employees to start working at all times. Thirdly, the administrative burden for workers should not be too high. Fourthly, changes should not apply to workers covered by other schemes, as is already the case. And fifthly, for people who cannot work within a regular setting, suitable or sheltered work must be available, much more than is currently the case. A number of questions to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the above conditions are met? Secondly, can the Secretary of State indicate when these plans will be drawn up? There are quite a few misunderstandings about pay dispensation. My question is therefore: how is the Secretary of State going to talk to the social partners to get rid of the misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u177	I'm just looking. The five conditions set by Mr Peters are very appealing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u178	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u179	But there's also 500 million cuts. If Mr Peters says that work must pay, I cannot match it, because the 500 million will be taken away from these people, who will not get pensions, social security, all that sort of thing, with pay dispensation. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u180	Look, work has to pay off, Mr. Van Dijk. That's very clear. That is why neat bubbles are made for this. If you're gonna work 10 hours on welfare, you're gonna have to pay. You go to work for five hours, it's gonna pay off. At 20 hours of work, it's gonna pay off. If you can perform better and your wage value gets higher, that's going to pay more. In the current form, where we work with wage costs subsidies, you will of course not receive any assistance. You get a full minimum wage that you don't get in all cases in a new variant.... but that does mean that you have to make quite a number of hours to pay labor. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan has just calculated that this would amount to about 28 hours. So if work wants to pay, this variant is very good as far as I'm concerned. You are right to have money left, partly because you are not going to spend it on people who are not entitled to benefits, for example, and partly because you have fewer employers' costs. But that labor continues to pay, stands at one for me. The money you're not spending, the 500 million you're using to provide sheltered jobs to people who can't work under this scheme. That was my fifth condition. So it's not a cutback. It's money you're gonna bet differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u181	We disagree on that. Let's be clear about that. Still, a question about those sheltered workplaces. There are now about 1,100 places filled out of the 30,000 agreed upon in the social agreement. Already this coalition says 20,000 more. You pay that out of the austerity, the switch to pay dispensation. Why now this step, when employers, municipalities and communities have received many letters, you also say: do not do this, let us go ahead now, and we do not need those sheltered workplaces at all at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u182	Firstly, this is also a question I am going to ask the Secretary of State. How will the Minister ensure that the workplaces are also filled? The second is that those extra workplaces shouldn't be here tomorrow. That is how the austerity was, as you so beautifully call it, and I do not call it 'others bets' there tomorrow either. That's in the phasering until 2026, I think. So those places are needed for people we know exist. Municipalities will have to fill them, too. That is a slow build-up of these workplaces and a slow cut-off of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u184	I have a question about that. How will the Minister monitor that there will indeed be 20,000 extra sheltered workplaces? And on what term is that? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the municipalities actually fill these workplaces? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to use sheltered work as an instrument and not merely as a provision? I can understand that municipalities say: if I have someone in shelter, he is basically in there until his retirement. Can it not be otherwise, namely as an instrument and not as a provision? This enables the municipality to offer flexible routes. And then there's one more question. I am getting signals that until recently young people who have flowed directly into Wajong from practical education are now going to work using a personalised budget. Does the Secretary of State also see this movement and, if so, what is her reaction to it? Then there's labour discrimination. We've already talked about it in the Chamber: if you're applying, you'd better have a criminal record than an Arab surname. You could also draw that conclusion on the basis of recent investigations. It is clear that discrimination in the labour market is a problem. I am pleased that the action plan against labour discrimination will be followed up. I have two questions about that. How will the Secretary of State report on the progress and effects of the Employment Discrimination Action Plan? And how is the Minister going to make a demonstrable contribution to the taking-and-shaming of parties that are badly involved by his predecessor? Then there's child care. Raising is more than feeding. It has to do with socialisation, with space in bondage, with opportunities for children and with safe growing up to be a democratic citizen. Parents can't do that alone. This task is also explicitly in the field of education and childcare. The CDA believes it is important that parents can develop and work, but also that children grow up in a safe and educational environment. We are pleased with the extra money for the childcare allowance. We are pleased that parental participation crèches can continue to exist. We welcome the increase in child support and the child-related budget. We are also pleased that harmonization with children's playroom work can give a great boost to the quality of childcare, but we are concerned about the connection of childcare with education. It is important that education and childcare are closely linked. There's a certain amount of regulation that's interfering here. A task force has been set up to facilitate cooperation between education and reception. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: what is the situation with regard to the follow-up to the opinions contained in the Task Force report? Then there is a very important issue for the CDA: debt and poverty. Over 1 million people in the Netherlands are struggling to make ends meet. Over 400,000 people have problematic debts. That is a cautious estimate, because the figures of the General Court are much higher. Every year, with all our efforts and good intentions, we're not helping 10,000 people clean a slate. Manyzzp'ers do not build up a pension and many do not even guarantee themselves against incapacity for work. The rents and care costs have risen sharply. And child poverty, which Mrs Voortman has already called attention to, is a growing problem. It makes for exclusion and less opportunities. The urgency of an improved debt approach is a priority for all parties in this Chamber. The CDA is therefore pleased and actually quite proud that an ambitious paragraph in this area has finally been included in a government agreement. We are pleased that excesses in lending are being countered and that there will be an end to the accumulation of fines that you cannot pay. If my daughter Mies had to press 50 times for punishment and only reach 40, how much use would it be to yell at her that she now has to press 100 times for punishment? There's no point in that. We are also pleased that the possibilities for payment arrangements are being extended, that collection agencies are being addressed and so on. Then I have two questions for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has promised to produce an impact on debt. My question is when it will come into effect. We would like to have it with a timetable and with concrete actions, so that we can monitor progress closely. For me, and for all of us, I think, dealing with debt is the most important and urgent problem that the coalition can tackle. I'm following it with great interest. The second question to the Secretary of State is: how will it monitor the impact of the policy? That must be done, but without too much bureaucracy. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u185	Mr Peters spoke about combating child poverty. I said myself that it would help municipalities if they were given more opportunities to provide category assistance, especially when it comes to families. My question to Mr Peters is whether he would be open to that. That would be a lot of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u186	It would care about bureaucracy, but it doesn't work on customization. I am not in favour of a category approach, but I am in favour of municipalities giving the subject of debts in every keg and in every contact with the municipality an important position. I'm not in favour of a categoral approach. I'm in favour of customization. Customisation does not necessarily result in more bureaucracy. It makes sure the poverty trap isn't that big. I always want to give debt and poverty a role in contacts with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u187	I'm glad to hear that. My question was not specifically about debt, but about combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u188	That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u189	Poverty would also help if we could improve the income position of parents. It is not a specific school trip or anything else, although it is also very important. The point is that you can say that there are families with children here and I want to be able to choose as alderman to make an arrangement for that so that I do not have to do it all separately. Would Mr Peters ask the Secretary of State to look into this in consultation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u190	Well, I think you just asked that yourself. My view is that income policy really should not lie with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr Peters and I have a warm heart and are working very actively to see how we can deal with the debt problem. Here's what I want to ask you. Last time we saw that the 100 million made available to poor children did not end up where they belonged. There are municipalities that have said: we do not know them, we do not have them and we use them for the general resources. We then asked whether that money could not be recovered and whether we could not identify it. Can I find the CDA on my side of this? If we are to agree in this Chamber on what money should be spent on, then we must make that explicit: only on that and not on anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u192	I think that is quite clear and that is what was in all the agreements. That money is available to those kids, and that's going to be given to those kids, too. It has to be. Our former Secretary of State told me in person: I'm gonna call anyone who doesn't. She even had my cell phone number from when I was alderman. I do not know if the Secretary of State is going to call everyone, but I would like to ask her to make sure that money available to children will also end up with those children, including those municipalities which obviously make different choices. By the way, most municipalities are doing well, with heart and soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u193	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr. Chairman. For debt restructuring, people call on the Wsnp. It will first be checked whether a proper friendly course has been followed. Municipalities sometimes use private parties, either by order or by mandate of the municipality. That went well for years, but by a precise explanation of the law by some judges.... some say: a mistake................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The NVVK wrote a letter on this subject. It's in your possession by now. My question to the Secretary of State is simple: what can she do to remedy this mistake in law as soon as possible? Then social services. In the past few weeks I have done an internship in social care in Utrecht, Amsterdam, Eindhoven and Oosterbeek. In addition to the necessary coordination problems with municipalities and regions, it is particularly striking that almost every client also has financial problems. These problems are sometimes aggravated by the lack of coordination between schemes. I would like to mention an own risk that has to be paid before a benefit is settled, just to give an example. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State outline what specific problems there are in this area in social care? The second question is: can there be a plan to deal with it? Mr. Chairman. Back to the man at the kitchen table in West Brabant. We've made it very complicated for him. Like 180,000 other people, he is now under debt management. Costs: €140 per month. That is EUR 25 million per month; that is EUR 302 million per year, paid by municipalities and imposed by the court. How much cheaper and easier would it be if someone had said to this man a year ago: look, I'll pay your fixed expenses, you get a few hundred euros of living money and that's it. Municipalities happy, people happy and the court happy. People get between the shore and the ship. We're making it way too complicated. Courts and municipalities do not communicate or hardly communicate in this regard. What can the Secretary of State do to change that, to save money and to help people better? Additional money will be made available to combat poverty. That's nice, especially for kids. But it is not so easy to ensure that the money does indeed end up in the right place. Municipalities always got money to fight poverty. Most municipalities do their best, but not all people living in poverty report to the local office. And not all people are found by the congregations. Not surprisingly, therefore, that not all municipalities use the money earmarked for poverty reduction. There were still a lot of things left on the shelf. The following questions have actually been asked just in the event of interruption. How will the Secretary of State ensure that the money already made available to municipalities is properly spent? And when will the Secretary of State come up with a plan for the use of the extra funds? Finally, for my part, a cri du coeur, a cry of hearts. In The Hague, all problems are resolved neatly within the lines of a ministry, along guidelines, along budgets and so on. At least on paper, because every law or rule is invented for a reason and often perfectly logical. But a human life does not go along the lines of ministerial responsibility. In Oss, as far as I'm concerned, it was easy. If there was a problem that could not be understood within one department, I would bring together several officials and come up with a proposal. We can't do that here. The man from my work visit had to do with the Tax Department, with the Department of Work and Income, with other departments of the municipality, with care questions, justice and more. The rules of one service sometimes contradict the other, because rules are rules. Members of Parliament must be able to understand exactly how that can happen, but I cannot really say concrete questions about such situations. I can put them at one ministry, and that can say: from my perspective, it makes sense. And that's what they all say. Secretary of State, are you my point of contact for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I suggest we suspend until 7:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u196	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. We had stayed with Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP Group. I give him the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to learn from our history. If we go back over 100 years in time, we'll see that employees used to have worse. At that time a start was made on the construction of our social security system. Laws and regulations have always been devised to solve the problems. It's called progress. But we see history repeating itself. The snare jars that the guilds once set up to provide the family with an income in the event of disability are much like the bread funds that are now set up by many groups ofzzp'ers. Cornelis Lely of the Liberal Union designed the Accidents Act in 1898, with compulsory insurance against the financial consequences of accidents. Now we see parcel delivery workers but also Deliveroo deliverers in many other places too, there are people who should actually be employees driving around without being insured against the financial consequences of accidents. Drees came in 1947 with the Emergency Old Age Services Act. Later it was Suurhoff who eventually introduced the AOW. A lot of people don't know that. It wasn't Drees. It was Suurhoff who introduced that law. That law would no longer have to be called "poor" and "old" in one sentence. I spoke recently to two street makers in Rotterdam, who had been doing heavy work for almost 50 years. They started working when they were 15. They had made use of an early pension scheme, but now they have no AOW income for a year because that early pension scheme ran up to 65 years old and the AO age is 66 years old for them and because the bridging scheme is really worthless; I will come back to that later on for them not to apply. As a result, they do not have enough income to live on well during that period. In short, let us learn from the solutions that have been devised in the past for today's problems. How does the Minister see that? Does he want to continue on the hopeless path of morezzp'ers, more flex, less workers' rights and an AOW age rising so fast that almost no one can keep up? Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, together with our SP youth organisation ROOD and a number of deliverers, also called "riders," of the Riders Union, I presented a prize to Deliveroo. It is a little honorable price, I must honestly say: it is the price for 'flextremist of the year'. That award was rightly won by Deliveroo. By obliging employees to become straight-handed bogus self-employed, Deliveroo sets a line through the securities of people who earn the money for the company. Can the Minister confirm here that the story of Deliveroo with which it tries to keep up the appearance that the deliveryers are insured against incapacity for work is a gross lie? It is an example of fake news that they could learn from in Russia. Mr. Chairman. It is clear to everyone that Deliveroo's delivery guys are just employees. Does the Minister agree with the SP? And is the Minister prepared, as I said earlier in the written questions but also in the debate asked Mr Heerma, to instruct the inspection to proceed immediately? It is urgent, because if this ugly infection is not immediately deactivated, it will infect the rest of the sector. During the round table on the platform economy, a number of Deliveroo's competitors said the same thing. Once it has infected the whole sector, other employers will also think: well, I can also make my employees self-employed. As far as I am concerned, this has shown the need to maintain as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. ROOD had also nominated three other bosses: McDonald's, Randstad and Albert Heijn for the "flextremist of the year" election. These are all companies that have a particular interest in shareholders while at the same time squeezing out employees and providing as little security as possible. This summer I participated in the so-called flex inspection of ROOD and I can tell you: flex work sounds positive, but it is the employers who reap the benefits of it. Mr Özdil mentioned that as well. It's a disaster for a lot of employees. Because your income may be flexible, but the rent and the care premium remain the same. I mention zero-hour contracts where you often have to be available and you don't know how many hours you can work in a month and therefore don't know how much money you have at the end of the month, while the fixed charges like the rent and the care premium just have to be paid. If you can rent a house at least, because there are also high demands when it comes to a certain income. The lack of a decent income and having to live with constant uncertainty make it difficult for people to build a future. The bosses in childcare are also an example of this. They require employees who work less than 18 hours to be available four days a week. It seems to me logical that these collective bargaining negotiations have stalled. I look forward to hearing the views of the Secretary of State on this issue. Mr. Chairman. Insecure work always raises the question: why? Why does the distribution centre of a supermarket need a flexible shell of 80%? Why does almost no one work as a firmer in a store or in the catering industry anymore? There are several answers to be given, but the most important thing, I think, is that giving uncertain contracts is cheaper than giving certainty. As long as we don't do anything about it, the mopping with the tap will continue. That is why I have written an own-initiative paper together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. In doing so, we are making a move towards the elaboration of the coalition agreement on this point. Before there were any misunderstandings, I went over something. This comes from the election program of SP, Party of Labour and GroenLinks and from no election program of any party. So if we're going to talk about where this idea comes from, it's primarily from the parties that have been proposing it here for years. It was already in the law that I made together with Paul Ulenbelt and which was submitted to the Chamber together with Mariëtte Hamer. This is a very important point, because it is one of the reasons why the Work and Security Act works so badly. It is still cheaper for employers to offer people flex contracts instead of fixed contracts. That also has to do with the dismissal allowance. Because people only received this compensation after two years, employers were able to give people contracts for one year and eleven months and then fire them. On this point, a proposal has also been made in the coalition agreement and we welcome it. Moreover, the own-initiative paper is currently being submitted officially and will be circulated shortly. In the own-initiative paper we propose that employers should pay a four-fold higher WW premium for uncertain contracts and a lower premium for certain contracts. The amount we raise with that higher premium goes one-on-one towards reducing the premium for fixed contracts. That is reasonable, because employees with uncertain contracts often enter the WW. In this way, we spare the employers who give certain contracts and make them financially more attractive. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet intends to extend the probation period from a maximum of two months now to five months. This would then apply to contracts for an indefinite period, i.e. to fixed contracts. It should make giving a fixed contract more attractive to employers. But we shouldn't be naive. Big companies are constantly looking for the boundaries of the law. Take PostNL. There one has a special department called 'Work Market Concepts'. I didn't think of it. There are just people who work at PostNL in the Labour Market Concepts department. There they spend all day searching for the loopholes in the law. They always want to find new ways to make people work for them as cheap as possible. The risk is enormous that the five-month deployment of lawless workers to turn them into a new earning model, for example in the case of seasonal work, without any reason. We shouldn't take that chance. We are preparing a motion on this with the Labour Party. I think a one-month probationary period for annual contracts and two months for multi-annual contracts is more than enough to give an impression of the future employee. That is why we will table a motion on this if the answer to this point is insufficient, and I am guessing that it is. This cabinet has a number of intentions to do something against insecure work. Earlier in the debate, there has also been talk of payroll and of making flex more expensive. Those intentions are still vague. They haven't been filled out yet. What is less vague is the direct attack on workers' rights, for example the abolition of protection against unfair dismissal, the probationary period I mentioned and the fact that workers have to wait a year longer for a permanent contract, whereas we want people to get a permanent contract. Doesn't the Minister really see that the D66 agenda of more flex and less certainty is conservative, that it throws us back in time a hundred years and that it creates the same problems again, when we solved those problems a hundred years ago? I see Mr Van Weyenberg laughing and standing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u198	Sure, we always laugh at jokes, even though they suck. Just a fact and a question for me. From day one a transition fee, tackling payroll, premium differential in the WW: can you explain to me why this leads to more flex?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u199	I have just described a number of issues that have been covered by legislation in the past, such as the poverty of the elderly and the bread funds of the Zpp'ers. Unfortunately, I know D66 as a party that has always promoted: more flex, morezzp, less employee rights and also less employee security. In this coalition agreement, I read that protection against unfair dismissal must be relaxed. If we go down that road, that D66 train will go down with less workers' rights and more flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u200	This may be well-educated, but it's not very convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u201	No, I didn't. I didn't rehearse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u202	I say this to Mr Van Kent through your chairman. He's not answering my question at all. I can understand that, because the coalition agreement is bursting with measures to tackle a fluctuating flex. The difference between Mr Van Kent and me is that he thinks that every SME person wakes up in the morning to bully and fire people. I don't agree with him. So we're going to help SMEs hire people. I am happy that Mr Van Kent disagrees with me, but the coalition agreement is full of measures that are going to be flexible. However, Mr President, I do not think that it is a way of working constructively together. I'm excited to work with you, Mr. Van Kent, on the premium differentiation. But if you make a caricature of everything and put SMEs away as enemies of workers, I do not think that is strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u204	I do not know what debate Mr Van Kent is attending today, but I have not dismissed any SMEs as enemies. I mentioned a number of measures in the coalition agreement, for example the redundancy allowance from day one. We like them. If Mr Van Weyenberg comes fishing for compliments, I can add one more, namely the payment of wages in the event of illness. It is important for small employers that this is addressed. That was a motion by Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra of the VVD in the General Reviews a few years ago, which was then adopted by a majority of the Chamber. I'm very glad it's being carried out. So if you're looking for compliments, you've found them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u205	The reason why...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u206	Easy, easy, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u207	It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u208	I thought you gave me the floor, Mr. Chairman. But anyway... The reason I'm a little disappointed is that I'm looking for cooperation. I note that Mr Van Kent says: everything I also think is a good idea, and everyone has to do that, but all the other things that are needed... Does Mr Van Kent agree with me that the Work and Security Act has failed? Indeed, he did only do things to make flex less flex. The result is that people go out early. That's not the answer, is it? Let's work together and look for support. Only you cannot say: if you take over my program, it is good and the rest is antisocial. That's not gonna make any sense, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u209	I like working together, even with D66, but I do if we agree. I've seen in the past what it could mean if you worked with D66. Then it may be that the age of AOW is increasing more quickly, that study funding is being abolished, and mention all the agreements that D66 has entered into. I like to work together when it comes to payroll, pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go day one and all the other things the SP agrees with. But I'm not gonna work with you to relax the right of dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u210	Don't provoke. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u211	Sorry, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg can indeed forget that. Does the Minister really think that the trade unions would want to conclude an agreement with this misery about the right of dismissal as its content, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg? For years, the Chamber has been pressing for extra money for the SZW inspection, another good point from the coalition agreement. That's not for nothing. While the number of inspections and investigations has decreased by over a fifth over the last five years, the number of accidents also increased by over a fifth. The number of fatal accidents increased by 37% in 2016 compared to a year earlier. That's 70 employees who didn't come home from work at night. Last year, the SP called together with D66 and the CDA to investigate the shortage of people in the inspection. In May, the Minister presented the results of this investigation. Conclusion: up to 400 inspectors should be added in order to perform all tasks properly. A debate on this, so that we could proceed directly to enlargement, was unfortunately blocked by the negotiating parties. They preferred to settle it at the negotiating table. And honestly, there's extra money coming in, and that's good. It's 50 million, but it's not until 2022. In 2018, the first 13 million will be available, while everyone sees the need for rapid action. Why is this? It's not just about anything. It's often about life or death. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of getting the additional funds available earlier? We have tabled an amendment to this effect with fantastic coverage, namely the surplus on the sector plans. I hope the Secretary of State can embrace that. If she sees other roads leading to the same Rome, then we are also very willing to think with it. Mr. Chairman. People who have started working early and have a low life expectancy, but who have a pension that is not so high that they can stop working sooner, work longer. The PVV is no longer there, but if it's up to about everyone here, except 50PLUS, there is much longer work to be done. When I was an employee here and the debate with Donner and Klijnsma was held on raising the age of AOW, I looked at the age at which the spokesmen and the various group leaders started working. That was about 27 years old. We can call it bizarre that those who decide that people have to work up to 71 or even 71.5 on the scaffolding have started working themselves at the age of 27 and are building a generous pension here, for which up to €1,200 a month is paid in contribution. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, people should have the opportunity to stop working earlier simply because they can't do it anymore. I hope the Minister agrees with us. Think of the street makers, for example. Rutte promised in 2009 that they could stop working sooner if they only voted for the VVD. Last year, for the first time in years, the number of people unable to work increased sharply. The number of benefits for people who have become unfit for work increased by 40,000 in 2016. This is an increase of 12%, the largest since 2010. Is the Minister prepared to have a very specific examination of the relationship with the increase in the AOW age? 'Cause until you literally fall down, the minister doesn't want to work, does he? We have to avoid that with each other. Or does the Minister choose instead of ensuring that people can grow old in health and stop working on time? For example, on paper it is pretended that the problem is solved and people can work longer, as if they are not literally sick from working up to 71 or 71.5. I just think that the Minister and the Secretary of State, in addition to the coalition parties' retraining plan, are going to present the improvement of working conditions as a solution. I therefore made ten concrete proposals together with Mr Gijs van Dijk last month, in the first debate we had with the Secretary of State. The reaction of the Secretary of State was most friendly, but actually nothing more than a list of the rules that are already in place, rules which are therefore not working in practice. It is also noteworthy that parties such as D66 and the VVD, which are full of better working conditions to allow longer working hours, made no proposals themselves. D66 is going to be a part of this, but I have not heard any concrete proposals from the VVD. We have had the VAO Working Conditions today, and I am counting on the parties who say that we need to find the solutions there to support proposals to shape that. And no, inspecting is not the answer. That's really different from making rules. And how do these leaders intend to improve working conditions with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u212	I doubt a little, because some spokesmen were not present at that debate. I think it's kind of classy to actually make a correction here. The VVD Group has co-signed the proposal I tabled today and I saw online that the SP is going to support it. The VVD has also submitted the proposal that has been made today at the VAO and does something to improve safety. The accusation that nothing is happening is actually not true, whereas some spokesmen on this subject are not yet able to defend themselves here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u213	I support your proposal, because that means that, if there is an accident at work, there must be an improvement plan. But that is after the accident at work. What matters to me is to improve working conditions, and what these ten proposals mainly monitor, is that we are going to lay down rules with each other to prevent these accidents from happening. I am thinking of the language requirement around the maximum weight for parcel delivery. No misunderstanding: we will certainly support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u214	The motion tabled also speaks very clearly about the preventive effect it has. It is not only important after an accident has occurred, it also has a preventive effect. The spokesperson of the SP states here that the parties did not make any proposals in that debate, but in fact the VVD contributed to this proposal. That's why it's not right what the SP spokesperson says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u215	It's a good thing you're standing up for your coalition partner like that. If that's the case, fine. Mr. Chairman. How do these directors intend to improve working conditions with retroactive effect? How do they think people with retroactive power to retrain? In other words, can they explain what they are going to do for workers who are 63 and simply cannot continue working? The SP's answer to this question is clear: lower the AOW age and make it possible to stop working earlier. But there are other possibilities. You can freeze the AOW age and decouple life expectancy. You can remove the tax fine, that RVU tax on earlier stop working. You can do an investigation, which I would like to call on the Minister, to see if there are any arrangements where people can retire after 43 or 45 years of work, for example. This type of data is available from pension funds. At the Tax Office, these data are a little complicated, but I think it's good to start looking at possibilities. I think it is very important to abolish the requirement for senior citizens to be interviewed. That's pure harassment. Finally, solve that AOW hole. The current bridging arrangement is inappropriate. Hardly anyone has a right to it, and it throws people into a huge financial hole. Is the Minister prepared to meet these people by significantly broadening the bridging regime? I am curious to hear the reaction of the government to the proposals I have made to solve some of the problems that people have to deal with longer working hours. Mr. Chairman. Then about pensions. Unfortunately, we do not know D66 and the VVD as protectors of our pension system. Over the past few years, they have imposed bizarre accounting rules on pension funds, which forced pension funds to rely heavily on them. They also proposed a very expensive system to make pensions individual and to pay a way of paying contributions, so that the contribution for young and old does not differ significantly. Now there's a coalition agreement. With regard to the passage on pensions, we have a lot to talk about here, and my main question is: what problem is it going to solve? Does this new system allow indexing earlier? Does this new scheme improve pension outcomes? Does this new system increase confidence in our pension funds? I don't think that's the case. I think that creating those individual jars that move directly with the developments in the financial markets is precisely what makes people think: my pension is not safe, my pension is not sure. I think that abolishing the average premium is a technique, Mr President, at least the way in which the premium is divided between young and old, the current way of making sure that there is a huge bill. I have looked closely at the coalition agreement, but I do not see any cover for it. The cost calculations vary between 50 and 100 billion. I don't see any cover for that. So I am guessing that this has to be coughed up by employers and employees; I am asking the Minister if that is correct. If that's true, does the Minister really believe there's going to be a pension agreement? If the bill is that high, I honestly don't believe any of that. Finally, Mr President. This cabinet gives room for cooperation, at least, that's what it radiates with unions as well as with other political parties here in the House of Representatives. I call on the Minister to be extremely flexible in dealing with the intentions contained in the coalition agreement, because I fear and I predict that if these Lower House groups, and certainly the Minister, hold firm, there will be no agreements and cooperation, at least with my party, will be very difficult on many points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Chairman. After this sharp speech by Mr Van Kent, I should also like to say a few words on behalf of the SP. The new Secretary of State is going to work with fresh courage. That's what we see in the media. It is about poverty, debt, the disabled, assistance, in short, generally about people who do not earn as much as a ruler. The Secretary of State makes about one and a half tonnes a year. Would she feel the same way about her beautiful new job if she doesn't get $1,000 a month for it, so I ask her. Would she be okay with her colleagues getting a much higher salary? That plan is in the coalition agreement, but for the disabled. The wage cost subsidy will be abolished, working below the minimum wage will be possible. It shouldn't get weirder! Full-time work but earn no more than a welfare allowance; your colleagues earn a normal salary, but you may supplement your salary at the municipality. I have spoken to a number of people, such as Lidia and Masha, who were also present this afternoon at the Wajong demonstration, which is already dealing with this. They do the same work as their colleagues, but get paid much less. I call that wage discrimination. The Secretary of State sees the broad criticism of her miserable plan and has therefore started a charming offensive. On Friday, on the news, she said she's heading for minimum wage. That is, of course, extremely vague. What does she mean by "prices"? The question is whether it guarantees that the minimum wage remains the minimum wage and is therefore not undermined. I'd like a firm commitment. Otherwise, we're facing a cold attack on civilization. The minimum wage is not called minimum wage for nothing. Sitting under it is anything but social or Christian. It's an unrelenting demolition policy. Countless people are concerned about the plan to abolish labour costs subsidies. We see aldermen, directors, trade unions, but above all the people themselves who are not waiting for this. I'll list the objections. Due to the abolition of the wage cost subsidy, pension and WW rights lapse. We saw it on Monday at Nieuwsuur: less retirement for disabled people. The Secretary of State admitted it in full. What kind of crazy is that? Shall we introduce that for rulers, too? Workers are no longer equivalent to their colleagues, because the disabled remain dependent on a benefit and have to go to the municipality to supplement their pay. So you get first-rate and second-rate employees. The employee has to take care of all this himself, which makes everything unnecessarily complicated. There is an increase in the risk of errors and thus in debt. The clarity you seek will not be achieved at all, because the pay dispensation for Wajangers will be reduced. Instead of simplification, a new regime will be added. "Wage costs subsidies have just begun to get underway. Don't change this again. Just stop it. It's yojo policy!" According to CDA Alderman Huib van Olden from Den Bosch. Groups without assistance or with partial assistance will significantly deteriorate due to the housing situation, the partner or the property. They don't get a pay supplement, so they stay well below the minimum wage. Take the example of Frits, who is employed by Environmental Work, a social enterprise in Amsterdam. He's got 40% pay grade. He lives with his parents, who he helps take care of, and is therefore not entitled to benefits. Will pay dispensation only give him 40% of the minimum wage? That would be a considerable decline. Last but not least, half a billion cuts are being made on labour restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr Van Dijk, of course, also received and read the letter from the Secretary of State. It clearly states that in all cases work continues to pay and work towards the minimum wage. It also states that the situation remains the same for the current group of people currently working under wage costs. So they don't worry, because it stays that way. We also have some idea how many people that is right now, about 6,000. And when I hear how many people are sitting on the couch right now and aren't working at all, who are now afraid that they might earn a little less than the minimum wage... So they're just sitting at home right now and earning a level of welfare. They're not at work and they're also very bad at work. How does Mr Van Dijk look at that? What we're doing now doesn't actually work. We can conclude that if it's 6,000. Doesn't the SP just agree to a change because of that one argument, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u219	I saw the Secretary of State on the news. Of course, I read her letter, and I saw on the news that she said, "We're rates on the minimum wage." When I asked your colleague in the VVD whether she guaranteed that the minimum wage would remain the soil, she gave me absolutely no answer. I'd love to hear it from you. I didn't have any more interruptions, but if you say here yourself, "Dear people, the minimum wage remains the minimum wage," we'll have a drink later. I am very happy, but I have not heard your colleagues say that. In fact, I have just mentioned a whole range of objections, risks and concerns raised by the sector itself, by aldermen and so on. They say, "This is a very bad plan, for there will be first and second-class workers."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u220	A lot of the objections expressed by the people who were here were really there for the letter from the Secretary of State, but I think that letter takes away many different concerns. My point is not that I assume that everyone will be on minimum wage from day one, because that won't happen, so we should have that drink another time. That won't be him tonight, presumably. My point, however, is that these people are at home right now and do not earn more than just welfare. Isn't it supposed to get people to work? Isn't that what we all want? The way we do it now, it just doesn't work. It concerns 6,000 people, with 1 million people in the bank, I heard Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan say earlier. I think we should try something. Expecting people with a distance from the labour market to receive a 100% minimum wage from day one, that just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u221	Get people to work? Nothing like that! But we're not gonna do that by breaking their rights, are we? We're not gonna do that by saying: well, then we're gonna take your pension, your WW rights and all the other things I mentioned? It's low-by-the-ground to do it that way. As a new spokesman in this area, I notice that there is a group in the Netherlands, which has been hit hard for years. I have spoken with my predecessor Mrs Karabulut of the week. She said that a total of 3 billion has already been cut on this group of people. Another 0.5 billion. Why are labour restrictions being re-sewed into the suit? Foreign shareholders receive a gift of EUR 1.4 billion from Rutte III. The disabled are cut by 500 million. Where do you get the guts? But now for the good news. There are excellent alternatives, Mr. Peters, which will get this miserable plan off the table. I mentioned the dividend tax, which makes no one happy. In addition, you can look at the low-income advantage, the so-called LIV. That also brings in about 500 million. Aldermen call the plan for 20,000 extra sheltered places as an alternative. Those are three options to get an ill-thought-out plan off the table. Pick one and you'll get a big round of applause, because you'll stop the hollowing out of the minimum wage. If you want to have such a clear policy, you can also choose to introduce national wage subsidies for all people with disabilities. So not abolish it, but expand it! Great advantage: you don't drop people like a brick, but you treat them with dignity. Also people who are disabled, in the WIA or the WAO, young disabled people who are going to work, are not getting any better. Are you prepared to do something about that? Disabled people with a Wajong benefit are taken hard by the cabinet. Wajangers' benefit will be reduced by 5% on 1 January. That is about €60 net on a payment of less than €1,000. It amounts to less shopping twice a month. The discount is unnecessary, unfair and cowardly. That is why I have an amendment with the Labour Party and the GroenLinks to remove this so-called 'pest discount' from the table immediately. The Wajong discount comes from the Participation Act. At that time, it was promised to help young disabled people with work capacity to get a job. In return, the Wajong benefit could be reduced by 5%. However, nothing has come of the extra jobs. The agreement to introduce a mandatory job quota for this group has been postponed until 2019. Conclusion: the job appointment has been postponed, the discount is still freezing. For this reason alone, the reduction should be postponed for at least one year. Another argument for the discount was the crisis. However, the crisis is over. The economy is growing like coal and there are many more jobs, just not for Wajangers. The promise of Prime Minister Rutte that everyone is making progress does not apply to all Dutch people. While undoing the discount costs less than 50 million, foreign investors receive a gift of 1.4 billion. Shareholders are played, people with disabilities get kicked. I can't believe CDA, D66 and Christian Union are supporting this heartless policy! The question is whether this discount is in line with the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. In Article 28 (1), the Netherlands agreed to take measures to ensure a decent standard of living for people with disabilities and to work on the continuous improvement of their living conditions. New young disabled people with some capacity for work are now being deprived of assistance. This does not mean that they are suddenly miraculously healed and able to work, let alone compete with other workers. This only means that they get a lower benefit and are behind the rags. The labour force is purely theoretical and their chances in the labour market are minimal. This is demonstrated by the fact that only 1,400 of all re-approved Wajangers have so far received a job since the beginning of 2016. Do you share my opinion? Research by Regioplan shows that 60% of young disabled people in the Participation Act can never earn above welfare levels. I'd like a response. To sum up, the Wajong discount is unfair because the jobs promised have not been made, it is unnecessary because the crisis is over and it is cowardly because you are hitting the most vulnerable people. It is not their fault that they have that restriction. That's why there was a petition yesterday from Rayeed with 7,000 signatures and that's why there was a protest by the FNV against this plague discount this afternoon. They offered us applications. Mrs. Voortman has already offered them. Is the Secretary of State prepared to proceed with this? I'm putting my hand in my own bosom here, too. My party, too, I think that is true for all parties and also for the House of Representatives. But you're from the government, so you have the greatest potential. Let me put it this way. This afternoon we also made cards of a card game, the card game "bully." I can see the Minister's nodding. I think he's very good at that, and so is the Secretary of State. That's why I'd like to offer these cards to the Secretary of State and invite her to mess with me. Look, you're on this yourself. And yes, you're the joker. That's the biggest bullying card. But I promise you I will take him away if you say: yes, that discount is unjust. We're gonna hear that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u222	I want to correct factual inaccuracies. This afternoon after the FNV-action, I immediately asked about the situation at the Chamber of Representatives. Our director of Corporate Management has immediately informed me that this year's House of Representatives will meet the objective for the number of Wajangers. More is always good, of course, but the House of Representatives achieves its goal for 2017. An example for other public authorities, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u223	Greetings, homage. My compliments to the chairman. Many can take an example of this, Mr President. I won't mention any names. Mr President, let us be clear. Is the Secretary of State at least prepared to cancel the discount for next year? The job quota has also been postponed. As the union says, no jobs, no discounts. Make yourself immeasurably popular. I would also like to draw your attention to the amendment to item No. 5 (34845). I'm gonna take a look at the backup, too. That was submitted this afternoon to the Najaarsnota, also in order to cancel the Wajong discount for next year with the funds that were left in 2017 by the Wajong itself. Well, I think to myself, how feasible can it be? In particular, the government does not comply with its part of the employment agreement except for the Lower House then, but in the meantime, the social workshops have been placed in a death house structure, reducing the number of jobs there. Now what do figures from Cedris, the umbrella organization? The total number of jobs for people with disabilities is falling. There are net fewer jobs. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? The Human Rights College has found that in 2015 people with disabilities are twice as often unable to find work as people without disabilities. This even increased in 2015. Let's do something about that. Not because of a bully discount, but because of jobs and good guidance. There are serious concerns about the continued existence of social employment services. There are now social workshops forced to close their doors. 267 Aldermen signed a manifesto for this reason last spring. The core is that they do not have enough budget to support vulnerable people. The reason is the continuing austerity. As far as we are concerned, social work facilities are still very much needed. Firstly, for people who really don't make it outside the sw and need a sheltered workplace and secondly, because the sw has a lot of expertise in the house that is desperately needed to help people get a job outside the sw. What we need is a new style of social work, which helps people to find a meaningful job both inside and outside the workplace. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work with aldermen to make a plan to transform the social workplace into a new style of social work provision? Job security and a decent collective agreement are, of course, crucial. Mr. Chairman. More than 1 million people live in poverty, of which about 400,000 are children. Incomprehensible in a rich country like the Netherlands. We are also seeing more and more poor workers, so-called working poor. Does the Secretary of State find that acceptable? That is a clear question, with a yes/no answer. Then what's her ambition? I do not think it is acceptable. The Chamber adopted a motion on this subject from Mr Peters, the undersigned and others: set a clear ambition to reduce this poverty. It's actually gonna end up on your plate. Knowers, like Mariëtte Hammer of the SER................................................................................................................. That is why we are calling for a substantial improvement in this social minimum. Increase the minimum wage and related benefits by 10%. That's what's going on. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One in five families have problematic debts. The Secretary of State will come in spring 2018 with plans for a comprehensive debt approach. I'll wait it out in suspense. I'll give you a few points. Ensure an approach to incorrect collection agencies. I've asked a lot of questions about that. Some debt collection agencies really make a mess of it. I can talk about it from my own experience; I will not go into it any further! Take care of the handling of bank deposits. Take care of dealing with debt trading. I'm waiting for a response. Mr President, then to the Minister. Labour migration. I already asked questions about abuses at Question Time, about unfair competition, repression and exploitation, for example in the Westland. The only ones that are getting better are the employers and the temporary employment agencies. They enrich themselves at the expense of the mostly Eastern European workers and ensure that workers from the Netherlands do not enter the labour market. The solution to this problem is the introduction of a system of employment permits. This avoids displacement, and we also have an immediate picture of who works here, so that we can check whether these workers are being treated properly. In addition to work permits, the SP advocates a licensing obligation for temporary employment agencies, firm enforcement by the inspection, joint and several liability for fines for offenders and offenders, so that they cannot continue under another name. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least: wages. When the government was standing on the border, we heard one big hallelujah story. Everyone gets better, the Prime Minister called. But what does it turn out to be? These effects become reality only with a raise of at least 3%. However, we do not see much of this increase. Today in the news: things are getting better, economic growth is getting harder, but wages are falling. How are you going to achieve that very justified wage increase? So not only on paper, but also in the eulogy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, there is an ambitious and at the same time balanced government agreement aimed at achieving more balance in the labour market. We have lost over half a million permanent jobs over the last seven years. Even as the economy picks up, the share of permanent jobs continues to fall. For people who follow me on Twitter: I sometimes want to swing those pictures into the world. Then you can see that the share of permanent jobs has fallen from 84% to 73% in 2017. The Central Planning Bureau and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also show that there is increasing division, where young people and less educated people are more often engaged in flexible work. And often not because they choose to, but because they have no alternative. If we do nothing and the trend continues, then in ten years' time less than half of the less educated will have a permanent job and they will be in a temporary contract. Mr. Chairman. The Work and Security Act, also supported by my party, has unfortunately failed to reverse that trend in the declining share of fixed contracts. The descent continued. In the meantime, less than three quarters of employees still have a fixed contract. Unfortunately, the social partners did not manage to break through the deadlock in the polder either. After years of talking, even after a motion by colleague Heerma on the payment of wages, they did not come out, even in the time of injury that was granted them a number of months during the cabinet formation. Mr. Chairman. That makes it particularly important, in my view, that we now move quickly and carefully from paper to practice the reforms of the coalition agreement to restore that balance. I am glad that the Minister also states in his letter that he will move forward. I am sorry that the Minister notes that there does not seem to be room for a comprehensive social agreement. Unfortunately, reading some of the contributions from the social partners, which actually say that, I cannot help but follow that conclusion. I think it is wise that the Minister should nevertheless continue to focus on partial agreements. As far as D66 is concerned, this must be partial agreements in which the ambition remains. There is always talk about substantive measures, but doing nothing is not an option. The challenges in the labour market and pensions are simply too great for this. Today, I would like to focus on a number of elements where progress is urgently needed. I'll start with the split between flex and solid. On the labour market, I look forward to the effects of making the fixed job more accessible and at the same time addressing flex rotating doors. Then I am talking about flex contracts for employees; self-employed people are something else. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Here's balance in the coalition chord. Indeed, there will be a cumulation ground in the right of dismissal, including a higher transition fee. We are entitled to a transition fee from day one, which will remove the perverse incentive to revolving door contracts. Because if you fired someone all the time for two years, you didn't have to pay. So it was more attractive to let three people each just not work for two years than one someone six years. That's not good. There will be strict rules for payroll and zero-hour contracts. Very good, and balanced. Just making flex less attractive isn't gonna solve the problem. The permanent job also needs to be better accessible. Mr. Chairman. This also includes the measure to differentiate the WW premium by type of contract. But I see Mr Van Kent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u226	Me too. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What would happen in the eyes of D66 if we made flex less attractive and stuck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u228	I think the Work and Security Act is a good example. That's where the chain determination went from three to two years, because then people got a permanent job earlier. My inbox, and I am guessing Mr Van Kent's, included above all examples of people who said: instead of the employer not having the courage to give me a permanent job after three years, I have already been said goodbye after two years. Well, then, you're not getting much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u229	I have just heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that we are stopping that revolving door by granting the redundancy allowance from day one and taking all kinds of other measures. Of course, these were all measures that were not included in the Work and Security Act. So again the question: if we actually make flex work more expensive and do not make it pay for employers to put people endlessly in flex contracts, what do you think Mr Van Weyenberg will see for himself if we do not relax the right of dismissal and allow people to wait another year for a flex contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u230	What I see then is that there are all kinds of other constructions to work around. Exactly that's what we've seen with the Work and Security Act. That is why I consider the balance in the coalition agreement to be so important: to tackle the fluctuating flex. But the SMEs I speak to many of them, that will be no different for Mr Van Kent says: I want to, but I dare not, because of pay payments in the event of illness, for example. We're all gonna do something about that. That's beautiful, isn't it? But, and that's just the crux, so you have to do it both ways. I have also campaigned with that, by the way. That's the difference. If Mr Van Kent thinks you should do it all on the flex side alone, I will once again remind him of the Work and Security Act. Tried, failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u231	Carry on, unless Mr. Van Kent has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u232	The whole point of the Work and Security Act was that flex remained cheaper than fixed. We agree on the payment of wages in the event of illness and all the other measures to stop that revolving door, but I still do not understand what doom scenario D66 sees for itself. Other constructions are mentioned. Well, then we'll make it impossible, too, like the payroll and the phonyzzp'ers at Deliveroo. What do you think D66 has in mind at the moment when we would stay away from protecting people from unfair dismissal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u233	This is kind of interesting. That accumulation ground is not about unfair dismissal at all. It's about cases where you have to be able to dissolve work and security on one ground with the current Act. That was never the case, and I hear from a lot of entrepreneurs that the doom is that saying goodbye is becoming more difficult, even if, unfortunately, someone is not working properly and there is little work. Then one thing happens: you hire people less quickly. I'd like to do something about that. This has been on the table in many polder transfers and has recently reached me by all kinds of roads. By the way, you get a higher transition fee through that land. Mr Van Kent has a different view of the labour market. He thinks all these permanent jobs will come on their own if you make everything tough. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u234	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u235	The coalition agreement also includes the contract-type differentiation of the WW premium. Premiere differentiation in the WW was in a slightly different form indeed also in the D66 programme, I say to colleagues. However, this is done here by contract type where permanent jobs are subject to a lower premium than temporary contracts. I am afraid, moreover, that this is an extremely complex measure, which the Minister will have a great deal of work to do, but it is a good measure, which does indeed do something about the pricing. I agree with Mr Van Kent and others. That's exactly what the coalition agreement is about. But when can we receive from the Minister a more detailed interpretation of this premium differentiation? Is there anything he can say about that? And I would ask the Minister to do everything in his power to send the bill on the wider package between flex and solid................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Will the Minister do everything in his power to do so? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about a fast-growing form of flex that I have been hearing more and more about lately, namely contracting. I want to prevent us from doing things now, as we did with payroll, and then having to see in three years' time that there has been a new form; that is also a bit of an answer to Mr Van Kent's question. I would ask the Minister to look a little more closely at the issue of contracting and to send a letter to the Court of Justice on this matter, with an analysis and an answer to the question whether he thinks that other measures might be needed. That brings me to pay for illness. To make the permanent job more accessible, we also take the two-year-old... I see Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u236	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u237	Mr Van Weyenberg is still on the whole story about the balance between flex and solid. My question is the same as that to Mr Heerma of the CDA. There is a danger that the extension of the probationary period will become a new construct where you will be fired after four months and so many weeks and you can start again. Does D66 see that danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u238	Thank you for that question. The government agreement states that that probation is only five years... five months, sorry... no, no, certainly not five years... if you give someone a permanent contract right away. That is precisely the protection against the revolving door which Mr Van Dijk says: I do not want to get out of it. I don't want to get out of that either. What kind of employer gives a permanent job right now? I saw Mrs Minnesma from Urgenda tell us at Nieuwsuur: with that probation I dare not give people a permanent job immediately. This measure attempts to tempt employers to give that contract for an indefinite period in one go. That's a little longer probation. That's right. By the way, you are entitled to transition fee. We changed that, too. If it turns out that this is just a revolving door, then I want to get rid of it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u239	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u240	For it is purely a sincere attempt to bring back the offer of permanent jobs, even as a first contract. Mr. Chairman. I was on pay-as-you-go in case of illness. The second year will be collective. Especially for small businesses up to 25 employees, this really is a headache file. This is already being discussed in the polder. The coalition agreement makes a very conscious request to the polder: if you come up with further adjustments, the cabinet would like to look into that. I'd like to repeat that call. I hope that glove gets caught. For independent entrepreneurs, the cabinet takes a very new approach, namely a much greater differentiation between the type of entrepreneurs and a better attempt to separate them from self-employed entrepreneurs who are self-employed and constructions at the bottom. The DBA Act is off the table. My group is extremely pleased with that. And yes, the new legislation is becoming complex. The drafting of this new legislation should be carried out in conjunction with field parties, includingzzp'ers and their organisations. I'd like an explicit commitment from the Minister. Not on the self-employed, but on the self-employed. I understand that this is very complex and that the Minister says that the new regulation will not be able to enter into force until 1 January 2020. I would have liked to have seen that sooner, just like Mr Wiersma. I will continue to ask the Minister whether it can't be done faster, but I understand that the shrapnel of the DBA Act is unfortunately not easy to glue. We are entering a fundamentally different path with the coalition agreement, which requires careful and good results. When are we going to have the elaboration of the client declaration and the legislation that brings about an adaptation of the relationship of authority, I ask the Minister. When does he expect to be able to file it in the Chamber? Could the Minister please take another look at whether it can be faster for the opt-out above €75? It's very difficult. If it can't, it can't, but I still want to make one last call. Mr. Chairman. On one point, I specifically ask for acceleration, namely the clarification of the relationship of authority. Mr Wiersma said the same thing. It is not a question of amending the law, but of clarifying the existing legislation, which hopefully also removes uncertainty. If you are a journalist attending an editorial meeting, you do not want your client to be afraid that this single fact is almost seen as an employment relationship. Those who care live. Could this be settled before 1 January 2019, I would ask in the light of Mr Wiersma's question. I think that this can also give more clarity to self-employed people with a slightly higher hourly rate, so that their client gets more clarity that there is no need under the current law to fear that they are seen as employers rather than clients. In the second term, I will table a motion on this subject together with Mr Wiersma. Mr. Chairman. The government agreement also includes an exploration of the entrepreneurial agreement, a place of its own in the Civil Code for independent entrepreneurship. How's the minister gonna handle that reconnaissance? Does he have an approach in mind? And if we don't, when will we receive it? And yes, I want more tempo at the top, but I also want more tempo at the bottom. Many colleagues have talked about the round table on the platform economy and the conversation we had with Deliveroo separately. At that time it became clear that all parties, from left to right, including the political centre where I like to find myself, are concerned about the new construction at Deliveroo. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of self-employment. The new legislation at the bottom, with a minimum rate of €15 to €18, is likely to enter into force in 2020. But we can't leave this place for two years. Can the Minister see how he could maintain earlier and stronger at the bottom? Does he want to talk specifically to this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u241	GroenLinks can fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's questions on the minimum rate forzzp'ers. I do have one more question for him. Does D66 agree with us that the new minimum rate forzzp's, when it comes to it, should be at least so high thatzzp'ers can insure themselves against incapacity for work and pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u242	Regarding the level of the minimum rate, there is a margin in the agreement: between €15 and €18. Then you're at about 125% of the minimum wage. This is therefore deliberately higher than the minimum wage alone. This is to enable people to insure themselves against incapacity for work. That's a choice, by the way. That's what I'm saying, because that's important to my party. In addition, it offers people the opportunity to put some aside for their retirement. In addition, you are also in the middle of the minimum wage with the franchise. The AOW is by far the most important pension factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you for this clear answer. If I understand my colleague from D66 correctly, he says that the sectoral margin between €15 and €18 should be enough forzzp'ers to insure themselves for pensions and against incapacity for work. Of course, this is done by choice, but thanks to that minimum rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u244	In the case of pension, however, you also have the franchise, so there is often very little supplementary pension for employees on that income. One fact: the margin from €15 to €18 is also well above the minimum wage with €15, around 125%. So I agree with you that there has to be margin there, to have the means to ensure that employees are able to cover matters that go through employee contributions, including disability, and, if you like, to put aside something before retirement. I think the answer is yes, with a small comma. I do not want to raise high expectations for pensions. For employees on this point, too, the AOW is the remotely most important source of pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u245	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u246	Rounding up. I appreciate that Mr Van Weyenberg is giving that comma fairly, because that will be an important comma. In any case, on behalf of GroenLinks, I am going to make sure that that comma goes away, making it a nice sentence with a lot of certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u247	But that comma wasn't there because I don't agree with the purpose, but because in people with this income the AOW is just the remotely most important factor. But I look forward to the outcome. That €15 to 18 is a bandwidth that the cabinet has appointed, also because we are still searching. So, so I say to Mr Özdil, let's look together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u248	Proceed, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u249	I thank Mr Özdil for this little bridge to pensions. This was not attuned, I say to the other colleagues. For years now we have been engaged in a system discussion. Participants are currently losing confidence in the system, pensions are not indexed for too long, and if nothing changes, there will also be very limited scope for indexation in the coming years. Just last week, the stress test of the European Institute of the European Social Fund was published, which shows that pension funds are struggling across Europe. Our funds are also hit hard: there is a low interest rate, we are fortunately getting older than we thought, and they are vulnerable in a possible crisis. This combination of nominal certainty and the ambition to index does not result in an optimal outcome for participants. It makes our system vulnerable and very interest-sensitive. We've seen that over the past few years. Mr. Chairman. No one can provide absolute security for pensions, but there is room for improvement. We're in injury after years of talking. The coalition agreement therefore contains a text that is almost one-to-one in line with the latest state of mind, as expressed in the report of the Economic and Social Council: personal jars in the construction phase, allowing for a buffer to be provided, but which should not be negative, an end to the average premium where, moreover, I say to Mr Van Kent, funds are reserved for the coalition agreement and the maintenance of the premium area. Honestly, I just can't imagine that we're not getting along here with social partners. Let us jump together, politically and polder, in the interests of all participants, whether they work or are retired.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u250	This is getting way out of hand. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u251	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but this is a relevant point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u252	Everything is relevant what is said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u253	It is indeed about the polder and a very clear signal from the trade union movement. We want to talk about pensions, but then we also want to talk about forms of early retirement. I call on D66 to design scenarios to make that possible. How's Mr. Van Weyenberg in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u254	I always find negotiating through the Chamber complicated. I hope that Mr Gijs van Dijk does not ask me to do so. We are doing a number of things in the coalition agreement, I would add. The IOW will be renewed, because it would end after your cabinet. We invest in the retraining of older jobseekers. That is what we are doing with an amendment that is now before us, but also through additional money in the government agreement for the mediation of job seekers. We also want to place much more emphasis on training with the social partners. But I don't think freezing the AOW age is real. We're all getting older. That's a reality. Just to make the AOW affordable, we need something. But I also like to talk about things, where, as far as I am concerned, it should be about how we can make people work healthy. The average age of exit is now 64.5 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u255	Proceed, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u256	But that was Mr Van Dijk's question. I am open to talking about things. Such an agreement on pensions is worth something to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u257	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u258	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, you're in a hurry; you're right. I'm going back to the labour market. The Central Planning Bureau this morning showed that there have never been so many jobs and that unemployment is falling at record rates to next year's lowest level since 2008. In fact, it is going so well on the labour market that more and more employers indicate that they are being hampered by the lack of staff. As far as I am concerned, this is almost the biggest challenge of the coming years, in addition to getting people to work who are so eager to do so. Because on the one hand we are seeing large deficits in employers but also a group of people who want nothing more than to get to work. We also see people who want to work more hours. There, too, there is human resources, just like those who haven't actually reported themselves since the crisis because they've been discouraged out of concern that there wasn't any work for them. How are we gonna put that together? That is why today I would like to ask the Minister to come forward with a plan of attack against the weak. It is important that the Minister now directs. We all have loose numbers. What's the big picture? Where are the deficits? How does that fit the people who aren't working yet? How do we tackle this mismatch in the labour market? What do we need to bring supply and demand together? Can we not share good examples from different sectors much better? Or is everyone gonna reinvent the wheel? How do we make it more attractive in collective agreements to work more hours? How do we ensure that people can stay healthy for a little longer? This, too, is labour potential in sectors where there is a need for staffing. How can sectors make them attractive to new workers, that people want to work there? There is therefore a multitude of measures that can be taken, both in the market sector and in the public sector. Because there's also a shortage of police officers, teachers and nurses. In the second term, I will table a motion with colleagues from the coalition asking the cabinet to come up with a plan of attack. I would also like to join with Mr Heerma in asking how regional initiatives can be supported. Mr. Chairman. While employers are jumping for staff, it seems as if wage increases are still lagging behind, as is evident from the December estimate of the Central Planning Office published today. I know, the government isn't about wages. But in bad times politics, including my party, very often demands attention to wage moderation. We often even try to make agreements on this in the social dialogue. Then I think it's very reasonable. Logically and wisely, as the economy is doing very well, the room for wage increases is actually going down in higher wages. Will the Minister make a clear call for wage increases tomorrow at the time of his reply? Does he want to include this increase in his discussions with the social partners? Mr Van Kent asked the same question. As far as I am concerned, we are really an ally of the trade union movement on this point. And if these are SP texts, as the SP colleagues say outside the microphone, then I'm going to read them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u259	Do I now hear D66 making an appeal to all those who work in the government, in the defense, in the police, and so on? Of course we are going to start with a substantial wage increase? Maybe we can take the minimum wage with us and passerby. I would like to hear a response from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u260	I was expecting this one a little bit. A higher minimum wage? No, at least apart from the regular indexing, which also just goes along with it. We have a wonderful system in the Netherlands: the wage space in the government follows from the wage space in the market. So if we make sure that they do their best in business, then the wage space in government will automatically increase. I think that's a wonderful outcome. This brings me, Mr President, a bit through the interruption of 50PLUS so that is a nice little bridge to how we can leave older people to work longer. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation in building up my text. More and more older people are working longer. The average age of exit is now well over 64 years. I think that's good news. A lot of people are happy about that, too. At the same time: if you lose your job, you still get in trouble. Long-term unemployment, including among older people, is still too high. I am pleased with the extra money in the coalition agreement for guidance by the UWV. Together with the coalition parties, we have tabled an amendment to free up money now to retrain older unemployed people into jobs of chance. It is, of course, a shame that on the one hand there are people who want nothing more than to get to work tomorrow and on the other hand sectors that cannot get to people. I believe that this will enable us to tackle both long-term unemployment and short-term unemployment. Miracles don't exist, but I think it helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u261	I hear Mr. Van Weyenberg making the statement that everyone is very happy if he can work longer. But there are also people who don't make it because they have a very hard job. We can see that the elderly in particular are about 30% of the WAO. I would like a reflection on that. I would like to congratulate the coalition partners for investing more money in training to help older people get to work. In 2014 this was a proposal of 50PLUS. No one in this room supported that back then. We will wholeheartedly support this proposal because we are pleased that wisdom comes with the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u262	Yes, and sometimes resources are also available, for example now that we are coming out of the crisis. By the way, there was already an action plan with educational vouchers. I believe that we should also do justice to the previous cabinet on this point. That action plan was indeed there at our request, as Mr Heerma said, but that instrument also has some hooks and eyes. That is why we have now chosen a different form. But also the colleagues of the Labour Party and the VVD have taken steps earlier. I'm glad we can strengthen this now. Mr President, I am going to take two minutes of my second term to my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u263	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u264	Mr. Chairman. In the case of education, I would also like to talk about individual learning accounts. It is crucial that social partners also make their contribution to this. As a government, we can't just make sure everyone's schooling. Indeed, many years have been fighting for individual education budgets here; Mr Heerma and I are not the least. Now they're coming. I also really hope that the social partners will contribute to this. The coalition agreement contains rather solid texts on this contribution. I ask the Minister what is going on with the consultation with the social partners. When does he plan to feed it? 'Cause we can only do this together. Whether it is about working through the elderly, ensuring retraining if people are no longer able to work through or with emotion, social partners also have a great responsibility. This certainly applies to employers, as I say to Mrs Van Brenn. They can't hide behind the government. I would also like to draw attention today to the employment position of people with cancer. Too many cancer patients lose their jobs during their illness. Fortunately, medical science is getting better and better. People are also surviving this terrible disease more and more often, depending on the type of cancer they have. But a substantial part of that will be his job lost. I ask the Minister how the pilots for the no-risk policy, which has been decided, are now going. In doing so, we want to make employers less reluctant to give people a chance after their illness. And what about the acceptance by insurers of former cancer patients who want to take out disability insurance as self-employed? Nice promises have been made by insurers and I keep hearing that they are working hard on them, but when do they think they have arranged this? Does the minister have a picture of that? And do I understand correctly that the UWV, also in the wake of an earlier action plan, has now been given resources to occasionally purchase very specialist guidance for cancer patients who become subject to the disease law because they lose their job? They're catchers, in jargon. That's very important. This has been called for by the Chamber in the past. I'm getting signals that those resources are in place by now, but I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister. For one group, I'd like to do some extras. Those are people who lost their jobs and really don't get in the way anymore. Should we not support more initiatives in this area, for example from business networks that want to give these people a chance? I will table an amendment to do some experiments with it, to learn from it and to see what helps to pull companies over the threshold. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to a whole different theme. Last week there was an AO Integration. That debate is still ongoing. Let me say here that the central goal is that your origins should not determine your future. I think that is a fine text in the coalition agreement. We are also taking a lot of measures for this. I refer in particular to language lessons from day one and the emphasis on participation. For I am sure of one thing, as I say to Mr De Graaf: people who live here want what is best for themselves and all the best for their children. They want in and not stand by the side. They'd like to have that opportunity and not be put away. The new integration is, of course, very important for this. The Minister has indicated that he is going to do so. We look forward to that plan of action. As a result, I am doing a small intermezzo here, I would like to talk to the Secretary of State about labour market discrimination. Still your last name, the country where you, your parents or your grandparents were born, your gender or the fact that you're pregnant, too often a reason not to come to work and sometimes to lose your job. We can't accept that. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to come forward with a renewed Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan before 1 June 2018. I would also like to look at the instruments of the Labour Inspectorate. Thanks to an amendment by Mrs Karabulut and D66 there is now a unit against labour market discrimination, but it is looking for the tools. I understand that people need to be in court for an individual trial. I understand that, although sometimes I find it difficult. Mr Van Dijk has often drawn attention to this. There's more people coming to the inspection. I would ask the Secretary of State to look again at the possibility of strengthening the instruments. I would also ask him to see if any legislative changes can help in this respect. I am not saying that I am saying this in order to dampen the enthusiasm of Mr Jasper van Dijk, but I do want to take a good look at it, because I think this is what I am looking for. In any case, I would like the review of the action plan to be carried out. Then I would like to end with a progressive point of profit from the coalition agreement, as far as I am concerned. That's that I'm just proud of you. I can't say otherwise on the extension of paid partner leave at the birth of your child from two days now to six weeks later. Finally, I say. The Netherlands was lagging behind in this respect. We were in the tail. This measure brings us back to the platoon. I also welcome the broad support and kind words expressed by a number of opposition parties on this measure. They've been asking for this for a long time. Of course, I'm very curious when this bill comes to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. There's a lot of work to do. There is an ambitious and balanced government agreement. I wish both directors wisdom and determination to bring that from paper to practice, so that the ambitions for a better functioning labour market are fulfilled and a reform of the pension system is finally in place. Let's not miss that opportunity. I'd almost say, let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u265	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers, also on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u266	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is my first budget debate on Social Affairs and Employment, and not the least. I will focus today on the following issues: working must pay, the government must deliver, perspective for young people and ambition for poverty. I want to be the first to talk about the principle that working should pay off. This is a very important starting point for D66 in the coalition agreement. This principle should also apply in full to people with a distance from the labour market. Even if they go to work, it has to pay. This is often not the case in the current situation. There's two sides to this. It must be attractive for workers to go to work and to make more hours. But it must also pay for the employer to employ and retain someone. Mr. Chairman. I shall now refer to the elephant in the room: pay dispensation. Because there were many stories that people with disabilities would now work at welfare level and that working would never pay again because of the planned change in the wage subsidy system. For D66, that's unacceptable. I was therefore pleased with the letter from the Secretary of State. People are not going to work at welfare level and work is going to pay more. That's the idea. We receive many signals from employers where hiring people with disabilities is really a win-win situation for both employer and employee. This is the inclusive labour market in which everyone participates. At the same time, many studies, for example from the Human Rights College, show that employers who are disabled still do not find suitable candidates for work. This is really a matter of concern. D66 would like the Secretary of State to give that priority. Thus, in June, the Chamber took the Raemakers' motion c.s. to obtain a state of play for the budget debate on the extent to which municipalities use the candidate explorer's job appointment. The Secretary of State now indicates that municipalities have made more than 3,000 customer profiles available. But if we compare that to the UWV, we find that there was almost 75,000. So the number of municipalities is really far too low. On the positive side, we read that the regions Zwolle, Groningen and Friesland are leading the way in making municipal customer profiles available. But what about the other regions? What doesn't the congregations understand about that candidate scout? Or aren't there any suitable candidates there? Maybe it's time for naming-and-shaming, so that some results can be achieved. That's how I get to the second cup: the government has to deliver. The coalition agreement indicates that 20,000 additional shelters must be provided. Especially for the group of people who really need support, a sheltered place is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u267	If I understand correctly, Mr. Raemakers is now done with the "working must pay." Then I have a question about the Wajong. I understand you're completely permanently disabled if you've ever had AWBZ. Someone who's in the Wajong will get 75% of the minimum wage. The moment he goes to work, he falls into the new regime. Then he goes with the discount that D66 is also in favour of to 70% of the legal minimum wage. That's when work doesn't pay off. Is that what this is all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u268	I will be on the Wajong in a moment, but in general terms we have written in the coalition agreement that we want to make working in all situations pay more. This Secretary of State is working on it. D66, of course, wants people in the Wajong scheme to improve when they go to work. For concrete examples that this is not the case, I understand that this is apparently the case at the AWBZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u269	So to confirm: D66 says that in the cases that work does not pay and therefore it is better to stay in a benefit, as in this case, the discount on the Wajong should not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u270	No, D66 doesn't say that. That's what Mrs. Voortman makes of it. I say that we are aware of all the situations in which work does not pay. With the government agreement of this cabinet, we have a task to make work pay more. The 75% to 70% discount is something else, but I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u271	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u272	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed at the 20,000 extra places sheltered work. A point of interest here is that municipalities indicate that it is already a task to fill in the planned 30,000 shelter sites, which we already have to deliver anyway. How does the Cabinet see this? My predecessor on this file, Fatma Koşer Kaya, once got the former Secretary of State to start an investigation into the possibility of setting up a separate practice route in sheltered work. Last June, the previous Secretary of State concluded that, unfortunately, this is really not possible. I wonder, of course, whether the current Secretary of State shares that view. Is the practical route really not possible with sheltered work? Or can the criteria of sheltered work not be changed slightly so that the practical route can also be made possible in the case of sheltered work? And are there, as an alternative, possible pilots to try that and take a little more action? I would also like to draw attention to the following. Municipalities now receive a bonus of €3,000 per workplace realised. The Landelijke Clientenraad points out in his letter that some municipalities offer sheltered work only in part-time, so as to make it easier to collect the bonus with less effort. Does the Secretary of State recognize these signals? If so, what will it do about it? If not, is it prepared to investigate this signal further? In addition, it is very sad that the government is lagging behind in getting the job deal. We started this cabinet period with 2,903 jobs lagging behind. We don't have a good idea where things are going wrong right now. How's the Secretary of State gonna handle this? What possibilities does she have? Isn't it an option for social purchasing of services and products to be included in the job deal? If not, what are the alternatives? We like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the "young people's perspective" block. That subject is close to me. Of course, I am very willing to explain once again in this Chamber our position on the Wajong. We believe that the prospects for young people in the Wajong region are still too poor. How come more than 60,000 Wajongers haven't got a job yet? How can we let this happen as a society? This is not acceptable. What will the Secretary of State do for more jobs for this group? I was just talking about the possibility of changing the definition of sheltered work in the future. Would it not be possible to do something with the definition of sheltered work, so that some of the 60,000 Wajongers, who have not been working for many years now, can get to work under the title of sheltered work? 'Cause that's what it's about. I'd like a response. Besides work, study for young people in the Wajong and in the Participation Act is extremely important. Thanks to a proposal from my colleague Van Weyenberg from D66, young people with disabilities can also receive an individual study allowance in addition to study funding. This is to compensate for the fact that a side job is more difficult when you have a disability. We only see in practice that very few young people make use of it. Only 7% of young people in the target group make use of the study allowance. A little less than a quarter even know about the existence of this scheme. How does the Secretary of State explain this? Does it recognise the importance of this scheme and the use of municipalities? On this point, I would like to table a motion in second place. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of ambition for poverty. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter on the broad approach to debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u273	You were done with the block on the Wajong and you understand that I do have a question on that, in fact the same question as Mr Heerma. How could it be any different? That Wajong discount isn't from D66. It's from Rutte II. So Mr Raemakers, a brand-new MP, can today become the hero of the House of Representatives throughout the country when he says: yes, I see it, it's a bit odd that the job appointment is postponed while the penalty discount continues. We've got the money, there's excellent cover. I've given you two options. Are you willing to look with me at abolishing, at undoing that Wajong discount in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u274	Mr Van Dijk is right that this was a decision of the previous cabinet and that it was initially intended that this group of Wajangers should be covered by the assistance. This would also mean, for example, that the partner and power test would also apply in the Wajong. Imagine living at home with your parents as a Wajangere, which is a very good thing. Then it can mean that you go back from 75% to 0% or a very low percentage. Through the commitment of D66 and other parties it has been said: we do not want that. We don't want Wajongers to be put back into welfare. You are right to say that it is a reduction from 75% to 70%, but that 70% is comparable to all the other schemes where people are in such a position with work capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u275	But, of course, that's the whole point. Those people with a Wajong benefit have a limitation, giving them an additional discount, while they were promised a job by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. The union doesn't say for nothing: no jobs, no discounts. I can't put it any more logically. The job deal's been postponed, not the discount. Does Mr Raemakers not think that with me this is unfair? Is he seriously willing to look with me to undo that one-year discount? Then we'll talk again. Does he want to take a serious look at it for one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u276	The answer is no. If you become disabled today, you'll get into the Participation Act and you'll get 70%. Of course, getting people to work is just as difficult with that group. That task of getting more people to work, we see both in the Wajong and in the Participation Act. That is what we really want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u277	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u278	In terms of poverty and debt, we see a great deal of ambition, but the letter from the Secretary of State is above all a kind of pre-announcement of a new letter. D66 really wants to deal with the problems. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to include in the new letter a clear timetable, indicating what measures under the coalition agreement will be implemented when. When is there going to be a proposal to combat irregularities in collection more effectively with a collection register, a diploma obligation and so on? How do we deal with excesses in lending? Can the Secretary of State already engage in talks with lenders to counter irresponsible earning models and skyrocketing interest rates? I'd like a response. Mr President, I am going to use one more minute. This will be at the expense of the time for the second term. Finally, I would like to make a brief but urgent comment on the issue of the fixed faces in childcare. From January 1st onwards, this will be subject to stricter checks by the GGD. The aim is for children to see the same leaders with the same, fixed faces as much as possible. It's better for their development. But, of course, there can always be force majeure, which means that the principle is not entirely met. It is still unclear in the sector how this is to be interpreted. My question is this. If, in situations of force majeure, there is no permanent professional activity of a child in the group, will there always automatically be an insufficient GGD for the holder, or in such cases can the GGD take into account the explanations of the holder? This is therefore urgent in view of the date of 1 January. I'd like some clarity on this. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u279	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u280	Mr. Chairman. There are many things to be happy about in the Netherlands. We live longer and longer, we are healthier and as a people we are happy and prosperous. This week we have heard that from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Our agents, nurses and teachers do a great job every day to make us feel safe, that we get help when we need it and that we can make the most of our lives. But to really make something of your life, you do need solid ground under your feet. It's the basis for moving forward. Only then can you really be who you are and develop to the full. That solid ground isn't there for too many people. We are seeing more and more people who are forced to step without a bumper or buffer of false self-employment to zero-hour contracts, people who work in professions that are slowly disappearing through technology, people who have to combine multiple jobs and still can barely make ends meet. We see people who delay having a child because they have no security about their job and income. We see starters who can't buy a house because they work as a zzp'er. We see families falling into poverty as a result of a loss of income and then drowning in the paper mill of the debt industry. Those aren't natural phenomena. We can do something about that here. But then you have to make the right choice. "Because of the quality of life," that's what it was all about in 1963: the election manifesto of the Labour Party. I'd say read it. It's definitely worth it. But that's what it's all about now, in 2017, so that you can get as much out of life as possible. Quality of life starts with being sure of a decent income that allows you to plan ahead, buy a house or start a family. That starts with being sure of a job, a job in which you feel valued, in which you get support in bad luck and in which you can invest in yourself. And that starts with making sure of time for yourself and for others, for your family and friends. Those three certainties, certainly of a decent income, certainly of a job and certainly of time for yourself and for others, form the thread of my input today. The question we are asking today is how the cabinet is doing along this measuring bar. We see good measures. With minimum rates,zzp'ers gain more security about their income. By providing a transition fee from day one and increasing the costs for flex, a fixed, normal contract becomes more attractive. And by extending partner leave, parents will be able to take more time for their newborn child from 2020. These are all good things, which we wholeheartedly support. At the same time, we can see that this government, in high economic conditions and with budgetary surpluses, is not taking the chance of getting everyone back on their feet. Land under the feet is more than a little purchasing power. It's more than some anointing words in the introduction to the coalition agreement. Do you have a network you can count on? Is your diploma gonna be worth anything? Do you get a fair chance or are you discriminated against? Do you know the way in the system and is the government there for you if you need it? The government's answer to these questions is outdated. Give money to multinationals, and the rest of our country will be fine. That's choosing multinationals over people. Despite all the good intentions of this minister for a broad social agreement, it seems that the cabinet wants to push through these plans by half plus one. That would be an extremely missed opportunity for all those Dutch people who want a little more solid land in their lives. I am now going to go into more detail. Mr. Chairman. I'll start by making sure there's a decent income. You want an income that allows you to plan ahead, buy a house or start a family. You should be able to be sure of that. During the presentation of the coalition agreement, Prime Minister Rutte said that there is an agreement in which ordinary, normal citizens are making real progress. Apparently, those normal citizens are not workers with disabilities. This cabinet, in times of billions of gifts to multinationals and surpluses in the budget, chooses to cut 500 million on this group. I don't understand! We see that municipalities do not support the plan. Many large and small employers and regional workers working with these workers are calling on us: do not do it! The CPB says it creates zero jobs. Workers with disabilities should not be allowed to participate fully. You don't get a paycheck, but you get a supplement. You don't build up a pension or a WW. Also, you will always be a client of social services. This does not improve workers with disabilities. They just get a status separate. Can the Minister and the Secretary of State explain the differences in social protection between groups working on the basis of wage subsidies and pay dispensation? Can they give a motivation why they consider it appropriate that disabled people who work on the basis of pay dispensation should build up less or no social security rights and pensions? And why should workers with disabilities not participate fully in the workplace? Can the Minister and the Secretary of State indicate what will happen to the accumulated rights of people who have worked on labour costs subsidies so far? Does this regulation not actually become too complicated, with three systems? Is it true that in the negotiations a link has been established with sheltered workplaces while it concerns another group and the current sheltered workplaces are far from being filled? We come, not surprisingly, probably with a motion on this point. To be sure of a decent income should also apply if you get a Wajong benefit. In the initial phase...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u281	I took up the 2012 coalition agreement of the VVD and the Labour Party. It says: "There will be one participation law that combines the Wwb, Wsw and part of the Wajong. For the whole target group, a system of pay dispensation is introduced (...)." Five years ago, therefore, the Labour Party was also in favour of pay suspension, but now it is being raised as a matter of principle. I wonder where the Labour Party has the difference and when they've made that turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u282	Thanks for the question! There was also something else in the coalition agreement: that there should be a dialogue with the social partners. That has been done, and that has resulted in the social agreement. This was then discussed in the Chamber. This has resulted in the wage costs subsidy. So yes, it was in the coalition agreement with the VVD, but then it was restored in the social agreement. Later on, it was indeed made even better with the benevolent opposition. Ultimately, we started with wage costs subsidies, using the principle that people with disabilities should be able to participate fully and receive full pay, including pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u283	I'm sorry, but that social agreement... You wanted to throw them all into welfare! As a benevolent C3 we made it a little more social. Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u284	That's exactly what I'm pointing out. Partly thanks to the Chamber, we have said, and rightly so, that people with disabilities should be able to participate fully. That's what we all agreed on here. We got to work, too. In the meantime, we are working with this system and we see in the country that both municipalities and employers and the people themselves are calling on us to maintain it. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the VNG called us to it. They don't do that for nothing. I'm moving on. To be sure of a decent income should also apply if you get a Wajong benefit. In the early stage of the previous cabinet, when the government spent over 60 million more every day than it did, agreements were made about it, but today the reality is a different one. First of all, public finances are better. There's even a $27 million windfall on the Wajong's spending. Secondly, we do not see enough jobs in the public sector for this group and, for this reason, the quota levy has also been postponed. This has given employers room for manoeuvre, but we are now leaving the Wajong young people in the cold. Therefore, with the SP and GroenLinks, we are tabling an amendment to delete or at least postpone this discount on young disabled people for at least one year. To be sure of an income should also apply tozzp'ers. We see that this cabinet is taking good steps with the minimum rates. We also see that we almost Chamberwide are annoyed by the attitude of companies such as Deliveroo, which sends its deliveryrs outlawed. I would ask the Minister if there is still enforcement under the DBA of bogus self-employment and, in particular, the evildoers by the Tax Office. If not, I am also considering a motion on this point. Perhaps the Social Affairs Inspectorate can look at the position of these bicycle delivery workers from the perspective of safe working conditions. Being sure of a decent income also means that you have to be able to stop working if that really doesn't work anymore. More often than not, it turns out that it is mainly for people on high incomes who are healthy, not for those who have been doing hard work their whole life and who are physically unable to go through it. That's a wretched reality. The people with the highest life expectancy are also the people who stop working first. It is not for nothing that we, together with GroenLinks and the SP, free up 1 billion to do something for all elderly people who cannot work until the increased retirement age. Not for nothing does the FNV ask for steps on this point. Even many employers see that their employees simply do not make it and call on us to take action. The CPB also says that this generic measure is unfair to different groups. Moreover, the Social and Cultural Planning Office shows that there are over 1 million vulnerable elderly people in 2030. However, we do not read back about this in the coalition agreement, no perspective for those who are already struggling and seeing the retirement age continue to rise. Is it true that the Minister wanted a broad social agreement, but came to the social partners empty-handed on this point? And if that is not the case, what steps does the Minister consider possible to make possible earlier cessation of work for the group that needs it most? Is the Minister prepared to draw up scenarios that outline possibilities for early retirement or less work, at least including the generation pact, part-time pensions and the flexible AOW? To be sure of an income also means that the towering debts go away in the long run. The debt sample is persistent. Once you have a debt, it's very difficult to get rid of it. Moreover, the government is the worst creditor. The cabinet makes good proposals here, and so we support them. What is the situation with the creation of a single collection agency for all state services, I ask the Secretary of State. What's the progress on this? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to deal with debt trading? More than 400,000 children live in poverty. That means not being able to join a football club or not being able to go on a school trip, because there is no money for it at home. In a rich country like the Netherlands, that should not be possible. The promised money, the Klijnsmaalten, must end up with children. Municipalities have to deliver. It is therefore a good thing that we have a debate on this soon after the recess. To be sure of a decent income should also apply to people who receive rent payments. The cabinet saves up to €100 per year on tenants. That's what's going on for this group. According to Deputy Prime Minister Ollongren, this measure is not intended to affect low incomes. That's what she said this morning at Radio 1 and she referred to Minister Koolmees, so I'm in the right debate. That is good to hear, but where in the coalition agreement do we see the compensation for this group? The easiest way to ensure that tenants do not notice this absurd austerity is not simply to cut this cut, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u285	Let me go back to the previous point, namely the fight against poverty. We think that is very important. Indeed, during the previous cabinet period, funds were made available to the people they really need. One of the proposals that we made at the time is to label these funds so that they are actually spent on poverty reduction. In the previous period, the PvdA group opposed this. I wonder whether the PvdA Group has acquired a progressive insight, and she who now wants to tag those resources, so that they end up with people who need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u286	We've talked about this before. It turns out that several municipalities say they do have those funds, but that they spend them on very different things. I said at first that I really want that on the table, because that money is really meant exclusively for children in poverty. So that's where I'm following Mr. Kuzu. We share that destiny. If that does not happen, we, from the Chamber, too, must have the means to address and tackle a municipality. That is why we will soon have a plenary debate on this. I'd like to challenge the cabinet to that, too. If we transfer 100 million exclusively for children in poverty to municipalities and it does not end up there, we must do everything we can from the Chamber to ensure that this money goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u287	In any case, I am satisfied that I hear that the possibility of ear tags or designation as a target benefit is not excluded, but I do wonder what else is needed to note that it simply goes wrong in a number of municipalities. I'm sure you've heard those aldermen at Nieuwsuur who said: no, we just don't spend that money on it. In the past, there have also been numerous studies that have shown that this is the case. The question is very specific what more is needed to make the PvdA Group realize that there is already a problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u288	That won't be necessary. That is why we have requested a debate here. We have a plenary debate on this in January, so we agree. Be sure of a job, my second point of reference for this budget. A job where you feel appreciated, you get support in bad luck and you can invest in yourself. We see, as has been said, good points of the cabinet, such as a transition fee from day one and the difference in costs for fixed and flex. But we also have concerns. In the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister said: we are talking to employers and employees and we are not locked up in our own accord. In other words, agreements could be reached in a social agreement which deviated from the coalition agreement. As long as they provide extra fixed contracts, the Prime Minister said. This commitment was a reason for us to hold our motion on this point. But two months later, the cabinet says without a clear statement of reasons that it does not see room for a broad social agreement. That is why I ask the Minister what scope he had for the cabinet to come up with better measures. Looks like he was sent out by the VVD, but without any mandate. Is that image correct or was there room and, if so, at what points exactly? What exactly is the legislative calendar? The Minister distinguishes five coherent routes, but what exactly does this connection look like when that word comes back several times in the letter? We read that retirement should be agreed at the beginning of 2018 and that the legislation around it is planned to be fixed and flexible in the course of 2018. We read that some measures will have to start from 1 January 2020 and that some legislative processes will have to be completed by 2020. I ask the Minister for a clear overview. When does what law come to the Chamber? What deadlines are there and what exactly does the coherence of this process look like? Does the absence of an agreement on one route also affect the other and, if so, how exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u289	Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u290	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The disappointment that the social partners themselves have not been able to come out so far, for many years now, I assume Mr Van Dijk will share with me. But I have a question. We've had letters, including from the trade unions. Mr Busker simply writes that he does not like it. So yes, then the Minister comes to the conclusion, on the basis of the discussions he is having, that there is no basis for support. I find it interesting that you put the question to the Minister and weave a hint of suspicion through it, but the essence is that the trade union movement does not seem to make any sense either, especially with regard to fixed and flexible, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u291	I saw that letter, too. That is why I have asked Mr Van Weyenberg and other colleagues for a reason: is there room, including in the coalition, for possible solutions? I've been a trade unionist myself for a long time. Negotiation isn't easy, but you have to negotiate with a partner where you want to give something from both sides. The FNV has clearly stated that we want room for early retirement. I didn't ask for nothing: is there room for that now? Let me stress that we really value support and agreements made with the social partners. We shall also be very interested in that from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u292	Yeah, just as much as I look forward to meeting with the opposition parties. But you have to want both. In fact, I found Mr Van Dijk's later sentences a nice addition to what he said earlier. The aim is therefore to seek partial agreements, but all parties must also wish to do so. On some issues, I honestly say that I do not want to taste very much in the polder, but I am happy to make that appeal. I hope that you will also make the call for agreements with the social partners. 'Cause I heard your call to the minister. Do you also want to call today on the trade union movement and employers, which they must also give and take in negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u293	I don't know if it's up to me to call on employers and employees. In any case, I would like to do it to employers, because I found it very easy to get rid of them in the last few months towards the final coalition agreement. In the end, all partners have to want it. I mentioned a number of possible blockades. Are there any blockades? If so, where exactly are they? From the FNV and the trade union movement I have heard a clear blockade on stopping working earlier. I've asked questions about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u294	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u295	Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned it: our attention also focuses specifically on the cabinet's intention to set up five-month trial periods. Five months working without any certainty, this can't be the intention, can it? I mentioned it before: do we get an outlaw construction or are you really going to get a permanent job? And what is being done about the possibility for companies to cheat with that? I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Here, too, the question arises, also in the light of what the Prime Minister has indicated: are there alternatives to be discussed with social partners provided that these people provide more security in the labour market? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the fixed contract is the norm. A fixed contract gives certainty and so you can build your life. This cabinet shows that it wants to make flex more expensive and probably cheaper. We are very pleased with that. Therefore also with SP and GroenLinks an initiative paper for this. Also for payroll we made a move. We like to work together on these points and so we like to hear if that door is really open. Is the Minister prepared to seek broad support for this and to engage in cooperation by embracing our initiatives and transforming them into legislation? Migrant youth who have successfully completed a training course are repeatedly not invited to a conversation or rejected, for no good reason and probably because of their name. Everyone has to be able to participate. That's why I'd like to see a pilot for anonymous application to the government. It's a horse medicine. In the end, we need to change the culture and take-up policies of employers, but we need to do something together. This way, everyone gets a fair chance at a job. How does the Secretary of State view this? And what else is there to do, including in the follow-up to the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan? Mr. Chairman. Recently, youth organisations from the polder have called for an investigation into the position of young people. Their position is often forgotten. But how do we ensure that our welfare state will be there for them? I am considering a motion to ask the ESC for an exploration of the position of young people and how this position can be strengthened, involving the youth organisations themselves. I'd like a response. Be sure of time for yourself and others. During the rush hour of your life, you also want to take care of your child or your parents. This has to be compatible with work. Paying parental leave is a nice step for employees. Unfortunately, as a zzp'er, you're still out of the boat. Is the Minister prepared to create a form of partner leave forzzp's? Besides parental leave, you also want to see your child grow up or take care of your parents. The Minister continues a good tradition by bringing his own children to school, but how is the Minister going to work so that all parents or carers can work less so that work and care can be better coordinated? Mr. Chairman. All children deserve a fair chance. Now, however, we see certain toddlers falling between shore and ship and starting with a big lag in primary school. The ESC therefore recommends that all children be entitled to 16 hours of childcare. Is the Secretary of State gonna work on that? What is the situation with the 60 million released by the previous cabinet for this purpose? It is also important that you can really relax when you are at home, so no appening or mailing boss or colleagues outside of working time. How do the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State view this? Are they also willing to discuss this with social partners? Because let's be honest: getting sick of your work because of excessive stress is one of the biggest sick people in the Netherlands. So it's really worth a discussion. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. We want an income that allows you to plan ahead, buy a house or start a family. Work with a decent salary. Work where you get support in bad luck. Work where you can invest in yourself and adapt to a rapidly changing world. These are certainties that every Dutchman should be able to rely on. We see a cabinet that is taking some good measures in these areas. I mentioned them. However, we also see a number of measures that are unnecessarily hard on people without solving anything, such as the austerity on the disabled, such as the austerity on tenants. And we see a number of people the Cabinet has no story for. Older people whose water is already on the verge of increasing retirement age. Cops, nurses and teachers who crave less work pressure and more pay. Fortunately, we have heard from the Prime Minister before that the door is wide open. We have heard this minister who wants broad support. We await the Minister's and the Secretary of State's answers with tension. We very much hope that the outstretched hand will ensure better policy for all those Dutch who need more land under their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u296	Mr Van Dijk asked me about the scope for a possible retirement agreement with the social partners and for possible measures to stop working earlier: the AOW, education and so on. I also have a question for Mr Van Dijk on this point, namely whether he agrees with me when I look at the Labour Party's programme, and I would think that the answer to that is yes, and I hope that the demand to freeze the entire AOW age, as I heard it again today, is not real. So yes, looking at the subject, but freezing, really freezing now is not real to keep the AOW affordable. That was always the position of the PvdA. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u297	That is still true, but it really is with the remark that we, the Labour Party, are really looking for structural measures to give the generation that is currently in a very difficult position the opportunity to stop working earlier. We have a flexible AOW in our election program for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u298	I'm happy with that honest answer. I appreciate that. Thank you for that. We have to do this genuine search, including for a pension agreement, but I think it is good to name the corners of the playing field as well. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u299	In my speech, but also in that Mr Özdil van GroenLinks, it was also about integration and about the discussion about what I myself call 'healthy patriotism'. Mr Özdil was also quite explicit about this when he talked about his quest for the Dutch dream, the Dutch dream. I also sketched that you see a change of heart. One departs from the exclusively cosmopolitan on the one hand and exclusive nationalism...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u300	Yeah, he heard the whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u301	... which is done by the right on the other hand, and there is a search for an inclusive nationalism. Now, at the end of the previous cabinet period, the Labour Party also made a plea for progressive patriotism. I wonder what Mr Van Dijk says in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u302	Thank you for the question, because I am very pleased both by the story of Mr Özdil and by Mr Heerma. I see that more and more people are turning away, because those people are working on their own environment. If you just keep thinking cosmopolitanly, you get alienated from a lot of people here in society who think: it's not about me, it's not about my worries. What people are proud of and what I think we should all be proud of is the foundation of our society: our welfare state, our achievements and our values. I think we should put that out. I think that's the binder of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u303	At the end of the previous cabinet period there was quite a lot of discussion about the participation declaration. Not only was there support for this in the Chamber, but the Labour Party clearly indicated that it wanted to continue along that road as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u304	Thank you for that question. This has been ridiculed, but this is an important moment for people who are new to the Netherlands. Then they get to know the Netherlands, the Dutch welfare state and the Dutch values. People also come in their best clothes to sign that statement. That is an emotional moment for them because they really become Dutcher and therefore also become part of this beautiful country, sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u305	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u306	Mr. Chairman. Street schoffie's plasterer now. I read that in the A.D. last month. A few years ago, I didn't know what plaster was, I read. Ali, who says this, recently has an MBO 2 degree and a job at a maintenance company. Like dozens of other young people in the apprenticeship company of the brothers Peet and Michel Traub, he received a second or even third or fourth chance. It is a wonderful example here from The Hague where people look at each other and count everyone and get opportunities. That is the ideal of the Christian Union and the ideal of many parties and colleagues here in Parliament. Everyone's talent is valuable. The Christian Union sees it as the first responsibility to use that talent for good. Work occupies an important place because it contributes to the whole of well-being, prosperity and, above all, our own well-being. Work is just nice. You're part of it. But for the Christian Union there is more than money and paid work. Mutual care and solidarity offer a hopeful counterweight to individualism and materialism. We attach great importance to freedom of choice when combining work and care. That is why my group is also content with measures in the government agreement on taxes, allowances, child benefit and partner leave that increase freedom of choice. Mr Gijs van Dijk and others have already discussed the SCP report that we have recently received. We are indeed a strong and beautiful country. I would also like to thank Mr Heerma for his plea for healthy patriotism. But there's also a "but." The SCP report also sees a number of persistent problems and inequalities. There is a group of about 5% that is not very good for it and that has little potential for improvement. It has already been said: 1 million people live in poverty, 6% of the Dutch. There's a lot of kids there, too. And there are contradictions that are getting bigger, such as between low- and high-educated people, between healthy and unhealthy people or as they say in England: the somewheres and the anywheres, the people who feel comfortable everywhere they live, and the people who are very attached to their village or their city or their neighborhood. There are great differences in workers' chances of moving forward. For people with disabilities it is still difficult to get a job. There are too many people living close to or below the poverty line despite work. For them, wages are low and the risks are high, for example because they work as poorly insuredzzp'er or in a temporary employment. A good step, in addition to lower charges, is, of course, making flex more expensive and making fixed contracts cheaper. It is logical that almost everything that is flex is more expensive, but it does not seem to apply to labour. We need to do something about that. How does the Minister view this? What is he going to do to actually change this? We must prevent new constructions from being devised to reduce people's pay and to undermine working conditions. The Cabinet has ruled that the DBA Act is not satisfactory and wants to replace it. Can the Minister outline a little more about what a new law should look like? The Minister also wants to see whether premium differentiation in the WW can contribute to making a fixed contract more attractive. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this idea is at the heart of the problem, more so than the other proposals contained in his letter last week. I would therefore like to encourage the Minister to do so and then take measures to ensure that there is a fairer price tag for flexible short-term contracts. I would like to hear from the Minister what period the idea of premium differentiation will have been considered and when we can expect concrete proposals on this matter. Of course, this point cannot be separated from thezzp discussion. According to a recent study, 78% of the self-employed do not have disability insurance. A large part of them would actually like that. Can I challenge the Minister to set himself the goal of doubling the number ofzzp'ers who do have insurance during this cabinet period? We expect this cabinet to take real steps that will lead to a fairer labour market. We encourage the Minister to seek the support of the social partners. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to get more people with disabilities to work. That is a very good goal. There will be money to help 20,000 more people to special sheltered workplaces, on top of the 30,000 that municipalities would already provide. Again, that is a good plan, but it is not easy for municipalities to reach the current figure of 30,000. I would therefore like to see concrete plans as quickly as possible on how extra sheltered workplaces will be implemented. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter with my colleague from D66 in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u307	Mr. Özdil, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u308	I have another question about what Mr Bruins said about insurance forzzp'ers. He himself mentioned the goal of doubling the number of insuredzzp'ers. He asked the Minister whether and how he intends to do so. My question to the Christian Union is: does the Christian Union agree with me thatzzp'ers should be able to earn enough money to pay for their own insurance, so that we actually make that free choice real?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u309	I can, of course, agree with the earlier interrupting debate in which you also mentioned it. We have in the coalition agreement the plan to choose different salary limits: you are or are not automaticallyzzp'er in that gap. The hourly wage that we have chosen as the top of the first disc, and which is also somewhat flexible, does indeed provide room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u310	I would also like to make a comment on this. If I understand correctly, the Christian Union also says that a minimum rate between €15 and €18 forzzp'ers should be enough to take out social insurance. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u311	I would very much like to see the precise calculations and a concrete plan in which all nitty-gritty ins and outs have been worked out, because there are a lot of technical details about this. If you are a selfemployed person, you should basically have the space to take out disability insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u312	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u313	I was talking about the sheltered workplaces. We see the plan to convert labour cost subsidies into pay dispensation for people with disabilities. This would reduce the administrative burden on employers. This can help to make it easier for them to hire people with disabilities. I ask the Secretary of State if she will keep track of whether that effect will actually occur, because that is an important point if we are to make that transition now. What are the effects on the income position of the target group in the short and long term? I would like to see an overview of that. And will the administrative burden no longer lie with people with disabilities? The logical answer is yes. The precise implementation of this scheme determines how social or non-social this new scheme will become. However, I welcome the initial points of departure, the contours, which the Secretary of State formulated in her letter on this subject. The income of these people must be higher than the social minimum for them. That is a lot more social than the fact that the opponents originally thought that this arrangement would come out on the basis of the text of the coalition agreement. The way I read it now, the bottom line should be that when people start working and work more, they get better. Furthermore, their income must go to a minimum wage level in proportion to the number of hours they work. That sounds really social. But does this mean that they can also rise above the minimum wage? The change in policy also has implications for pension and holiday money. It's already been mentioned. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to ensure that these consequences are mitigated? Anyway, we'd like to keep the Secretary of State on the contours of her letter. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the position of the Wajangers. They were here this afternoon. Can they, if they work partially, grow beyond the minimum wage? For the Christian Union, it is important that everyone's talents can be used, because diversity in the workplace is important for every organisation. And we're gonna need those Wajangers, too, because we're shorthanded on the labour market. Mr. Chairman. In principle, the Christian Union believes it is right that the AOW age should be raised as life expectancy increases. However, people in heavy occupations remain a clear focus. Often they start out young in the labour market and thus complete a considerable number of years of service. Moreover: if you do physically heavy work, your body can no longer handle it if you are 50- or 55-plus. Moreover, part of this group's life expectancy is lower than average. What exactly is a difficult profession is terribly difficult to define, and the number of years of service is something we have never administered in the last half century. Does the Minister see a solution to this problem of the people in the heavy professions? After all, working is a blessing, but it is important that people can endure until they can enjoy their well-deserved rest. That is what our party is genuinely concerned about. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister invites the social partners to discuss sustainable employability. In addition, the government agreement contains a passage on making part-time retirement easier. How does the Minister intend to implement this? Mr. Chairman. One point I have not yet heard in this Chamber is that of social return. In recent years, too little is being devoted to social return in the case of large infra-procurement. This is an approach to create more jobs for people who are remote from the labour market. Buyers of public authorities may, when awarding procurement contracts, require the contractor to involve vulnerable groups in the labour market in the execution of the contract. A successful example in the region is the A4 Central Delfland, as well as the invitation to tender by Rijkswaterstaat van de Zeesluis IJmuiden. Part of the tender for this lock of about 400 million was a plan of approach with social return. The winner of the tender thus undertook to provide at least 200 fte of people with a distance from the labour market and to train them as skilled workers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss the principle of social return with the colleagues from IenW, who deal with infrastructure, and with EZ, who deals with procurement? Is it prepared to discuss the principle of social return with those colleagues, with provinces and municipalities, in order to see if this can be used more often or perhaps by default in large infra-procurement? And very specific: the A16's tender is coming up. The public procurement guidance does not mention the use of social return, while in nearby Rotterdam, where the minister is also good at home, about 40,000 people live with a distance from the labour market? I am surprised that a city such as Rotterdam has missed this opportunity, especially since Rotterdam, as a co-licensing provider, has had a great deal of influence on the tender. Is the Secretary of State prepared to raise this matter and see what is possible there? Mr. Chairman. In the Autumn note, we see a relatively large under-utilisation of the SZW budget through the phase-out of the sector plans. These sectoral plans have been seriously behind schedule for years. Already in 2015 the plans came in the news negative, because then Minister Asscher counted internships for mbo's among others as newly created jobs. How's it going now? Are the directors really going to take a different approach so that we can really create suitable new jobs and not just very expensive levels of subsidies? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement has a solid paragraph on debt and poverty: Maximising the accumulation of fines, tackling debt collection abuses, an experiment with a debtor, a nationwide network of debt relief and financial support and combating poverty, especially among children. Can the Secretary of State give an overview or at least an indication of when we can expect action in this important policy area? And how will the Secretary of State involve the municipalities? This needs to be picked up soon. Finally, Mr President, we would like to draw attention to the position of volunteers. Many volunteers face practical problems that make it unnecessarily difficult for them. For example, travel costs are difficult to declare or get reimbursed. This applies, for example, to WW's doing voluntary work, or to asylum seekers. I ask the rulers: can this not be done more simply? That seems important to me, because people who want to work in vain for our society must be encouraged and obstacles that hinder them must be removed as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. I started with entrepreneurs, the Traub brothers, who put Ali in the collar and said, "I'm gonna teach you a job and I'm gonna give you a job." Remove barriers and give opportunities, that is what the Christian Union wants to achieve, so that more people like the Traub brothers from The Hague are given the opportunity to give opportunities to those who want and can work and to reach out to those who want but can't. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u315	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has asked its constituents whether it has "confidence in the future." That is the motto of the coalition agreement. We are currently processing conversations with people in the country in a booklet, which we would like to offer to the Minister in the first quarter of 2018. Does the Minister want to take the notebook and talk to these people? Mr. Chairman. Employment is on the increase. However, for the low-skilled, it is mainly precarious jobs that come with it. At the same time, the cabinet sees the reduction of fixed work and the reduction of flex work as the key to a fairer and balanced labour market. A new balance should be struck between security and labour market opportunities, but is that balance to be struck? When we speak with young flex forces, with older job seekers and with Wajangers, we see that there is no balance and that they have little confidence in the future. Does the Cabinet understand the problems and concerns of these people? With the proposed policy, all in all, employers' interests seem to be better served than employees' interests. According to 50PLUS, the balance sheet for employees is still far from being reached in the coalition agreement. The fixed contract should be the norm according to 50PLUS. But what do we see? On balance, the cabinet chooses to undermine the fixed contract: the rules of dismissal are relaxed, temporary contracts can be offered longer in succession, the probation period is extended to five months, measures to make flexible work more expensive and therefore unattractive, there are hardly any and nowhere is the flex addiction of employers really broken. And people with a temporary contract who get sick are completely screwed. They can pay €3,000 per year. 50PLUS believes that self-employed workers are still vulnerable in the labour market. Market failures remain the norm. There is insufficient guarantee for a decent wage for the self-employed. There's a minimum rate. Salute for this first step, but is it a realistic hourly wage? Can you be economically independent from €18 per hour and pay a pension and disability insurance? Why do we not give self-employed people the right to negotiate collectively? Why is there no decent collective and therefore cheaper compulsory disability insurance? Now people are taking the risk of being uninsured and not building a pension. And if there are problems in the end, society has to pay for them. Aren'tzzp'ers going to be the poor of the future? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, a work-form neutral, compulsory pension is introduced for all workers. 50PLUS believes that sustainable employability for both young and old should become the cornerstone of labour market policy. The cabinet advocates a cultural change for older people in the labour market, but remains vague about its own stimulating role and responsibility. Despite the good work done by Ambassador Elder Unemployment John de Wolf, much remains to be done to remove prejudices about older people from employers. Is this Minister going to do the same? Or does he think the work is done now? 50PLUS aims to further address older people's unemployment along the following lines. Continue to stimulate labour cost lowering measures. Form a genuinely inviting national training scheme for all, without the obligation of a start-up qualification. Let people themselves save for education and also charge for the transition fee, we think is unwise. I'd like a response. And make even more work of personal guidance for job seekers in the WW and the assistance. Special attention should be paid to job seekers in the assistance. The municipality of Emmen shows how people can be helped to work. A temporary job at the municipality, combined with compulsory vocational training, leads to permanent jobs within or outside the municipality. Will the Minister support such initiatives? 50PLUS also calls for a strong plan of action against discrimination in application procedures. Anonymous and without an indication of age apply should become the norm. Let the government set a good example by employing and keeping older people. Can that be promised? Improving the position of older people in the labour market is a long-term issue, but what can we do now? 50PLUS considers that the principle of reflection in the event of dismissal, which is applied to reorganisations, should also be applied when hiring employees. Does the new minister embrace this idea? The chances of getting a job are falling dramatically over 50 years. That's a structural fact. For older workers who, despite their efforts, become unemployed, the income provision for older unemployed, the IOW, is extended by four years in the coalition agreement. We really think that is a step in the right direction. But what would it cost to reduce the age limit of the IOW from 60 to 55 or 50 years? Can an ex-post and ex-ante calculation be provided for this purpose? 50PLUS also wants 55-plussers who are unemployed for a year to be treated less rigidly, especially with regard to the job application obligation. How does the Minister see this? What possibilities does he see? Mr. Chairman. Work has to pay off. In this context, with regard to the IOW, I would like to give you an example of a 60-year-old gentleman who, after years of work, is dependent on an IOW benefit. He has three different zero-hour contracts, sometimes having a few days' work and sometimes a whole week. But the municipality only looks at gross extra earnings. It deducts the municipality from the gross benefit. This means that in the month when there is work and he receives payouts from three different parties, tax deductions leave net less than if only a benefit comes in. So working doesn't pay off. Then what incentive do we send out to these people? Shouldn't a municipality look at net income? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Almost seven million Dutch people invest one billion hours of their time every year voluntarily and unpaidly in our society. These volunteers are priceless and indispensable. We call on the Empire and municipalities to investigate how to invest in a coherent support of these volunteers. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. According to 50PLUS, this cabinet does too little for vulnerable groups. What we see is displacement at the bottom of the labour market between the different groups, the Wajangers, sheltered work, people who do receive wage subsidies, people who do not receive wage subsidies and people who used to be in social employment services with a collective agreement. And that while financial resources from municipalities are too limited, making it cheaper to leave someone behind the geraniums than to have a job coach accompany them. More than 70,000 people with a Wajong benefit will be cut as of 1 January with the aim of stimulating them to find jobs that are not there. Is that the CDA's caring society? Is that mercy according to the Christian Union? Is that the government of the VVD that wants to be shielded from the weak? We don't get this. We heard from Lidia in the conversation with the permanent Chambers Committee that it means €70 net decline for her. And that's a lot for these people who are already struggling to be economically independent. Don't blame people for their health restrictions. The Wajong discount must be cancelled and we have tabled an amendment to that effect. The financial resources for potentially 20,000 extra places for sheltered work are nice, but are found by moving from wage subsidy to wage dispensation in the Participation Act. Half a billion savings and from now on working under minimum wage: that's the bottom line. What do you mean, work pays? As far as we are concerned, this is a gross cut over the back of one of the most vulnerable groups. These people do not have a collective agreement and do not build up a pension, and that is what the government has to offer this group. No wonder they have little faith in the future. And all without waiting for the promised evaluation of these wage instruments. That's crazy! What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? Is it not time for a delta plan for the bottom of the labour market, so that there is no displacement? I'd like a response. Can I get a response from the Secretary of State to the exploration of the Economic and Social Council on the social infrastructure for vulnerable groups within the Participation Act? The ESC points to the desirability of a coherent social infrastructure and to take advantage of the current expertise and knowledge of SW companies. What exactly is going to happen to this? In the future, in the so-called non-wage-related follow-up phase of their benefit, fully disabled beneficiaries will also have to meet the income requirement. They must make use of half of their remaining earning capacity. If they do not succeed, they will receive their allowance on the basis of the minimum wage and no longer on the basis of their previous salary. This too is intended as an incentive to work. According to 50PLUS, this is again a blunt austerity measure for people who are already in a difficult situation. If they do not manage to find work, it may just give a hundred euros of benefit. There are still hundreds of thousands of job seekers on the side, including many young people and older people who are healthy and eager to work. Help them get to work before you start bullying and cutting Wajongers, people with sheltered jobs or completely disabled people on their benefits. I'd like a response. 50PLUS calls for attention to be paid to the re-examination of people who have been rejected for 35%. This group has grown considerably in recent years. How can this be explained? And how can it be explained that people are rejected for, for example, 34.6%? How is it that such a percentage is rejected to the nearest decimal place, exactly below 35%? Does this happen consciously to cut back? The re-checking machine at the UWV seems ruthless. We are getting signals from people who are being approved without a substantial change in their health situation. Does the Minister recognize this? We also hear disturbing stories about targets that would be sent to UWV. Can I assume that the objective, factual abilities and health of people are always leading, and not the reduction in the amount of benefit? Can the Minister see what quality the UWV delivers? I'd like a thorough response. Against the 60% of so-called 35-minners is unemployed. In October, the previous minister did not promise that the UWV will personally accompany all 35-minners to work. Is this minister really up to the challenge? These people really need to be helped to get a job. Mr. Chairman. I come to the older generations of war victims. Our feeling is that the Social Insurance Bank is trying to limit the profession of very vulnerable, highly aged victims of war on facilities. Is that impression correct? Why does the human size sometimes seem to be missing here? Can the Secretary of State tell us how many applications have been made in the last two years? How many have been awarded? How long was the duration of the application until the date of the benefit? How long has it been paid out? And what was the average age of the applicants? I would like to ask the Secretary of State to speak with the SVB in any case and to have coulance with this vulnerable, high-age group. I would like a commitment on this point. Mr President, poverty and debt policy. In 2003, 34,000 people came in for debt relief. Last year there were 90,000. One in ten households have problematic debts. In large cities such as Amsterdam and Rotterdam, about a quarter of people live below the poverty line. Poverty and debt are persistent in our prosperous Netherlands. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau confirms that the picture of debts and seizures in the Netherlands is still incomplete. The CBS does not have complete data on late payments and does not know how many people live by confiscating a minimum of existence. For example, how many people today have to live on an unwound foot and how should they do so, especially when you realize that VAT is being increased, energy taxes are rising and the rent surcharge is being reduced? What is the cabinet going to do to get a better picture of poverty and debt? The new cabinet says it is aware of the debt problem. We read the intentions of the cabinet. These sound theoretically fine, but how is this worked out? And can you explain the experiment with the debtor? Unfortunately, the government itself still plays the role of a kind of debt doubler. Just think of the tax department's fine if you pay late or if you double or triple a traffic ticket if you don't pay on time. In short, the government itself increases the risk of debt growth. Municipal social lending also brings people on the edge, with interest rates of up to 13%. Can the Secretary of State provide insight into who is socially borrowed? What age group do these people fall into, and why do these people rely on municipal social lending? And why is this system set up per municipality, creating such huge differences in interest rates? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the design of a nationwide covering system of appropriate social lending? I'd like a response. The emergence of debt is not always a question of unwillingness. 50PLUS believes that low literacy, partly due to the emergence of poverty and debt, should be addressed. An increase in the budget by 5 million a year seems to us to be lean. I'd like a response. Now provide one permanent contact officer, who helps people with the application procedure for debt relief and who provides all the necessary amenities and surcharges. Take care helps. People are stuck in bureaucratic mills and this must be avoided. What does the Secretary of State think of the VNG's proposal to tackle non-cooperating creditors? As soon as the municipality has calculated the redemption capacity and an offer has been established, the debt settlement will start. After that, creditors must cooperate. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has asked people on welfare benefits if they are high enough. And the conclusion was: as a short safety net it can be done, but for a longer period it is really insufficient. People who have to live on this have little or no confidence in the future, because despite municipal complementary policies, they are on the verge of balancing and financially very easily stalled. An example of the municipality of Utrecht shows that a family with two children is running out of €200 each month and is automatically further in debt. Nibud figures confirm this. 50PLUS notes that there is an urgent need to improve the coordination of local minimum schemes and national minimum schemes. Because this alignment is now inadequate, people with a social minimum may be substantially lacking. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? We also call for the rapid conclusion of the study on the social minimum in the Caribbean Netherlands. I come to the BUIG funds, with which, among other things, assistance obligations have to be paid by the municipality. I refer to the UNG motion last June and the current UNG comment: the budget is not sufficient. The distribution system remains problematic. In addition, there is the task of undoing the poverty trap in the municipalities. How's the cabinet gonna fix this? Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible how different municipalities deal with the cohabitation penalty, the cost sharing standard. Isn't it time to stop counting toothbrushes and abolish the cohabitation penalty altogether? So perhaps the participatory society is getting a step closer. Mr President, I will conclude. The social policy of this cabinet has a few pluses, but unfortunately also many minuses, which mainly end up in vulnerable groups. Trust in the future requires more than the paper reality of this cabinet. Trust must be earned by taking not one targeted part, but all Dutch people, all ethnic groups, all generations. We must offer as many equal opportunities as possible, and we must allow the various groups to share equally in the wealth growth available. This is the only way to open the way to an inclusive participatory society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u316	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, also on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. Tonight three topics in fifteen minutes, so not five hours, let alone fifteen hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u318	Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u319	Yes. 50PLUS asks whether this cabinet is prepared not only to allow workers, but to allow all people in the Netherlands to benefit more from the economic recovery. 50PLUS believes that more work should finally be done on equal purchasing power development for workers, people unable to work and people who have worked. The cabinet mainly favours the working middle groups. They're making the most of it. 50PLUS points out that, with all the fine words about increasing purchasing power and reducing costs for all, 400 000 seem not normal households for whom no increase in purchasing power is expected, but rather a decrease in purchasing power. This also applies to more than 400,000 pensioners, who get nothing from them or who get less purchasing power in this cabinet period. Is the cabinet gonna do anything for them? If not, why not? I would like to thank the Minister for his answer to our fifth question in the budget on the development of the purchasing power of older people and workers. We see large differences between the various groups, but unfortunately the weighting per category is missing. Can that be added? It goes without saying that we had hoped for an extension of the well-known CBS purchasing power chart for the period 2000-2015. The answer to questions 115 and 116 doesn't come either. However, the explanatory statement states that the dynamic purchasing power equation on the basis of which we in this Chamber each year adjust the purchasing power of specific groups is basically a comparison between apples and pears. It's a good thing you said it yourself. Each purchasing power perspective has its limitations, but an extension of the CBS overview, which we have asked for, is an equally good and relevant perspective as far as we are concerned. There are real people behind that, too, and it gives more continuity in the flow of information. Fortunately, the Nibud also spoke. That scared the hell out of us. In particular, the comparison between working partners and retired partners sketches a staggering picture of the choices made by this cabinet. Look at pages 14 and 15 of the Nibud report if you want to see it at two glances. This is not a balanced purchasing power development, and that is certainly not the over-deserved catch-up for older people that we are committed to. Some people think 50PLUS is overreacting, but I'll tell you even more. All the mins in the Nibud report are in the elderly and also only in the elderly. Is this minister really gonna defend that or is he gonna do something about it? What could you do about it? That's not so hard: stop discrimination. Fiscal age discrimination is contrary to equal treatment, including equal tax treatment. There are too many examples left, and I can assure you that the elderly have not forgotten that. Older people have lost their minds over the past ten years in the piles of burdens. There has been a real hit list in the field of taxation alone. I call them. Indirect fiscalisation of the AOW. Introduction of the Forest tax. Significant increase in the income-dependent health insurance premium. The Law on the Uniformization of Wage Concepts. Not to mention it in the 5 billion tax reduction package. Abolition of the elderly allowance. The old-age discount is extremely disadvantaged when it comes to the employment discount; it is not yet half. Reduce the elderly discount extremely quickly. Finally, last but not least, the abolition of the Hills Act, the redemption fine. Finally, they are not the least organisations and individuals who have recently been pointing to lagging wage developments, especially in relation to our tight labour market. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, the labour income ratio does not even affect the long-term average for the time being. That would require an intervention, I would ask the Minister. It's possible. The Netherlands has not only a surplus in the budget, but also a huge surplus in the current account. Not a twin deficit, but a twin surplus. That means something. In view of this, I would ask the Minister: what additional measures are you going to take to strengthen wage developments? Mr President, the second block, pensions. I believe the Minister is looking forward to it, because he already asked me whether I would also use the word 'disconto-foot'. Let's wait and see! What I'm about to tell you is the facts. The funds invested by pension funds are intended to give creditors, owners of pension funds, the pension they are entitled to. Those are the participants, the sleepers and the pensioners. The accusation that 50PLUS and our supporters always hear again is that the pots are being eaten by pensioners and that there is nothing left for young people. But then you didn't understand, or you don't want to understand. On the basis of all the historical data available, it is not even technically possible either, because whatever interest rate we apply to the coverage rate, as long as a high return is actually made over the years, the ability is growing. That was and is the case. Then why is the calculation of the coverage rate of pension funds so extremely conservative? Because pension funds are obliged to assume a risk-free interest rate and therefore a liquidation scenario. That is the real problem of the so-called unsustainability of our supplementary pension system. The strange thing, however, is that well-thinking people who question the illogical and destructive rules are dismissed as incompetent and self-centered. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a good pension system, and we want our children and grandchildren to be able to say that. With personal pension assets, we lose that once and for all, and the Minister himself often seems to be in favour of the most far-reaching and the least supportive variants. Is it true, for example, that calculations have been made within the Economic and Social Committee on the development of the possible intermediate variant for a new system based on individual positions of retired, younger and older workers respectively? Does the Minister know these calculations and their conclusions? Is the Minister prepared to make these calculations and conclusions available to the Chamber? And if not, why not? Could he ask the ESC to give us those calculations, if necessary confidentially? There's a year's worth and we don't know anything about it. Mr. Chairman. Pension funds are more like cooperatives than insurance companies, thank goodness. Members are not only customers, but also owners. This important fact seems to some people in this house to be completely ignored on a regular basis. A major pension reform, however you set it up, is also an expropriation and redistribution. Moreover, Article 83 of the Pension Act also gives members the right to object to the transition to another system. And bear in mind my words: Article 83 is now going to block the transition to an individual system. I am sure the Minister remembers the term 'entry' which came from me when I proposed the introduction of the so-called real contract. I cried out: we are going to Strasbourg! And gone was the real contract. Can the Minister explain how he appreciates Article 83 of the Pension Act in this respect at the moment? I'm really not a crying out in the desert. Han de Jongh, chief economist of ABN AMRO, rightly pointed out at a lecture on 28 November, the Bismarck lecture, the false assumption that an individual system would reduce interest rate sensitivity. That's pertinently incorrect, he says. Moreover, the current system can be made much less interest-dependent without a major reform with personal jars, says De Jongh. In addition, I would like to highlight the stress test of pension funds carried out by EIOPA in December this year. This shows that the Netherlands will be the lowest weighted gross domestic product in the world, Minister! Of the 15 countries examined, the discount rate is the only one with a buffer requirement on top of that. Today in NRC we read that one of Teuling's most widely read articles, dated 17 April 2017, was: Retirement and the like of Krol. Just so you know. Mr. Chairman. Of course, that stress test says a lot. More recently, there have been other big boys who have looked at our pension system with strange eyes. In October the results of an international study group, the ICPM, the International Centre for Pension Management in Toronto came out. I will have a power point presentation of the report and the conclusions distributed through the messenger; I will give it to you in advance. It's in English; sages from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u320	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u321	The conclusions are crystal clear: a social contract is replaced, according to that report, by a financial contract of individual accounts. This goes into this, these foreigners say, against many values that Dutch society is built on. The problems are manageable and in fact short-term. The proposed reform affects the co-operative nature of the Dutch pension system and seems to be too radical a solution to a problem. According to the authors, this amounts to a huge risk transfer from the collective to the individual. Finally, they ask the question: Are the Dutch prepared for that? No, is the answer of 50PLUS, but what is the Minister's answer? We have a short-term problem with the pension system. That is what 50PLUS thinks, and as far as that is very acute, I have already taken action. In January, we will be discussing in this Chamber the generation-neutral initiative proposal, Van Rooijen, for a temporary 2% bottom interest rate. The reduction of pensions resulting from the ECB's manipulation of interest rates is unnecessary and unacceptable. As a result of the fall in arithmetic interest rates in recent years, there has already been a shift of 100 billion dollars, a figure that Pieter Omtzigt has also regularly mentioned in this Chamber: pension capital from old to young. The proportion of older people went from 38% to 31%, Mercer said in February. Enough is real enough. The aim of the initiative proposal is not to index, but only to avoid reductions that may inevitably occur in 2020. I could also speak on this subject for hours today, as you know; I will not do so because many others have joined us since our proposal was tabled. Anyway, this is all discussed extensively in the upcoming discussion of the initiative law after the ceremony, so you all have plenty of time to take it right from 50PLUS. Finally, the AOW age. December 7 was, as far as I am concerned, a happy day. This does not happen every day, as you understood after yesterday: the Hills Act which has been abolished. The concrete wall of parties and institutes that for years has been firmly blocking any movement in the area of the AOW age has fallen apart. What happened? The Central Planning Bureau has caused a crack in the concrete wall of institutional unwillingness. In that little crack we put our 50PLUS foot; you can see it in front of you. To illustrate this, I quote briefly from the interview with Laura van Geest in Het Financieele Dagblad. The CPB believes that the government can also look at the high rate of increase in the AOW age. This is already in 2022 at 67 years and three months, because the increase in age is linked to increasing life expectancy. Van Geest recalls that, under pressure from the economic crisis, this variant was chosen after the government had long hid against increasing the AOW age. As an alternative, politics can spread the age increase over the coming years over a slightly longer period than, for example, adding three months each year. The present generation of older people has had less time to prepare for longer working hours. So the 50-plussers to 65. Of course, for 50PLUS, this is far from the spoils, but our arsenal to attack this minister about the increase in the age of AOW and its consequences have now grown with this figurative crowbar. I predict: it will become increasingly difficult for the cabinet not to move in the area of the AOW age. That's a win, but it's not gonna happen on its own. This is evident from the disappointing letter from Minister Koolmees and his disappointing interview this morning in the Volkskrant. Laura van Geest gave consideration to a number of generic measures in the area of the AOW age in Het Financieele Dagblad, but the minister does not want to. Why is that? Of course, we are not looking for a little delay. 50PLUS wants to reduce the AOW age to 65 years of age. That's not news. And that can be easy. That's not news either. The billions that this cabinet is throwing away, 13 billion in this period, show very clearly that lowering the age of AOW is only a political choice. My mother would say, "Where there's a will, there's a law." The Minister knows that the ageing of the Netherlands is less extensive than in many other European countries. In addition, we have paid contributions for funded pensions, which represent as much as two thirds of all pension savings in Europe. But do these favourable principles also lead to social benefits for the population of the Netherlands? A lower retirement age perhaps, a realistic calculation rate? None of that! At our eastern neighbors, the link to life expectancy has already been broken. Angela Merkel made that very clear during her election campaign. Its starting point is that it is unrealistic to assume that, after 67 years, it can still be expected that the largest proportion of people can still work. The German population is considerably more aged than that of our country, but yet politics is doing wisely there and the working age stops at 67 years. If we add the simple fact that the second pillar pension in the Netherlands is much more regulated and financed than in Germany, then again our conclusion is justified that the Netherlands has more room for a generous basic pension and a lower retirement age than Germany. What is the point of having the best system in the world if there is no social advantage for the participants compared to countries that are far less prudent on this issue? Germany is not even a real worry child in this respect. It should be clear that economic and financial increases in the AOW age were not necessary. Returning to the good old days is in this case not an unfounded 50PLUS nostalgia, but a realistic desire of a very large part of the Dutch population. Now that the Central Planning Bureau is moving, 50PLUS already sees it for itself: the cabinet will probably propose to slow down the increase in the AOW-age a little after a long-standing fight with the Chamber. Not essential, of course, because it shouldn't cost anything. We can get a Band-Aid for a cannon shot and if I taste the atmosphere well, the cabinet wants to shoot the elderly today and especially later on in exchange for that Band-Aid. In return for nothing more than a tiny delay in raising the AOW age, we should massively agree to an unproven mega-developed reform of our precious pension system. Speculation or not, we can already see the mood. But read my lips: no new pension system. And no tying of the AOW and the second pillar. Can the Minister undertake to do so? For these systems are truly separate from each other, with the exception of the retirement age. 50PLUS represents a lower AOW age and an appropriate improvement in the second pillar pension. We also find the FNV on our side. On 13 December, the union sent a letter of fire with the message: stop the accelerated increase in the AOW age and stop the automatic link to life expectancy. We have tabled an amendment to increase the AOW benefits by an additional 2% next year, on top of normal indexation. We are in favour of a controlled but serious catch-up, and this amendment is a first step. We are also aware that not all of our roommates are already convinced of a reduction in the age of AOW to 65. That is a pity, but we will also give the doubters in this house the best opportunity to move. This Chamber has stepped away from an AOW age of 65. Through our AOW-movements of tomorrow she can also move back to it step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u322	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to start by picking up a whole list of shared memories with the Minister and the Secretary of State, but actually I only have one. We have had a debate over the last week, a general discussion, on integration and integration, and in that we have been able to get to know the Minister's vision of integration and integration, and I must say that I like it. What matters is integration, the work of the language and the short-term inventory of what people who can come here and thus contribute to society, that is fine. The Minister has also been able to familiarise himself with our position on integration and acceptance. We say very clearly that integration is not something for people who have lived here for decades or people who have been born and raised here. You shouldn't integrate it. You have to accept it. Integration is for newcomers. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no problem of integration, as is often said. According to DENK, there is an acceptance problem. Because in a convincing way, countless delays are quickly caught up, eliminated, of people who have lived here for generations. They must therefore be accepted. They should above all be addressed as a Dutchman. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he does not want, like his predecessor, to pose as some sort of minister of distrust of minorities, but as a minister who really stands for the interests of all Dutch people. Mr President, so much for integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u324	I'm getting very strict now, Mr Van Dijk. You've done a lot of interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u325	Then let me make one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u326	Just one little comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u327	Reference was made to the predecessor. It stood for all Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yeah, I don't agree with that. Because if a Minister of Integration is carrying out a bullshit study in which a large group of young people, Turkish-Dutch young people, are placed as IS-sympathisant, we are talking 87% and 83% of Moroccan-Dutch young people, then you are not as far as I am concerned. But we have talked about this enough often, even during the last debate on integration and integration. I can give you many other examples. As Mrs Dijksma did during the VWS budget debate, I can do so in a very slow manner, if you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u329	Well, it's 10:30...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u330	I did not really want to give Mr Van Dijk the floor anymore, but if you react in this way, he must also respond. So last chance and then I suggest you move on. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the record, reference is made to an investigation. Back then, Deputy Prime Minister Asscher has largely distanced himself from his ruling on this matter. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u332	Yes, Mr President, I have to respond to that, because that has also been the Asscher method in recent years: throwing a big bucket of mud over a group and then indicating that he is the only one who can save that group. Anyway, we talked about that extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u333	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u334	I would now like to turn to what we really stand for today: the budgetary treatment of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. As far as we are concerned, this is one of the most important ministries, because this ministry is concerned with the DENK Group's work on important values and principles. I refer to the link between individual and collective responsibility and solidarity between them. I also mention equality and justice. I refer to the fight against racism and discrimination. On these issues, values and principles, I would like to base my input today. Mr. Chairman. I start with the principle of connection, and then I end up at the polder. As far as we are concerned, this minister has the most important task of linking employers and employees in a social agreement. DENK regrets that it has not been possible to reach a social agreement. We really only have one question to the Minister: why have the talks failed, collapsed? And can he give a clear analysis of this? I know there are partial agreements on the ride, but I would like more insight into how the Minister looks at them. Mr. Chairman. I come to the theme of justice. Then, of course, I have no choice but to deal with the discount on the Wajong and the handling of disabled people. Why does this cabinet, which made it a spearhead that all Dutch people should feel the recovery, intend to apply a 5% discount to the Wajong benefit? Why does this cabinet choose to take away young disabled people €60 per month in economically favourable times? Are these not ordinary, normal Dutch people, as our Prime Minister points out? The discount on the Wajong has been announced in economic bad times. Now that there's room to give gifts to shareholders and multinationals, shouldn't this cabinet be able to spare the Wajongers? Is the cabinet prepared to do so? And is the cabinet aware of the extent to which the often fragile situation of many Wajongers is only aggravated by this blunt saving? Mr. Chairman. Last month, the Social and Cultural Planning Office concluded that 50% of companies do not want to employ people with disabilities. The government is doing even worse than this and setting a bad example when it should set a good example. So even now that things are getting better economically, people with disabilities are not getting up to speed. So this cabinet simply throws a discount of €60 per month on the benefit on top. Does the Minister understand that this is unfair? It is also unfair what this cabinet intends to do with the incomes of workers with disabilities. "New cabinet makes working under minimum wage possible," headlined Trouw in October. With the replacement of the wage subsidy by wage dispensation, people with disabilities receive a contract of employment with wages that may fall below the statutory minimum wage. For an additional benefit, they must contact the government, which may or may not honour this request. People who work under the minimum wage and high income uncertainty, that is what this cabinet provides in a period of now greater economic growth than just before the crisis. I really do not understand why a government with a budget surplus of billions chooses to hit Wajongers and people with disabilities hard. Can the rulers explain this, not to me, but to the people who it's about? These people are hit hard by policy. DENK stands for this cabinet to work on a standard so that people with disabilities can never work under the statutory minimum wage. That's gotta be a bottom. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Another point that touches on the principle of justice is the AOW-hole for Dutch people with a Surinamese background. This AOW-hole is due to the build-up system that builds for every year of life from your fifteenth 2% AOW. Of course, people who came to the Netherlands during the period 1975-1980 cannot meet this requirement. These people are now referred to the supplementary income provision of the elderly, abbreviated with AIO. This may mean that, when they claim this, they have to eat their homes or make up their savings. DENK says this isn't fair. The people who lived in Suriname in the period before 1975 lived in the Kingdom of the Netherlands at that time. They were fellow statesmen. Due to an unjust course of our colonial history, these people are now stuck with a hole in their AOW that they can only fill by falling under the strict regime of assistance. And why do these people have to pay for the past anyway? Why have they become a toy of history? The DENK Group sees two options to solve this. Firstly, the abolition of the capital and income test in the AIO for people who were nationals of other parts of the Kingdom before 1975. Or the second option: counting the years of construction for all parts of the Kingdom. There is often talk, in this Chamber but also in society, of compensation for the colonial past, without it really becoming very concrete. The DENK Group believes that a first good step can be taken in this way. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. From the principle of justice I go to the principle of equality. This minister is jointly responsible for combating racism and discrimination in our society; a very important challenge as far as our group is concerned. The most concrete consequence of racism and discrimination is unemployment among young people with a migration background. These young people are doing well in many areas, but they are lagging behind in terms of employment participation. Unfortunately, unemployment is still far too high. 18% of young people with a migration background are unemployed, while the average youth unemployment is 9%, i.e. twice as high. A poignant form of inequality which is also the result of discrimination. My question to the Minister is what he will do about this. What is the government going to do about this? DENK feels at least that it is time to re-establish an ambassador for youth unemployment. Mirjam Strong was this a few years ago. And John the Wolf is doing a good job as an elder ambassador. We are pleased that the ANBO now facilitates this, after SZW has stopped. An ambassador to be appointed for youth unemployment could contribute to combating prejudices against young people with a migration background and helping them to work. Is the Minister prepared to appoint this ambassador and does he see any added value in that? But much more importantly, this cabinet is going to increase the fight against labour market discrimination. Is the Minister prepared to do so? DENK has previously launched a Chain Approach Discrimination, with a broad approach to discrimination. We want to combat discrimination in recruitment and selection with locator applications, and people who have been convicted of discrimination, sanction discrimination with an educational measure and a contact sentence. Is the Minister prepared to introduce these measures? It is also necessary to make more effective use of companies which have proven to be discriminated against. Surely it is not effective if these companies are reported on an ex-post page on the Ministry's website? That has to be much more visible in order to have an effect, doesn't it? I'd like a response from the Minister. But the most important thing is that acceptance policies and anti-discrimination policies will work with targets, with concrete targets that can be settled. Within the emancipation policy of Education, Culture and Science, targets are rightly used, with figures on the acceptance of homosexuality in our society. Is the Minister prepared to work with such targets for anti-discrimination policy as well: figures on the acceptance of people with a migration background, figures on the acceptance of Muslims? Is the Minister prepared to do so? I'd like a response. It is also important that we strengthen enforcement. That is why I ask the Minister what part of the EUR 50 million that will be added to the SZW inspection will go to the labour market discrimination team. When will this team get the opportunity to check for discrimination in recruitment? Finally, I would ask the Minister to work to ensure that more anti-discrimination provisions are included in collective agreements. That is not the primary task of this government, I know, but he can encourage it. I would like to have a clear answer on all my points, because I am considering tabling a motion on all these points. Perhaps the Minister is even prepared to make a number of commitments. That saves and helps to prevent paperwork. Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of the fair labour market. A major concern in this respect is the fluctuating flexibility of the labour market. The coalition agreement contains a number of proposals which may only accelerate this flexibility further. The time limit by which employees are kept on a leash before they get a permanent contract goes from two to three years. The clock is actually reversed. There will be a five-month probationary period in certain cases. The six-month interval between contracts to get out of the chain clause goes back to three months. The transition fee will be reduced again. After the tenth year of work, not half a month's salary is built up, but a third month's salary. After 2008 and 2015, this is the third hollowing out of the canton justice formula. Mr. Chairman. The cumulation measure shall be re-implemented. This means that HR managers will sneak back into personnel files to work out non-functioning workers in their view. This also gives employers a lot of red tape. We have previously asked the Central Planning Bureau what quantitative results all these measures will produce for the labour market. They couldn't give these. That is why I ask the Minister: how many extra jobs, extra fixed contracts and less flex contracts does this cabinet count on as a result of the envisaged contract policy? I would like to hear a clear response and no answers like 'it is not in the models of the Central Planning Bureau' and 'we cannot say much about that at the moment'. Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group welcomes the restriction of payrolling, zero-hour contracts and bogus constructions with zzp'ers. The abuse of these structures causes poignant exploitation that does not belong in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. Can the Minister outline the outline of the new legislation he intends to introduce in 2019? Is there going to be a collective disability insurance scheme forzzp'ers? When can we expect legislation on the collectivisation of the payment of wages in the case of sickness for small businesses? The payment of wages in case of illness is a large hurdle for companies to hire staff and can contribute to the cessation of flexibilisation. Mr President, I have a number of points to make, but I know I have to conclude, so I will skip a few points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u335	You've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u336	Yeah, I know, but I'm gonna have to file motions tomorrow, too, and I think I've got three minutes left. That is why I want to conclude my contribution with what I started with: the shared memory. I already indicated I only had one. We at DENK really hope that during this period we will be able to retrieve a very long list of positive shared memories with this Minister and Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u337	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow we will proceed with the discussion of the Social Affairs budget. Then the rulers will answer in their first term.
