ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 29 April last, Otto Boetes, former senator of the Pacific-Socialist Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 28 February 1967 until 16 September 1969. Otto Meines Boetes was born on 18 August 1923 in Groningen. His father was a procurator and head of accounting at a radio distribution company. After completing the gymnasium, he studied psychology at the Municipal University in Amsterdam for several years. During the course of the Second World War, he studied theology at the baptismal seminary, where he was taught by professors at home. In 1946, Mr Boetes started working as a business psychologist at the General Kunstzijde Unie (AKU) in Arnhem and Ede. He then became head of staff at Honig in Koog aan de Zaan. In 1963 he returned to Amsterdam. Until the end of the seventies he worked as a teacher of philosophy and social policy at the Central Institute for Christian Social Labour. There he enjoyed the great openness of spirit and the fierce, intellectual discussions with the students. This was also the period in which Mr Boetes became politically active. He was a convinced pacifist, partly motivated by his beliefs. One of the issues he was very concerned about was the military intervention of the United States in Vietnam. From 1966 he played a leading role in the Dutch Vietnam movement. With his wife, Lia Boetes-Ridder, he worked in the 1960s for the Centre for Violenceless Weaver. In 1966, Mr. Boetes became a member of the Provincial States of North Holland. A year later, he was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber. With his tall figure, bearded and quiet manner of talking he was a striking appearance in the First Chamber. He also noticed because of his clothes. Before his swearing, he appeared in beatnik suit. Later he appeared in monks' dresses. In this house, too, he showed his pacifist beliefs. In his maiden speech, he acted against national sovereignty. This would only lead to blocs of power that would be opposed to each other. He called for more unity in the world and more attention to development cooperation. In this way, he found the root causes of poverty and violence to be dealt with earlier. In an interview when he took office, Mr Boetes indicated that he saw his membership as an extension of his ability to demonstrate. It would soon appear that this remark had to be taken literally. During an education debate Otto Boetes argued that American President Lyndon B. Johnson was a war criminal according to the standards of Nuremberg and Tokyo. During the debate he even deposited a pamphlet with the slogan "Johnson war criminal" on the ministerial table. This incident was so shocking that the then President of the Chamber had the relevant passage deleted from the Acts. We're talking about the sixties, aren't we? I can't do this anymore. As far as we know, this has only happened four times before in the history of the Upper House. Mr Boetes' objection to this decision was not allowed to benefit. In a special, closed meeting, the Chamber finally decided that these words would not be recorded for posterity. What he said, exactly, is no longer traceable. Because of this in memoriam you know something about it. What is clear is that shortly after, a search was carried out at his home. He had also spread the pamphlet he had handed over to the Chamber elsewhere in the country. The Public Prosecutor prosecuted for insulting a friendly head of state. The case became somewhat ironic when the district attorney in court argued that Mr. Boetes had done better to express his criticism of the American president in the Upper Chamber. Another striking protest by Mr Boetes took place during a debate on defence on Christmas Eve in 1968. At the end of his plenary contribution, he handed over a Christmas model complete with tank and stole, while a choir of "peace on earth" sang from the public gallery. It must have been a wonderful spectacle. At the end of the Parliamentary term in 1969, Mr Boetes decided not to re-enlist as a Member of Parliament. He wanted to be able to devote himself entirely to extra-parliamentary actions. In 1969 he was co-founder of the Palestine Committee. He was also involved in the so-called Gnome Movement, a protest against consumerism and the degradation of nature and the environment. Also outside the pacifist circle the criticism of the American part of the war in Vietnam grew. Until old age, Mr. Boetes remained active in the Baptist Church. He gave lectures and courses in philosophy and Jewish philosophy. He has always worked to provide the established order with arguments. He did this with the conviction that it is good to wake up public opinion from time to time and break the old politics. In an interview he later said that he was pleased to be able to do so, knowing that he lived in a rule of law, in which he could be assured of an adequate legal order. In an interview in 2008, he looked back on a rich life. He indicated that the way he showed himself does not go through politics, but takes shape through personal human commitment, respect and care for each other. Colorful, unconventional, authentic and involved as he was, Otto Boetes has left his mark on a phase of cultural and social change in the post-war history of the Netherlands, and beyond. Impetuous but patient, he's been able to mean a lot to people. May our respect for his person and his merits for parliamentary democracy and society be to support his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
