ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	Gentlemen in box-K, I don't like to use the hammer, but in this case... Did you guys watch a nice movie? Yeah? Okay, we'll check it out later. We will continue with the budget of Health, Welfare and Sport. We had arrived at the answers of the Secretary of State. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Madam President. It is a special privilege to stand here and talk to your Chamber about the budget of VWS for 2018. I'll start with a brief introduction and then I'll get to a few blocks. First, "spiritual health care," then "prevention and prevention agreement," then "prevention of unintended pregnancies," then "prevention of depression and suicide," then "social service." I would also like to say a few words about the Caribbean Netherlands. The questions of your Chamber have all been answered in writing; they have already been mentioned. In my speech, I will briefly address a number of questions that have been raised. Mr. Chairman. I grew up in a presbytery. My father was a reverend, a cheerful reverend. This may be a contradiction in terms for some people in this Chamber, but they exist. I lived in a family like that. My mother and my father have poured me and my brothers and sisters with the spoon that it is good to be ready for other people. In the more than twelve years that we have lived in Schiedam, it was natural that Aad, a mentally handicapped man who sat in the church with us, went home with our family after the morning church service, had coffee, had soup and went home. Week in, week out, year in, year out. Also for others the door was always open, early in the morning and late in the evening. We learned that people are equal to each other. Being ready for others, my dad might have gone a little too far. It happened that in the prayer for the meal he once sighed that you have in a presbytery: Father, do you want to be with us tonight if we get another visit? That's what we used to listen to when we were teenagers, and then you're gonna laugh real hard. But later you realize that you grow up in a family where it truly stood ready for others to make an important mark on life. The story also tells that it's really not always easy to have the door open spontaneously. Being ready for others is the basis for an inclusive society, a society in which everyone can and can participate. In 2017, the pursuit of an inclusive society is high on the political agenda. As alderman of the municipality of Apeldoorn, I have worked for years to be there for all people: male and female, white and black, straight and gay, Christian and Muslim, people with disabilities and people who think they have no limitation. I have become increasingly aware of the fact that we can and even have to appeal to people for their talents, not their limitations. I think it's a privilege that I'm allowed to do that now as Secretary of State. When I started doing this in October, I thought: the distance from the people who it is about is getting very large. Luckily, that's not so bad. That's how I met Martijn in Utrecht in October. Martijn has schizophrenia. He spoke to a room full of people uninhibited. He then told me that more than ten years ago it was completely inconceivable that someone with a mental illness would take the stage in such a way. But it happens, and he himself is the talking example. Over the next few years, I'm going to be fully committed to people like Martijn, to anyone with mental illness. That's quite an ambition. That's easier said than done, because it's a lot of people. According to RIVM, 1.9 million people in the Netherlands have a mental disorder. There are also people who initially had only psychological complaints, such as depression after losing a loved one or a burn-out. That could happen to all of us. You get it, you get it, or you get to deal with it in your neighborhood. Often you get through it with help from family and friends, but it doesn't always work. Then the complaints grow and then it becomes an overwhelming problem. Then it is nice that we have good professional help in the Netherlands: as light as possible, as intensive as necessary and as much at home as possible in our own familiar environment. But whether you have structural mental complaints or temporary complaints, you often do not feel involved or understood by society, your friends, your family or your colleagues. In this fast time, Facebook and Instagram reflect a world in which they no longer recognize themselves. Everything around you goes on, but you feel like an outsider. The aim of helping people with a psychological problem must therefore be to enable them to participate or continue to participate as soon as possible and to feel part of society and have a feeling of being involved. This requires an integrated and coherent approach. Aid should not only focus on treating people with psychological complaints, but also on finding work and living quarters and dealing with debt, in short, on putting your whole life in order. That is not limited to the world of VWS. I am talking about this with my colleague from Social Affairs and with my colleague from the Interior, with that from Social Affairs when it comes to debt relief and work and with that from Home Affairs when it comes to living. I say this in response to questions from Mrs Ellemeet, among others. She asked how to involve people with such low incomes in mental health care and how to make thresholds disappear there. We all know that if you're in debt, this could be a huge threshold to start looking for help at all. But joining in also requires some of society, of all of us. We need to look at people with mental illness or mental illness. People with mental problems are still being stigmatized. That makes it hard to talk about problems, let alone seek help. It has to be used to talking about psychological complaints or mental problems without prejudice. At home with friends or at work. Let's do that more often. Let's listen to each other more often. Let's play a little less tough. Let's look at each other a little bit more. In January, the campaign's successor begins to deal with depression. I would also like to launch a broad campaign next year with the aim of removing this stigma from people with mental illness. In fact, it seems as if that stigma is also attached to the aid workers and the caregivers. We are always talking about the clients, but I also think the sector itself is suffering from this. They achieve a great deal and I have a great deal of respect for all the aid workers in that very difficult sector, but if you go to the newspaper: it is full of them but often only with misery, with what goes wrong. Then it is good to realize that these violent stories are often about a small group of people and that there is also a lot going well. If I am not mistaken, therefore, not only clients in the ggz have to do with the stigma but also increasingly helpers. We need to tilt that image, because we really need the professionals in the ggz. They deserve a positive image. It is very important that these people continue to be able to do their job with pleasure in the future, also in order to keep that sector, that market in which these people work, attractive. It must be nice if you have the ambition to work there. Of course there's a lot to do in the ggz. Everyone's convinced of that. I therefore have a number of specific objectives for the coming year. In the general consultation on 29 November, we have already discussed this quite extensively. In this debate, I would like to highlight five more. First of all, the waiting times. In order to give people with mental illness the best treatment as soon as possible, it is necessary to address these waiting times. Waiting times must fall back into the threshold. I say as a relative outsider, those standards are quite broad. It must be possible, within these standards, to provide people with the assistance they are entitled to. On 13 June, our predecessor, the Minister, agreed to deal with these waiting times. I am going to monitor progress closely and I will inform the Chamber accordingly. Point two of the ggz: next year there must be a well-functioning approach for people with confused behavior everywhere in the Netherlands. As Mrs Van den Berg pointed out, cooperation in the chain is very important here. That's easier said than done. That is why this is also on the agenda of the discussions we are having with municipalities on this issue. By the way, the approach of people with confused behavior is broader than the ggz, as we all know, but I mention it under the heading ggz. Thirdly, I too would like to conclude a broad agreement next year and then on the domain of ggz. The purpose of the agreement is not only to limit expenditure growth. It is also a question of improving quality. I want to conclude a good agreement in terms of content, together with patient organisations, health insurance companies, municipalities and professional associations. I am already talking about this in order to find out what parties need. For example, I am thinking of how patients can get the right care at the right time. That's gotta get a place in that chord. Make sure it matches what people need. As light as can be, as intense as necessary. This includes the art of phasing out. I have said this a number of times in the past week to the sector: you must also learn to cut back. So stop if something doesn't work and then look for a good alternative. As far as I am concerned, the approach to waiting times is also part of the agreement. We need to do this structuralally. It shouldn't be a trick that will take place before the summer of next year to make it blow again, no, it has to be structural. As well as the progress of the 18-min-18-plus problem. It's a good transition. We know a lot about each other. Let's do it sometime, please. The ambition is high. Before the summer of next year, we hope to have reached a broad agreement. The fourth point on the ggz: I also want to work on making the Law accessible to long-term care for people with mental illness. I can also see from the contributions made by Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Slootweg that they want to speed up. That creates a bond, because so do I. That's what I'm saying from my previous role as alderman. Municipalities need it, just like healthcare providers. And for the clients, the clients, it can also be very important. I will inform the Chamber of the steps we are going to take in this context. I sent a letter to the Chamber last week or the week before that. I also indicated that I would like to present that bill to the Chamber in autumn 2018, because we need to take a few steps before then. I think Mrs Bergkamp wants to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	That's right, about that access to the Wlz of ggz clients. I am pleased that this is part of one of the five objectives of this Secretary of State. I think that's really very positive. But I would also like to hear the ambition, because when I look at the planning, it seems very exciting whether 2019 will succeed in making the Wlz accessible to people with a ggz background. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yes, because if I submit that bill to the Chamber by the end of 2018, then the Wlz will not be accessible to people with a psychological basis in 2019. I believe that this is in a hurry, and that this has actually remained too long. But let's do it carefully, please. As far as I am concerned, I am sure that this complex dossier is also subject to speed. So we have an ally in each other that we want to make pace. So I am also counting on the constructive cooperation of the D66 Group on this dossier. But 2019 sounds very ambitious. Maybe it's even halfway through 2019. I don't know how complicated that gets. I'm gonna take a look at the main contractor Wlz. But I really don't know when it could be exactly. Take it from me that I'll do my best to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Then I must believe the Secretary of State on his blue or brown eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	They're a little brown and a little green.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Okay, a little brown-green eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	Then we'll remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	That's right, then we'll remember. The previous Secretary of State also often talked about care, but he left it at that time, quite frankly. So I'm a little on my guard. Of course care is important, especially with these clients. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber at the beginning of next year if it is feasible by mid-2019? Can he therefore give us a clear picture of what investigations are involved? The Secretary of State is talking about necessary tests. What needs to be done to eventually achieve that ambition by mid-2019, hopefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	I would like to say to Mrs Bergkamp that this information will be sent to the Chamber at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	The fifth point is that I want to encourage municipalities to implement the recommendations of the report of the Dannenberg Commission. It is important that people who use protected housing and social care can participate in our society. In my opinion, Mr De Jonge has already addressed Mrs Bergkamp's question about independent customer support, but especially for the young people in social care, we are taking it very seriously. It is also my intention to talk to municipalities at the beginning of next year, and I am going to go round the country about how they intend to implement the recommendations of the Dannenberg Committee in practice. Mr. Chairman. The feeling of not being part of it anymore and not being part of it does not only occur in people who have psychological problems. This applies equally to people with somatic physical disabilities. I'm talking about people who just don't have good health; let's not make it any heavier than I mean. Both VWS ministers deal with the care and the cure. Together we work to support people with health problems, to improve care and to reduce the growth of healthcare costs. Perhaps that brings me to the biggest challenge we have: prevention. It is about promoting health and preventing us from getting sick. And when we're sick, we need to deal with it as best we can. In certain situations, for example with type 2 diabetes, you can greatly reduce such a disease yourself. All this to remove the obstacles to join. Here too, participation is the adageum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	We were talking about prevention, and I'm just gonna take a walk. I have another question about the previous point, about the ggz. The Secretary of State also knows that, unfortunately, money remains on the shelf of the health insurance companies every year, while in the ggz we are dealing with treatment stops, waiting lists and patients who do not receive help. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the money is not left on the shelf but spent on patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	That is a very difficult matter; I think Mrs Kooiman knows it too. It is my ambition to get the finger out of what exactly is lacking. If we ask the health insurance companies and the healthcare providers where they are now and why they can't agree on the responsible spending of money to adequately help that vulnerable target group, then we get a diffuse picture. I'd like to know exactly where it is. What also stops, for example, is buying secure beds for people with very heavy complaints and dispersal. In fact, care providers also need to purchase outpatient care. Because care is not adequately regulated, the flow from the institutions does not go at the rate we would like. I'd like to know exactly where that is. I hope that it will be a comfort to Mrs Kooiman to know that the 280 million that has not been spent will and will continue to be available next year to spend on dealing with these problems. I promise you that I will discuss this intensively with both health insurers and healthcare providers. I want to know the seam of the stocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	That's very good news. Yeah, I'm relieved about that. However, I am concerned that the Secretary of State cannot say that the 280 million must be spent on this aid by you, health insurers. Does the Secretary of State therefore intend to look at an instrument that will make this possible, so that we do not have waiting lists and treatment stops?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	Two things. In my view, it is not an end in itself to raise this money, but we both believe that people should receive adequate help and that there should be no waiting times, at least those waiting times should not exceed the standards we have agreed. That, I think, is the most important thing. In the general consultation that we had at the end of November, I promised to identify the instruments that the Dutch Healthcare Authority has to intervene, if necessary, to help health insurers through a harder hand to provide adequate assistance and to make funds available if they are needed. I'll inform the Chamber about that. I have already said this in general consultation, and I repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I have already said that prevention and health promotion are the biggest challenges. We want to enable people who are sick to participate. If they are brought to an acceptable level, they are able to participate. I am, of course, talking about people who really have something to do with that health. We know more and more about the impact of healthy life on our health and on our quality of life, not only when you're young and you're okay, but also in the other stages of your life. Even when you get older or have a condition, the quality of life is important. Mrs Arissen and Mrs Sazias, among others, pointed this out. Of course, there are already many fine initiatives in this area; we do not start with the era. I refer to the programme Healthy in the city, at Healthy School, at Young People On Healthy Weight and of course on the broad National Programme Prevention. At the same time, there is still much to gain. A quarter of our disease burden is caused by the way we live. Smoking, overweight and drinking are evidently the greatest culprits, as Mr Van der Staaij also pointed out. Fortunately we see a movement in the right direction in smoking, but we are still far from there. One in four adults smokes and one in ten youngsters between the ages of 12 and 16 smoke. That is still quite a lot, while we want to move towards a smoke-free generation. That's a priority of this cabinet. If we look at overweight, we see that 43% of the Dutch are too heavy. In 1990 that was still 30%. We'll have to work with each other on that. The health differences between people from different population groups are also enormous. In short, it is well known that factors such as low education, low income and no employment: a low socio-economic status may have a major impact on health. The figures presented by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in the report De sociale staat van Nederland 2017 are not positive in this respect. The life expectancy of highly educated people at birth is still almost seven years higher than for low-skilled people. The difference in life expectancy between those groups in good health is almost twenty years. Those are confrontational facts, especially since they allow the people involved to stand aside and feel they do not matter. That is why, out of conviction, this cabinet is committed to prevention, to preventing people from getting sick and living on a healthy footing. As you all probably know, we are allocating EUR 170 million for prevention tasks in this cabinet period. An important action point in this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	...is the National Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	I would like to come back to that point of a smoke-free generation. That is also what the Christian Union very much wants. We've had a lot of debates about it. The written answer states that we are going to do a few things. Of course I am very happy with the non-smoking schools; it was my own amendment. I also mention the ban on display and the frightening pictures. Are we going to save that smoke-free generation with this set of measures? Or do you need another tooth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is clear from the fact that we want to conclude a National Prevention Agreement, in which smoking is one of the key points. That also means that ambition can be raised. I am going to say that we are talking about this with social partners and that our ambitions are high. That varies according to who you talk about it, but everyone is fully convinced that we need to put a lot of effort into bringing that smoke-free generation at your fingertips.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	This answer reassures me, because it means that we are going to implement the measures listed in the written reply. But there will also be measures to ensure that the smoke-free generation is really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	If Mrs Dik means that there will be legal measures, then I must tell her that I cannot say that at this stage. This is partly due to the input from civil society organisations to conclude such a nice prevention agreement. It may well be that this will be a very nice set of measures, which is also very much in the sphere of seduction and achieve things from the bottom up. Nor do I rule out the possibility of additional measures from the government. Some of them are already in the pipeline. Mrs Dik refers to that herself. But maybe we should talk to each other, or maybe the government should add a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	I hear the Secretary of State say that we are going to spend 170 million on prevention and health promotion. But is it not true that all the prevention policies of recent years have led to nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	In the written reply we have tried to identify on which fronts profits have been made. There are a number of concrete situations in which this is true. It is, by the way, a justified point, because it must lead to something. The cabinet therefore says: if you are taking measures to push prevention, then it must have demonstrable results. That's what the coalition agreement says. It must be proven to be effective and the group of the Party for Animals can hold us to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	That is the point, because these initiatives are not proven to be effective. That's also in an extensive article by Follow the Money. It has not been proven and we, the Party for Animals, are afraid that it only gives large companies a stage to make good decoration. My question to the Secretary of State is: are we going to use the 170 million to support the marketing of the Coca-Colas of this world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	No, it's my very last ambition to give big companies a nice stage and then do nothing. We're talking to them. They are at our table, but they are next to many others, to see what steps we can take. I would like to ask the Group of the Party of Animals: please judge us by our actions. I will come forward with a number of proposals in the next spring and you can have a very fanatical debate on this with me, but please give us the opportunity to come up with a whole set of arrangements. Along with partners from society, there are companies at the table, but also a lot of other people.We want to present that beautiful package to you. That is what we are going to have a nice debate on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	Please continue. Mrs. Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Those are really going to be sectoral agreements, because the industry and the companies are also joining in on this. It will be a prevention agreement and not legislation. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that on 30 May 2013 the then State Secretary made the following commitment, if I may, to Chairman.......................................................................................................................................................................................... On this point, I made a commitment that consultation with the industry should lead to the desired result and that we would otherwise proceed to legislation." We note that agreements were made with the industry last year, but the supermarkets are still full. They're popping out with Minions and K3 candy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. It is precisely my ambition to make less non-binding agreements in a prevention agreement than we have done so far. I really want to commit to each other and appeal to each other for goals to be achieved. If we present that in the Chamber, let's have that conversation. Moreover, several interventions have been proven to be effective, including in the context of smoking. Of course, nothing happened either. The previous cabinet has also taken important steps in the legislation and regulations to effectively reduce smoking. It is not for nothing that we see in the reports that smoking is becoming less and less common. It's just that legal measures have been taken to bring it down. This cabinet, for example, does not hesitate to increase excise duties on tobacco by 200 million. And that's task-setting, isn't it? That means no matter what happens, that 200 million has to come in. The fewer people who smoke cigarettes, the more expensive cigarettes are going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	You may interrupt again, Mrs Arissen, but the Secretary of State has said three times: give me a little time, then I will come back with an agreement, a plan. If you ask the same question again, that is a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State is keen to make less non-binding agreements. We would like this to be regulated, because this is taking too long. As far as smoking is concerned, for the first time in years young people have started smoking again. 36% of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 get a cigarette every day. I'd like to give that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, continue, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr President, I would have liked to say that we are in the process of preparing for a national prevention agreement. I would like to conclude this agreement with important social partners such as patient organisations, healthcare providers, health insurance companies, municipalities, sports associations, sports clubs, sports associations, civil society organisations and indeed business. I am very much in conversation with these organisations and I am pleasantly surprised by the enthusiasm with those interlocutors. People are very eager and really want to make pace and meters. These discussions also involve health insurers, I would like to say in the direction of Mrs Dijkstra. She asked what I am doing with De Nederlandsche Bank's recommendations on preventive measures that health insurers can put into practice. I would like to report to the Chamber on this at the beginning of next year, when we have studied DNB's opinion. Then there comes a reaction from the cabinet. I would like to hear concrete ideas on prevention in the debate on this budget of political groups. For example, I have heard Mrs Arissen talk about sustainable nutrition. I've heard Mrs. Dik talk about malnutrition. Mrs Sazias has joined us. I take all that to heart. We are going to involve this in the drafting of a very nice agreement. I aim to conclude that agreement by summer 2018 and to discuss it with your Chamber. The agreement states that the focus should be on smoking and overweight. I have round tables with a lot of civil society organisations and I can already say that from the first two of those talks it becomes clear that we need to broaden the scope, for example with a topic such as alcohol. Mr Van der Staaij also asked questions about this: "Aren't we going to have to go a little harder?', "Take an example to Scotland" et cetera. The desire to extend the agreement also belongs to Mrs Dijkstra. We want to start from a healthy life and focus not only on children and young people, but also on the elderly, I say to Mrs Sazias. That's not personal, but it might say something about your party. There is also a need for attention to be paid to achieving people with different cultural backgrounds, as well as those with lower education and low income, a group that we have so far achieved little. That it is possible, shows Bas van de Goor, for example, who walks with his foundation with people who are also low-educated and low-income people with an average BMI of 31,2. For those who don't say that: that's pretty heavy; a healthy BMI is between 18 and 25. The people who walk with Bas van de Goor therefore have a BMI of 31.2 on average. That walking moves those people, and that way they can better deal with their diabetes. The great thing is that doctors and physiotherapists also come along. That's how they run into their patients when they're okay. They'll have very different conversations with them. The agreement that we want to conclude is, in any case, the more concrete, the better. We need to be able to work on it right away and we still have three round tables to do until January. I look forward to that. Of course, I'll inform the Chamber about the progress. That's what happens in early 2018. In reply to Mrs Ellemeet's question, I would also like to involve the care companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	I hear the Secretary of State say he's going to involve malnutrition in the main agreement. But in the written answer, I read that the problem of malnutrition is in any case being moved back to the home front, where the carers have to pay attention, while I have also clearly asked about the director of that problem. The fact that you take this into account in the main agreement is, in principle, a step further, but I would like to hear more specifically that you really want to do something about it and also appoint a director.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	We are still at the stage where we are talking to social partners about what issues we are involved in the prevention agreement and how we are going to shape things. I am not going to fill it in very specific detail, but I understand Mrs Sazias' point very well. If you leave it to the carers who are often not there either if, for example, their father or mother gets too little food, there should also be a different way of paying attention to it. That is a good thing for me, and I would like to discuss with social partners how we can shape that. It applies not only to older people but also to children. Children with malnutrition is also an underestimated problem. Young people On Healthy Weight not only affects young people with too much weight but also young people with too little weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you very much for that answer. Don't forget that it's not just about people who get or don't get too little food, but that older people also very often forget to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, thank you. Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Apart from the National Prevention Agreement, there are a number of issues in the area of prevention that need to be addressed, always from the point of view of participation. In this context, Mrs Ellemeet rightly calls for attention to be paid to the prevention of postnatal depression. I find it sad with her that more than 23,000 women don't feel happiness every year when they have given birth to new life, when everyone expects it from them. Yeah, explain that: you're supposed to be happy, and you're not. Find the right help. That is why, I say to the Chamber and in particular to Mrs Ellemeet, postnatal depression is receiving special attention in the Multi-annual Programme of Depression Prevention. That programme was launched in 2017. Work is currently under way on a plan for a chain approach for pregnant and newly-born mothers. Important attention is paid to early signs of depression and attention in the training of obstetricians and youth doctors. Mrs Kooiman was right to add this in an interruption on Tuesday: don't forget the caregivers. In this context, I would like to devote €300,000 from the budget for the Multi-annual Programme of Depression Prevention to the development and implementation of this plan. That's for the implementation of the plan, but I'm adding something to it. The follow-up to the public campaign, for which EUR 1 million is available annually, is intended to be completed in such a way that this target group is also specifically addressed. I say this as an addition: especially once, in 2018, a public campaign, specifically aimed at this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	I'm very happy about this. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is taking this as seriously as I am. I think that this amount is a very good start, also to start screening. We can make a difference with that. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he also wants to take the good example from the Achterhoek. This screening has already been carried out on the basis of an internationally recognised methodology. This has proved effective in the Netherlands and could serve as a very good example. My second question to the Secretary of State is the following. It's a very nice first amount, but it won't be enough for all women. You're gonna need six tons for that. Could the Secretary of State ask to focus specifically on the risk group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	The latter seems to me to be a fair question. So that's what we're gonna give priority to, yeah. I would like to look at the example from the Achterhoek. Once I'm on my way home from The Hague, I'll drive through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. Speaking of depression, I'd like to say something about depression and suicide and preventing it. During this cabinet period, I would like to make a commitment to reducing the number of suicides. You all know that, unfortunately, that is increasing. I would like to focus specifically on the target group of Ihbti young people. These young people often have to deal with negative reactions in their environment. That makes them very vulnerable. I've spoken to these kids, too. They experience a lot of stress and they consider suicide more often. The number of suicide attempts among these young people is even more than four times higher than among peers. For transgender young people, that number is even five to ten times higher. I am very shocked by that and it is very sad that this is happening, for the young people themselves, their parents and their surroundings. I would like to pay particular attention to countering suicide among this group. In January, I will discuss this with representatives of that group and with young people themselves. VWS also talks about this subject together with the Ministry of Education with Movisie, the COC and 113 Suicide Prevention. Recognizing the signs of suicide plans is incredibly important. Organisations such as 113 Suicide Prevention Ms Dik-Faber also mentioned them as helping parents to engage in the conversation with their child. Mr President, I would also like to make a few comments on the prevention of accidental pregnancy. With a broad coalition of field parties, like Fiom, Siriz and Rutgers, I want to create a multi-annual agenda to counter unintended pregnancies. Fortunately, this is not a bad area in the Netherlands. For example, we are in the top three global countries with the lowest number of teenage pregnancies. But there's a whole story behind every teenage pregnancy. That is why we are continuing with initiatives that are already there. Think, for example, of Nu Niet Zwanger, a programme that the Minister for Youth Policy and Youth Care is working on. Of great importance is that we have programmes in which women do not feel compelled to choose but offer support in making a choice. We would also like to see additional support for very vulnerable groups, such as women who have intellectual disabilities or those suffering from ggz. I'll talk to field parties about this after the turn of the year. In these discussions, I would like to discuss, among other things, the provision of teaching materials, online and telephone helplines and selection help calls. I certainly have the intention of including Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dijkstra's intrusive questions concerning the discussion with women after abortion. We have now gone into all three of them on this subject; you can see how much this weighs for us. Mr President, I would also like to say something about social service. In completing that social service, the exclusive society is one of my main motivations. Social service is a whole new way of participating and connecting people, people who otherwise might never meet because they have a completely different world of life, a different faith or a different background. We want to challenge young people to get out of their own familiar environment and their comfort zone, and to do something interesting where they can develop or discover a talent and gain experience that they can proudly put on their CV. That's what we want to do with social service. This is something where young people can really mean something to others or make our environment a bit more pleasant, for example in a nursing home, in a primary school, in a community center, in a rescue brigade or at a sports club. Mr Slootweg and Mrs Dik-Faber asked how we would do that. In February, I'm going to have conversations about that. Of course, there are already preparations. I will have these talks with young people who are involved, with municipalities, with civil society organisations and, of course, with education. That is why the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs also join. We'd like to hear from these people, especially from young people, what they think is important. In the summer, we'd like to take a test run. And if things go well, the first youngsters will start their social service next fall. We also need to speed up a bit, because there will be substantial resources waiting for us next year to implement this. Mr President, I have a few points to make on the Caribbean. No questions were asked about that. It's part of the Netherlands. There too, of course, we have important care responsibilities. When we talk about participation, of course, so does the Caribbean. On 6 September, Hurricane Irma hit Sint-Maarten hard. Saba and Saint Eustatius have also suffered damage. That has personally hit the people there very hard, just like their relatives here. We are, of course, still involved in the reconstruction process. Since 10 October 2010, there has been considerable investment in the healthcare infrastructure, such as hospitals, general practitioners, medical broadcasts and emergency care. Now we are going to do a lot of work on prevention. Connections between care and support are very important. A good example of this are the life coaches on Sint-Eustatius. It's called "life coaches" there; we would call that "social workers." It's about gaining confidence, so that very sensitive issues such as domestic violence and child abuse become negotiable, as well as overweight. We support local initiatives in the area of social support in the coming years. Mr President, I will conclude. Joining us gives you confidence. We'll build a life on it. It gives meaning to our existence. The great importance of seeing and feeling it is only when we don't get that chance, when we fall out of the boat, when we don't feel at home in society, when we lose contact with family, friends and neighbours, when we don't feel healthy anymore, or when we feel we don't matter anymore. Everyone has to be able to participate. That is the basis for an inclusive society. I want to do this with my heart and soul in the years to come, and I hope with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you. Then we're going to... Oh, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yeah, I was just looking for a moment to interrupt. It's about a question we had asked together with D66 about decentralisation of protected housing. The commitment was that this would be the subject of a progress report before Christmas, but we do not have that much time to do so. So that's still going to work, is our specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'd like to go into a few things about that. It also looks good on my retina that this is very important. Nor is that surprising, given the backgrounds of the rulers here, who know the local world well. The task of social care and shelter, which lies with the municipalities, deserves a great deal of attention, also in relation to the outpatientisation of mental health care and the whole of mental health care. I know that municipalities are working very hard on that. An overview was also made; I thought by Movisie or Trimbos. That report, that overview, is going to be given to the Chamber, with an explanation of how we look at it. In my contribution, twenty or ten minutes ago, I also said that I would like to talk to the regions about how they want to shape protected living and how they want to arrange it with the regions you are talking about. In fact, I think the greatest time pressure is to properly implement the fine recommendations contained in the report by the Dannenberg Committee. That's the pressure we're feeling. That's what I call congregations. I had an administrative meeting with municipalities on December 6th. I appeal to them and there is also a strong support from the congregations that we are all going to do so. Decentralising and starting a new financial model is still a bit more complicated, because municipalities have asked: can you stop until it is clear how many people from living protected go to the Long-Term Care Act? We just talked about the outflow from the Long-Term Care Act. Moreover, this is expected to vary quite a bit from one region to another. In one region more people from protected living will go to the Wlz than in other places. It's not my ambition to get as many people into the Wlz as possible. That seems to me to be a wrong move, because we want to help as many people as possible in the municipal domain. Municipalities have asked me: will you please make sure that the Wlz is properly arranged first, so that we can see at once how many people are still under our responsibility for sheltered living or social care, and then make the move towards a new distribution model? Municipalities can therefore make agreements with regional municipalities about who does what. It would be a good thing for me if municipalities simply said: will we have a single budget in our region and take care of that vulnerable target group together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	When it comes to distribution models, I know from a previous expertise that this can take a very long time. So I would like to ask whether it is possible to come up with a specific schedule before Christmas. I understand you won't be able to fill everything out by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	For Christmas this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	But you can already get a bit of an overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	I do not know how concrete I can be, because I have no agenda at all to postpone the introduction of this new distribution model as far as I can. In fact, I want to make that movement fast after 2020. Municipalities have asked: "Please don't allow that to happen in 2020, but a little later, so that the target group that we have in mind can partly flow to the Wlz? And then we can make that move in one go." Municipalities have also said to me in the consultation on 6 December, which I was just talking about, that the historical distribution on the basis of which they are now given the resources might shed in some places but that they want to solve that themselves, as a collective. So if there are obvious gaps, municipalities want to see for themselves how they can achieve a good distribution of the 1.4 billion budget available for that purpose. I think I'm going to lift myself up and raise expectations that I can't live up to if I give a schedule for Christmas, and the municipalities also say: now you're going a little faster than we agreed on 6 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs. Sazias. Oh, isn't that right, Mr. Slootweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	In any case, I am glad that it is stated here: I do not want to lift myself or make a commitment that I cannot deliver. But I'd still like to get some sort of direction of when.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	I have just promised in the debate to the D66 Group, to Mrs ehm...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mountain camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mountain camp! Yeah, nice soccer player. Sorry. I have just promised Mrs Bergkamp that I will provide information on the planning of the Wlz. I think it could be in the same letter that I'm sending at the beginning of next year, because that has everything to do with each other. So in the same letter about the planning and the steps to be taken to change the Wlz, this information could be included. That's a little later than Christmas holidays, but you'll get more adequate information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	That's before the summer recess, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, Mr Van der Staaij also wanted to get information in the second quarter next year, because otherwise everything will be in the first quarter. But I don't think it's too much to be promised when I say it should be possible in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	We welcome the prevention agreements and I may have missed them, but I had hoped that you would come back to the prevention of falls. More people die every year from a fall than in traffic, so that seems to me to be a real acute problem. I have also mentioned two causes. One is malnutrition and that is what we have just talked about, and the other is medication assessment. I do not believe that I have heard your colleague say anything about this. This is particularly important for the elderly. They have sometimes been taking medicines for years, which can now work against each other or are unnecessary. So that's part of fall prevention. So many people die every year. Would you like to make that a key point in that prevention agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	To say this so explicitly, I find it a bit exciting, because I want to get what they want from organisations in society. The subject of "moving" is very much on the agenda and also the theme of "overweight in relation to underweight," i.e. simply "healthy nutrition." Those two things touch very much what Mrs Sazias is talking about. I do not know whether that leads to a spearhead "fall prevention" or whether we mean positive "healthy movement" which, for example, allows you to overcome an important part of that problem. I do not know whether there will be a separate chapter or block of 'fall prevention' under the prevention agreement. I've clearly heard you make this plea. I would also like to include this in my discussions with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	Finally, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	I don't think the Secretary of State should see that as a separate chapter either. It's definitely related to the things you just mentioned. I hope you really want to take it, even under the heading of movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes. I heard you very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you for your answer. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV. Oh, yeah, I forgot to ask the Secretary of State. Two amendments have been tabled. Perhaps you could come back to that in the second term. Fine. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. I thought Mrs. Gerbrands and I had eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	That's right. Nine, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	There's six here. Hence my comment, Mr President. I'd like to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	We're just gonna add up the remaining minutes. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	Then that's what we'll do. Then you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	Then I think there's eight of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	I think you have 11, no, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	Are those left over from Mrs. Gerbrands and me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yes, you had six minutes left and Mrs. Gerbrands nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	Well, then there's no need to panic at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Look! Yeah, second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	I thought I was gonna get our spokesperson in trouble next week. Of course, I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	No. That's good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. I will submit our motions before I commit myself to a final word. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the care sector benefits from a mandatory driver test for all directors and not just those who are members of the NVZD;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a mandatory driver test for all administrative positions in the care and to place them with the NZa,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that a carrier test can contribute significantly to the detection of hereditary diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the carrier test becomes more well-known and to offer this standard for IVF treatments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the conditional admission pathway (VT pathway) for medically indicated physiotherapy in approximately 100 rheumatic diseases is unfeasible;]] [[calls on the government, together with the rheumatism field and the Health Institute, to develop a way of working which is feasible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 10% of patients refrain from caring because of the cost;]] [[Considering that its own risk exceeds its objective and that we have started this care system without any risk;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to eliminate its own risk, starting with primary care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reach an overhead standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities with residents aged 80 or over to have a contact moment each year to ask how they are doing in order to combat loneliness and deploy a WMO facility where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that insurers still require five-minute registrations in community care and community care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that five-minute registrations are definitely a thing of the past,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-56]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-57]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-58]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-59]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-60]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-61]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	Well, a lot more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to step up the investigation of fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to lose sight of night care and, in addition to the occupation standard of 2 to 8 during peak hours, also to achieve 0.5 to 8 in the night,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nursing home residents live in the nursing home for ever shorter periods and are very heavy patients from the outset, which makes the application of a higherzzp an administrative idiocy of awesome;]] [[calls on the Government to combine the 4 to 9 care packages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-65]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-66]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to leave the indication to the field and have the CIZ checked through the principle of high trust high penalty, meaning those who are not doing well, goes back to the old administrative regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[In accordance with the Acema motion adopted (31765, No. 175) to roll out the already functioning best practices nationwide and to make the savings that this brings flow back to the nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-63]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to extend the registration procedure for the backpay until after the review of the backpay scheme by the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three directors for their first-term response. Not just us, but more Members of Parliament were disappointed with the written reply. I hope that will change in the future. What I would like to talk about is the estimates and the hysterical overruns. Until 2010, the House of Representatives had to deal with exceedances, every year. There is a very crazy trend break between the period up to 2010, with 25 years of overruns, and the last period, with major windfalls. So we can see that the estimates are still far too high. The Minister replied that this was not decisive, because an estimate is only an estimate. But it is decisive; I can already see Mrs Aukje de Vries with her arms in the air. An estimate determines the calculation premium, determines the care premium, determines the own contribution, determines the risk. So those estimates are very decisive. And if you are four times too high with your estimate of your realization, that means that the citizen actually pays too much. And pays way too much. At the moment, the system is so structured that a windfall flows into the treasury. A windfall thus does not lead to a lower care premium, but goes to budgets elsewhere. So, in fact, we pay too much for care. In addition to the fact that I do not like the constant creation of doom scenarios, because citizens are afraid that they will no longer have the necessary care in the future, fear that their care will be suppressed, fear that they will have to pay too much for it, it seems that it will not come out. I have now shared this concern with the ministers in detail and I hope to be able to continue to do so in future in other debates. What has disturbed me in the written answer is the following. Yesterday, I read out the report of the European Commission, State of Health in the EU. I have not received an answer as to whether this is based on current tables. So that's really not true. I'm holding up page 5 of this report again. This is also very important because it is often dealt with. Figure 5 at the bottom really says that the "data referred to" from 2015 and the OECD. We also know that OECD usually takes one or two years to collect these data. So we're really talking about data from before lifting the AWBZ, so before the big reforms. It's really weird. It's a report from November 2017, so there's anticipating a situation that really doesn't exist in the Netherlands anymore. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the blue booklet of the Ministry of Finance which I am now holding up. On page 57 there are two tables. The first table shows the percentage of GDP growth of the Netherlands between 2000 and 2016. The Netherlands scores very high with an average growth of 3.5%. On page 3 of the Minister's reply we see that between 2012 and 2017, we had an average growth of 0.8% in the Netherlands. So here too, a very strange picture is presented of a growth of about 3.5% a year, by our Ministry of Finance. We see a table below in which care costs are becoming an increasing proportion of our expenditure. It's the famous cuckoo youth story. But we see that healthcare costs have increased by 0.8% per year over the last period, between 2012 and 2017. This is therefore much lower than the increase in GDP by an average of 1.6% per year. If the estimates continue to be so hysterical and we continue to get pictures of this kind, while reality is very different, then I foresee a lot of cuts in care that are not necessary. Are we then for care costs that rise out of the blue? No, we're not. We really see the coming period as a period in which there are many opportunities for us to tackle fraud, waste and rules. That's why I've tabled so many motions. I have a lot of fresh courage to really come to changes in care. I'm not talking about system changes, but I'm talking about optimizing the systems. For it is indeed not the Lower House that says, for example, that those five minutes registrations are necessary. I have here the care agreement of VGZ for the district care in 2018, the coming year. On page 8, it says: "The declaration takes place on the basis of five-minute rates." So we can debate what we want here, but they just keep doing it. That is why I have tabled a motion on this. I really hope that the Chamber is prepared to take that motion so that we can really get rid of it. Because even though the insurer makes that rule, and we do not do it here, we can ensure that that rule is abolished within our system. I told you, care is ours. But loving care, which the Chamber has often spoken out for in recent days, we are not creating here. It's created by caregivers. Caregivers create loving care. By 2023, we're gonna need 190,000 more people. This is the task for VWS in the coming period, and everything needs to be put into action. Because if we want to realize loving care, then we really need care workers who can provide that care. Despite the very disappointing written response, the slightly better oral response and hopefully a lot of 'judge chamber' in the handling of the motions, I still see opportunities and I am still full of good courage to finally tackle as much fraud, waste, overhead and rules as possible in the coming period. Then we can really free the care and use all the money that is decided in care to hire as many extra people as possible who can actually give that loving care. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of points to make in replying to the various heads of government. First of all, thank you for the comprehensive answer and also for the written answers. As Mr van der Staaij said, there are going to be a lot of proposals in the first quarter. So we can be full-bodied as House of Representatives. We very much welcome the commitment that in that first quarter there will be a proposal to reduce the regulatory burden in the care sector, looking at low-hanging fruit, but that clear targets will also be attached to it. I think it should be seen as a challenge to shape that in a good, working way. The Minister for Medical Care has indicated that the shift from second to first-line care is explicitly taken into account in the main agreements and that a separate plan of action is therefore not necessary. We await these basic agreements first. We understand that electronic care and innovation will also be included, but that there will be a separate letter on this. We do think it is important that we do not continue to pioneer with all these proposals, but that, if they just work well, we will implement them widely. We can continue to experiment, but good proposals simply need to be rolled out across the Netherlands. As far as the main agreements are concerned, the Minister for Medical Care has said that he will raise a number of issues in many of these main agreements. That is good for us, but what we think is important is that we should look at it in its entirety and not just look at it in a column of one broad agreement, but should also be able to move between these broad agreements. We would like a response from the Minister to that. The fourth point, after which I come to two issues on which we shall be tabling a motion, concerns the admissions to the health insurance market. I am pleased that the Minister is responding to the ACM's report on the admissions, because I think it is important that we look at how we can ensure that those new entrants are actually going to take that step. I think it is important to look at the licensing process. This is indicated as one of the points in that investigation. I believe that we should also take concrete steps to see what is possible there. This may also be in line with the issues that have already been mentioned, for example on licensing in the financial sector, which includes health insurers as part of the insurance sector. The Minister has indicated that he does not want a further analysis of why the other two parties, Anno2012 and the cooperative have not joined Carefree, because that would already be clear. I wonder what kind of analysis the Minister has then as to why these parties have not joined. Finally, I come to two other points, first of all the tools. The Minister has indicated that an investigation by KPMG is under way, but that this would not entirely suit what we, as a VVD, have indicated that we consider to be important, namely that you also look at what obstacles there are and what solutions you could use for that purpose. That is why we are putting forward a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are signs that the costs of devices in the Netherlands are relatively high, sometimes up to 30% higher than in Germany;]] [[noting that patients, contributors and insured persons ultimately bear the higher costs;]] [[Considering that consideration should be given to how to keep care affordable;]] [[considers that there is a relatively weak purchasing power and strong market power from resource providers;]] [[Asks the government to ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Dutch Consumer and Market Authority to investigate the purchasing and market power of devices, considering the obstacles and solutions and informing the Dutch House of Representatives before 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	Then there is the subject of medicines. Much has already been said about shortening the procedure. We see, however, that in other countries too, there is an active effort to see how to achieve faster access and availability of a medicinal product on the market. We believe that the ambition to reduce these procedures should be accompanied by a little bit more. That is why there is a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many new, promising, sometimes expensive medicines will become available in the coming years;]] [[considers it important for patients to have rapid access to these medicines;]] [[considers that the procedure for the approval, authorisation and reimbursement of these medicinal products may sometimes take a long time;]] [[noting that the US Food and Drug Administration is also looking at accelerated admission;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how these procedures, in consultation with interested parties, whether or not in a European context, can be designed more efficiently and thus shortened and inform the Lower House of the outcome in the second quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	I shall now give the floor to my colleague. But I think the chairman should say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	That's okay. Mrs Hermans has the floor, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers for the comprehensive response and through them also to their officials. I've had a little bit of experience with these days in recent years and I know it's hard and a lot of work, but it's also a nice process. Loving and good care that as much as possible as at home, that is what we stand for, not because that is not the case yet but because we must continue to have ambitions and remain ambitious, because it can always be better, every day a little more like home. This can only be done if we make the quality of care in nursing homes transparent. I am glad that the Minister shares this and that he sees the benchmark as a mirror. Thus we come to an atmosphere of encouragement, of challenge and of learning from each other. I just think that the Minister was still a little cautious and cautious about the role of the health offices in this process. I think that, in the process of buying in care, there are all possibilities to steer the quality tighter. The theme of the subsequent funding has been mentioned in this context. I shall be coming up with a motion on this in a moment, in order to ask for a little more ambition from the Minister. The same applies to the issue of innovation. Of course, I do not want projects and things that are a bit of innovation and that will disappear again tomorrow or lead to a new project. I would like to see a wide-ranging but, above all, sustainable innovation in nursing care and a real quality impact in the sector. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality framework for nursing home care is primarily intended to improve quality in nursing homes;]] [[Considering that for this quality improvement 2.1 billion is structurally available to invest in sufficient, well-educated healthcare professionals;]] [[Whereas the adoption of more care professionals should lead to loving and good care;]] [[believes that the best nursing homes should become the norm;]] [[considers that the improvement of quality in the sector should be transparent to all, with a focus on promoting real improvement;]] [[considers that the administrative burden should not increase further;]] [[In the improvement programme that comes to the House of Representatives in early 2018 and the periodic monitoring thereafter, the government requests that concrete, clear measures be taken to clarify how:]] [[the quality impact of the nursing home sector will be benchmarked and on the basis of which indicators in addition to the customer and employee satisfaction indicators;]] [[the benchmark is included in the existing structure of the annual quality plan and report (including improvement paragraph);]] [[In addition, the quality of well-performing nursing homes is made clear and how the inspection in its supervisory framework takes this into account;]] [[incentives for the procurement of healthcare establishments can be introduced to encourage innovation among healthcare providers;]] [[innovation will be stimulated and rewarded so that innovation can be given a sustainable place in nursing care;]] [[drivers will be judged on the achievement of quality improvement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Slootweg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	You will not be surprised that the SP is not very much in favour of benchmarks and all the other itching words in the motion. What worries me is that this is going to lead to much more bureaucracy in the workplace. Emergency workers are already so busy filling out lists. Isn't this motion for a resolution that emergency workers won't be given any more care in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	On the contrary. Therefore, one of the considerations is also that it should not lead to additional administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think it's very handsome. On the one hand, you say that we want more transparency. What that transparency is and what that benchmark should be is not quite clear to me. The Minister may have an answer to that. But if you want to get that, you'll have to create a lot of paperwork, of course. So I don't really see how you could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u96	The Minister has already announced that benchmark. One of the reasons why I say that the existing structure of the quality report and the improvement paragraph should be part of it is precisely what Mrs Kooiman says: we should not organise additional lists and additional administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u97	One of the considerations in the motion is to raise the best nursing homes to standard. But what's the best nursing home? We don't want unity sausage, we want diversity, do we? I asked earlier, also in an interruption debate with the VVD, for room for learning nursing homes. I believe that this is also in the quality framework. The best nursing homes are the learning nursing homes. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u98	Yeah, that's fine, but this is the second term. So we are not going to do the debate again. So your question is really about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u99	It is indeed about the motion, and I really need this in order to be able to point out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u100	Loving and good care that feels as much as at home as possible. The nursing homes where that works are, as far as I'm concerned, the best. As far as I am concerned, the answer is no to your question as to whether this will produce unity sausage and whether it will happen in the same way everywhere. Everyone does it in their own way, has their own approach and aligns it with the residents, the environment and the situation. So there's no single sausage. If the best nursing homes are the norm, that's an ambition for individual nursing homes to get a little better every day and make it feel a little more like home every day. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u102	I have two more questions for the Minister. The first one is about client support. I welcome the commitment that he will come up with a plan of action specifically addressing some of the vulnerable target groups mentioned. But I still want to ask him if that means that the general client support doesn't get any attention in that plan. Given the latest report that I read about it, namely that in which the NZa says some things about how client support goes from the health offices, it could get a little better. The second concerns a study announced by the Minister on the variation in Wlz rates, which should take into account the differences in real estate prices in the Randstad and beyond. Can the Minister state what the relationship is with the NZa's cost research that's going on? How does this relate to the entire operation that has taken place in recent years to start working with integral Wlz tariffs just from January 2018? Finally. Loving and good care that feels as much as at home asks for trust. In the first term, I said: I hope that we can give that confidence. In fact, I would like to make that a point: I am counting on us to give that confidence to each other in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for answering the questions. Thank you also to the officials for all the work they have done. I began my own speech by saying that the first debates show that they are three very different rulers, each with their own style. I think we've seen that confirmed today. I'd like to establish that for a moment. All three of them have hands-on mentality. We have also seen that confirmed. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, they can run a bit faster now and then and we do not agree on everything. I'd like to make a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipal policies make an important contribution to good and affordable care for people with a small scholarship;]] [[Considering that cooperation between municipalities and health insurance companies in providing care and supporting high added value;]] [[considers that all health insurers have a social responsibility in providing good and accessible care and the provision of a municipality policy contributes to this;]] [[calls on the government to consult municipalities and health insurers with a view to ensuring good cooperation between municipalities and health insurers at the interface of the medical and social domain, in which municipal policies can make a valuable contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the non-payment of the care premium is not a solution for a large group of people;]] [[considers that the current system of the scheme at least does not produce the desired result for part of the target group;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the current regime for undesirable effects and possible improvements, including the option of outflow from the regime for people under control as a (part) solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that carers are involved in the provision of care from the Wmo, the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act;]] [[noting that health insurers and health offices are sending signals that they face legal obstacles in supporting carers;]] [[believes that the great pressure on carers calls for optimal support;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the existence of legal obstacles in supporting carers;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how cooperation between municipalities, health insurance companies and health care offices can be promoted, which enables them to invest in each other's family support pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that up to 2020 EUR 15 million is allocated annually to the prevention and support of unintended pregnancies;]] [[Considers that this objective is part of a broader agenda to promote sexual health, including emphasis on preventing and responding adequately to sexually cross-border behaviour;]] [[Whereas the recently published National Action Plan on Sexual Health of RIVM and field parties are fulfilling this broad objective;]] [[calls on the Government not only to invest in prevention and support of unintended pregnancies, but also to pay attention to promoting positive sexual health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Dijksma and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-74]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say once again that I am very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment to better care for women with post-natal depression. I am very concerned about this and I think that many of them are with me. It is very good that we are finally getting more attention to this, that we are better informed society about this so that women are not alone in this, that we are also bringing in the people in training, obstetricians, maternity nurses, youth doctors and youth nurses, and that we are really going to do the screening that has already proved to be internationally effective. So thank you again for that. I will continue to follow you closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the answers given by the rulers. I was very pleased to see that there are even five round tables to reach a prevention agreement. I also welcome the answers we have received from the buddy project. I was going to table a motion on this, but at least I am not going to do that now. As far as the CDA is concerned, it concerns the care of people who are vulnerable to disability, illness, illness or old age. It is very important that we all want to continue to take care of those vulnerable people, but that solidarity is under pressure. Yesterday I indicated that this is due, among other things, to the jungle of policies that there is. You will understand that we would like to table a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers offer various basic insurances with identical conditions, whether or not by proxy or other channels, but with a different name and price;]] [[Whereas this makes the provision of basic insurance unnecessarily large and unclear;]] [[noting that the government is considering whether and how more transparency and standardisation of the overall policy offerings (including collections) of basic insurance can be achieved;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a zero measurement of how many identical policies are offered under different names and to inform the Chamber before April 2018;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber periodically thereafter after each transition season about the progress and development of achieving greater transparency and standardisation of the provision of basic insurance by health insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Pia Dijkstra, Dik-Faber, Ellemeet, Dijksma, Sazias and Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u108	In order to further support the reduction of this forest to policies, it is also important that the risk settlement works optimally. In any case, we are pleased that the turn-off for higher education has been made, but we still have a motion to support this further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a well-functioning risk settlement system is crucial to maintaining solidarity in the care system;]] [[noting that the risk settlement system is in constant maintenance in order to improve its functioning;]] [[Whereas care has been included in the Health Insurance Act since 2015, which is of a long-term nature and scale, such as long-term ggz and community care;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether the current risk settlement system is still adequate and appropriate, given that part of the long-term care has been brought under the Zvw, and to involve foreign researchers in this research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Dijksma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. We said that solidarity is under pressure, on the one hand, because of that jungle of policies, on the other hand, because costs are rising. Now it is quite unusual that these costs are also caused by the regulatory pressure, so if we can bring down the regulatory pressure, then it also saves costs. In Medical Contact of this month, one of these days there was an article from a doctor who had spent three hours trying to order a catheter, because he had placed the catheter that was in stock with someone in practice. That really makes people crazy. You will understand that we would also like to table a motion to support better cooperation and results, but in particular better information exchange and standardisation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the administrative burden and regulatory burden in the care are very high and that it is widely borne to reduce them;]] [[noting that quality records provide valuable information on the outcomes of care;]] [[noting the lack of guidance on this information, resulting in large fragmentation of information, high costs and large registration costs;]] [[noting that in other OECD countries there is a more central guidance for the conduct of quality records;]] [[Calls on the Government to advise a committee of experts before 1 July 2018 on a redesign of the quality records of the whole care in relation to the costs and results based on "one-time recording, multiple use" and to include good examples from home and abroad;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber on progress made within the so-called Information Council on a six-monthly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Aukje de Vries, Pia Dijkstra, Dijksma, Sazias and Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u110	Then I have one more question, Mr President. The answers we have received from the Minister mention, among other things, that not all new inpatient medicines are always tested. That is not going to happen below EUR 2.5 million, but we are also hearing even higher amounts. At macro level, too, it is not clear which treatments are most effective. That's when I really thought about that little nursery rhyme: Jantje once saw plums hanging, Oh, like eggs that big. Looks like Jantje was gonna go pick. His father forbade him. "Here's," he said, "Neither my father, nor the gardener who sees it, on a tree, so loaded, One does not miss five, six plums." Of course, it's easy to think: well, at 45 billion, those few million don't do anything. But many little ones make one big one. So we would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I see Mrs Ellemeet at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. I forgot to formalize my amendment to item No. Fifty-one to withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u113	The Ellemeet amendment (Doc. 51) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers very much for these two days in which we were able to exchange views. We've been asking questions. Perhaps the answer can be improved here and there, but if you see the amount of paper produced in a day, you also understand that the administrative apparatus has worked extremely hard. When it comes to care, that is also a good analogy. Of course, what we're doing here isn't for ourselves. There will be more money, especially for care for the elderly, but this is also necessary for those who need care. We must also enable the care staff to do so. We must enable them to give that care lovingly. For that we also need a certain rest. We have had the time of the major system changes, but we really need to see how we can improve quality within the current framework. This is also a little linked to the question of how we can reduce administrative burdens. How can we ensure that the money is actually spent on more staff and that we also enable those people to provide better quality? Indeed, the benchmark should not create additional burdens. I therefore hope that this benchmark can lead to such a format that we can reduce rules and things that are being asked. That is why I would like to table two motions. These motions highlight the focus on "reduction of administrative burdens," "bringing peace to the sector" and "working towards better quality." The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Wlz procurement framework leads to significant administrative burdens for both healthcare organisations and purchasers;]] [[noting that the price is being negotiated annually;]] [[Whereas multi-annual price and quality contracts avoid administrative burdens and provide financial clarity for healthcare providers;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with health offices, to reach concrete agreements on multi-annual contracts including quality and price agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg, Mr Hermans, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u115	In the run-up to this discussion, we have also discussed the double care trap. For many people, it is really incomprehensible that you can deal with more personal contributions and less hours of care from one form of care to another. That is why we are tabling the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large financial difference between the level of the own contribution for care at home (Wmo & Zvw) and the own contribution for care in the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz), while in some cases people get less care if they move from the Wmo neighbourhood care to the Wlz home;]] [[Whereas financial thresholds should never constitute an obstacle to being covered by the Wlz;]] [[whereas at present there is insufficient understanding of the extent of this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether the difference in own contribution schemes and the content of care prevents it from moving from the Wmo/Zvw system to the Long-Term Care Act, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u116	That's a very nice motion. I almost literally filed the same motion before the summer. So if it's okay, the department's already working to see if the difference between their own contributions and those unwanted incentives can be removed from the system. I would therefore like to consider not doing any duplication of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u117	We try to avoid duplication of work. I think we should see this as a reinforcement of your motion. Let's see what happens before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u118	Were you ready, Mr. Slootweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u119	Yes. This is where I came to the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr President, I was just muttering that I have 12 minutes and that I am going to read out 20 motions, but that is not the case. Mr. Chairman. My contribution was mainly about control. Control for patients, for people in need of care, for the elderly. I very much hope that these three directors, who are making a fresh start and who have been in this Chamber for many hours today, will regain control and say: this is what I am about to say and I find some of this; I see that patients are suffering and I am going to do something about it. Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, made a number of proposals in my own contribution. The SP has also made a very nice initiative note to give elderly people a place in their own neighbourhood. We called it a "care neighborhood house." It's a plan with all kinds of initiatives, because that's what the SP is like: if we want something, we get people from the field involved and then we get a good plan. That's what I filed. I've got a motion that can help that move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is a wish of many that older people can live and be accompanied in small-scale facilities in their own neighbourhood;]] [[noting that promoters of accessible small-scale housing with care for the elderly are exposed to obstructive rules, which constitute an undesirable barrier to the establishment of small-scale housing with care;]] [[calls on the Government, in response to the submitted own-initiative paper on the Zorgbuurthuis (34849), to take stock of obstructive rules and to come forward with proposals on how to remove these barriers in order to achieve small-scale reception in the neighbourhood and to inform the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u122	This motion has therefore been co-signed by the new leader of the SP, Mrs Marijnissen. Mr. Chairman. I'm so happy to explain the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement states that by means of key agreements, EUR 1.9 billion will be spent less in health care;]] [[believes that work in the care sector needs to be given greater recognition and that the challenge is already big enough to recruit sufficient care staff;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude from the main agreements the ova room, the public contribution to labour cost development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u123	I see a number of officials responding very enthusiastically. Mr. Chairman. The reason I tabled the motion is that the previous main agreement unfortunately had an impact on the oval. It is not so much a matter for me that the Minister sits at the table with the staff and that there is a separate negotiating table for it, but I think it is very important that that space remains available for the negotiations. This can be settled in the main agreements. My appeal is: at least stay away from the staff's conditions of employment. Mr President, I have a number of very nice proposals to make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Authority has found that hospital mergers do not have a demonstrable positive impact on the quality of care, and that the prices of treatments have increased;]] [[noting that public support for merging and growing hospitals appears to decline;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Authority Consumer & Market the opportunity to consider the support of local people and local politics in the care-specific merger test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u124	I would like to make it clear that this consideration is not entirely out of the blue. The Authority Consumer & Market has already written it down in its recommendation in its own investigation. But you see very much in the country that, where posts are closed and hospitals are closed, the weighting of the people and of the local councils is not included in the decision-making, and of course we want to do so. Then I have another very nice motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are health insurers who buy too little care, while sufficient budget is made available from VWS;]] [[noting that the people in need of care are the victims of this;]] [[noting that health insurers cannot currently be forced to buy in more care if this proves necessary;]] [[calls on the government to develop an instrument to force health insurance companies to buy more care if necessary to counter undesirable under-spending,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Dijksma and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u125	Of course, we talk very often about overspending. This motion is about combating under-utilisation. It's actually a very nice motion to help the rulers, I thought. Then I have a very nice motion to the rulers... It's beautiful, isn't Just before the report, Mr President, the directors also find it very nice, especially Minister De Jong is very enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u126	Well, then you know you can't say anything from box K anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u127	He didn't say anything, but I could tell by his appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u128	We can't do that anymore. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u129	Unfortunately, because I liked it. Mr President, when it comes to the Health Insurance Act, it must not be a secret that we are in favour of a completely different system. Care is not a market and man is not a product. We also very much want to see people just get care when they need it. You don't have to choose between sixty different policies. The point is, if you knock on the door at a hospital, with a doctor, with a paramedic, that care is just available and good. What worries me, too, is that our own risk remains. We have made several proposals to abolish or reduce this. Unfortunately, this has not yet led to a majority. This time I'm trying to throw it over another bow, which is to lower the premium. 'Cause it's just going up. I have also thought about this, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurance companies collect EUR 1 billion because people do not switch to another health insurance provider;]] [[noting that health insurers also have 11 billion in reserves on the shelf, of which 4 billion are above the statutory solvency requirements;]] [[calls on the government to force health insurers to use this money to substantially reduce premiums,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u130	For example, I have offered a whole package of very nice measures to these three new rulers, who are allowed to work nicely. I wish them every success in regaining control and returning to the people for whom it is about, namely the people who need care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions and little time. So I'll start reading my motions very quickly. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a substantial investment in nursing home care is being made in the coming cabinet period as a result of the new quality framework for nursing home care;]] [[noting that the CBS's household forecast predicts that the number of elderly people staying at home for longer will only increase;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a survey, which takes account of demographic, social and technological developments, in which it is possible that, in addition to improvements in nursing home care, quality care remains of good quality, taking into account all aspects of home care, such as housing combinations, housing adjustments, neighbourhood facilities, and home care and guidance, looking at divisions and laws and sending them to the Chamber at the end of the first quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Hermans, Mr Slootweg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u133	We now have a very long motion, partly on behalf of Mrs Luck, which is also present in the Chamber. I'll read to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that high-quality tools from the WMO contribute to the quality of life of people and that waste of care money should be avoided;]] [[noting that there have been many signs of problems with the provision and adaptation of tools for many years;]] [[noting that waste of resources is also caused by insufficient over-municipal action;]] [[Considering that in 2014 the VNG issued the Handleiding Purchasing Resources but it does not appear to have the intended effect;]] [[having noted that in spring 2018, the Cabinet will present an analysis in consultation with leather (in) and the VNG with the aim of resolving and addressing the identified bottlenecks;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this analysis:]] [[best practices procurement rules tools;]] [[how the quality control mechanism of the municipality can be increased, for example by tightening up and promoting the manual;]] [[what measures can be taken to prevent the surrender of resources in the event of relocation and re-use in a broader sense;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber on this matter before July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that connecting care and well-being can contribute to raising the quality of life of people and their environment;]] [[noting that there may be obstacles to the conduct of experiments in this field;]] [[Whereas the proposals (social trials) of Professor Anne-Mei The on dementia, as can be seen in her book "Living with dementia daily," show that there are indeed solutions to this problem that contribute to better care and guidance for people with dementia and their caregivers and also contribute to cost control;]] [[calls on the Government to support the roll-out of these specific experiments on dementia and household care, to approach health offices, health insurers, healthcare providers and municipalities to make an active contribution to this, and to reverse or decommission the barriers arising from the divisions problem and to inform the Chamber in mid-2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make it, too, dear! I am tabling this motion because a question was not answered and I only had three interruptions. You see, if you have more time, you're gonna elaborate a little bit, and I really shouldn't. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that forensic knowledge in the field of child abuse is of great importance;]] [[noting that funds have been allocated in the coalition agreement to strengthen forensic medical expertise for children (FMEK);]] [[noting that the Forensic Police Abuse of Children was closed on 1 March 2017;]] [[noting that part of the budget will be used for the further training of trusted doctors, forensic doctors and pediatricians;]] [[Considers that medical knowledge about child abuse is a separate medical specialism;]] [[calls on the government also to devote part of the budget, following the FPKM, to the realisation of more forensic doctors child abuse, centralised, for example at the GGD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Raemakers and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u136	You're really surprised to see that you have time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u137	Pretty much. I am very glad that I have time left to both regiments...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mrs. Pia Dijkstra, look at you very nicely
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u139	It's nice, isn't it? ...to thank the three rulers for their contribution. The same applies, of course, to the supporters. There's a lot of ambition in all three stories, and I'm glad. Much is going to happen in the first quarter of 2018. We look forward to that, but especially to the second quarter of 2018, because then we can find some. I would say: the head is off, getting started and then especially from systems to people! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u140	Thank you. Mrs Pia Dijkstra is very happy to be able to use a few more minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you stand here and you see that time still offers a little space, then we all tend to use it all the way to the end. All right, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to be short too, because time is not long. I thank the rulers for their answers. We have been told that these are rulers with a can-domeality. We'll see. What we have heard is promising, but we also have a lot to get in the first quarter of 2018 and we are waiting for that. We have talked about abortion, and the Minister says he has made a call and has heard that women can still go for abortion. But this week the Volkskrant sketched a somewhat more worrying picture: you have to travel far for it and there is a doubling of the waiting list. I won't elaborate on that, but it's really a different picture. 28% of women go directly to the abortion clinic without referral. That's what I'm saying to the minister who said: most women go through the GP. I have a motion on abortion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women, when they have made the choice for an abortion, also need help quickly;]] [[noting that due to the closure of the Casa Clinics, waiting lists may arise, or women must travel very far before abortion;]] [[Whereas it is important that women know where to go for abortion;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a temporary facility while the national coverage network is under pressure, where women can find out where they can get as close as possible for abortion and at what time;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible, in view of the urgency of the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u142	Then I have a motion on mental care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the movement of more concern from the second to the first line will be used;]] [[considers that we should pay attention to the burden on the general practitioner, who is faced with increasingly complex questions in this way;]] [[Whereas, in the first line, mental care providers can play an important role in helping patients in life-related questions and thus also relieve the general practitioner, but that initiatives on mental care and funding are currently very fragmented in the first line;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with mental care providers, general practitioners and health insurance providers, to consider the benefits of mental care and to examine whether mental care can be given a more structural place within the first line,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u143	I also asked the cabinet to set up knowledge infrastructure to disseminate good examples. I did not find the answer I received in the written reply very convincing. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that there are plenty of good examples in the care sector that we could use better;]] [[noting that innovation and the promotion of e-health are an important part of the main agreements concluded with medical and specialist care and with mental health care;]] [[noting that the area of concern is not always aware of initiatives taken in other regions and their results;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a knowledge infrastructure to gather, disseminate and anchor good examples and initiatives, including in the field of e-health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u144	I see my time is running out. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Minister has promised to keep the pharmaceutical industry in mind when it comes to the use of medication for women. He's still looking for a way to do that. If he found it, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use my second term to start by thanking the new rulers for their answers. It is important that they have done so comprehensively and generally very adequately. On a number of points, we still have a small incentive motion. This starts with the theme of clone policies. There were potentially a few words of the year that we would rather not see again. I think we're doing a good job on the fall. We also got a plan for the care drop. And yes, the Minister for Medical Care also wants to work with the machete in the polisjungle. He's not yet ready to ban cloning policies. I actually had a motion in mind to call him to do so now. But I thought, you know what, I'm not the worst either, I'm filing a motion in a slightly milder form. This motion will help the Minister in particular as a stick behind the door for those health insurance companies who have not yet understood that they simply have to stop doing so. I would ask the Minister to move to simply show what his instrument box can look like in his words "b" at the time he does. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the policy jungle no longer allows people to see the best policy for them;]] [[considers that equal policies at different prices lead to a false choice and do not contribute to the health insurance system;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how cloning policies can be prohibited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijksma, Mr Kooiman, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Arissen and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u147	We've been talking intensely about the general practitioners. A new broad agreement will be reached shortly, but there is already an additional amount of money available at the moment, which unfortunately does not always end up where they should be, namely with the general practitioners, sometimes also in disadvantaged areas. They've been calling the doorbell recently. I have asked written questions on this subject. I think it would be a good idea to take this dossier one step further by way of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many general practitioners experience a high workload and there is insufficient visibility of how additional resources are spent;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Health Authority, in consultation with general practitioners, wishes to improve the distribution of funds;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 March 2018 how much money will be made available to alleviate the workload, the distribution used and what this means in concrete terms for the workload of general practitioners in disadvantaged areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijksma, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kooiman, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Arissen and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u148	Then I come to the only shaky moment in Minister De Jonge's response. That was the discussion about the Netflix tariff and the way in which this wonderful gift announced in the government agreement is finally financed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to introduce a subscription rate in the Wmo;]] [[whereas the CPB has calculated that a uniform rate for WMO facilities costs EUR 290 million;]] [[calls on the Government to provide insight into the financing of the subscription rate in the Wmo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijksma, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u149	In the first period I asked this question in an interruption, I believe Mrs Dik-Faber. I would very much like to sign this motion as well, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u150	Oh. You can do all that. I'm also looking at my co-subscriber, because that's kind of chic. But I see he has no objection to that. So I think that's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u151	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u152	My last two comments relate to the two points which are at least not yet sufficiently clear. At the end of the day, 1.9 billion proceeds will have to be generated when the main agreements are concluded. And already the mathematicians have indicated that they expect that this will have a direct impact on the quality of care. We have received the written reply and I have studied it. In fact, I felt that in this case the government revolved around it. So I would now like to have another oral explanation. How do we intend to ensure that the quality of care is not actually at stake at such an amount? The last point I would like to highlight concerns Mrs Agema's contribution. She began her questions by commenting on the estimates and exceedances that we have known up to 2010. For a number of years now, however, we see that there are always windfalls. On that point, too, I did not find the written answer very strong, if I may put it mildly. It said: we do not have a report from the General Court. No, it may be, but the Court of Auditors is critical of this very point. I would like, following Mrs Agema's example, to hear from the rulers how they look at these windfalls and the fact that you may, in the end, fail to take care of yourself. That was my second-term contribution. I have exactly 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u153	Yes, we'll save it for you. Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. I now turn to Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their response and also for a number of commitments. I, too, have determined that we will get a lot in the first quarter of 2018. I look forward to that, and I look forward to all the debates that we are going to have with each other. I would like to make two points clearly. I had something in mind to perhaps table another motion on these points, but I am very pleased that this is being taken up swiftly. I know that the Secretary of State is working on a prevention agreement. He really convinced me how important it is for a smoke-free generation to grow up. So I look forward to the outcome of the round tables and the measures that might emerge from them when it comes to that smoke-free generation. The other point concerns positive health and the commitment to discuss it with the Minister for Medical Care in the light of my letter. I think that with positive health we can make a huge profit, for people themselves, for their well-being, but ultimately also for better care and care costs. Mr. Chairman. I have three relatively short motions. I'm gonna file it soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mental care is part of good care;]] [[Whereas mental care in the nursing home, in the neighbourhood care and as part of palliative care and ggz is under pressure, inter alia because of lack of clarity about funding;]] [[Whereas mental care should be accessible and appropriate to the philosophy of life;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a thematic investigation into the accessibility and reimbursement of mental care within the relevant care areas and to inform the Chamber of the summer recess 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the National Programme for Palliative Care (NPPZ) expires in 2020;]] [[Whereas a long-term perspective is needed to further implement the activities carried out under the NPPZ in order to raise the level of palliative care in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the NPPZ should not focus on finalisation in the coming years, as it remains unclear how the NPPZ will continue beyond 2020;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the Steering Group on Palliative Care with the aim of continuing the NPPZ after 2020, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-96]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u155	And the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the administrative agreement on general practitioner care and multidisciplinary care 2018 has agreed to address bottlenecks in general practitioner care (such as vulnerable elderly people living longer at home, ggz patients and additional investments in disadvantaged neighbourhoods), and that additional money is also available for this purpose;]] [[Whereas there has been a failure in general care for some years and healthcare insurers have used only a (small) part of the growth area agreed in the agreement to address these bottlenecks in the contract;]] [[Whereas the desired movement of greater concern from the second to the first line can only succeed if the existing bottlenecks in the first line are effectively addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to include in a new broad agreement on general practitioners' care guarantees that national agreements on tackling bottlenecks will actually be translated into local contracts between health insurers and general practitioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u157	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Arissen, on behalf of the Animal Party. What do you have with you, Mrs. Arissen? Mind if I take a look? Oh, a whole collection of sweets. I used to be an MP once, so it's hard for me to stop this now! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I brought something along, because in 2013 the then Secretary of State made a commitment to the Chamber: I'm going to make industry agreements for the last time; this is the last warning and then the industry really has to stop marketing for children, otherwise we'll go into regulation. Well, here's the result. We scored this today: a lot of sugar, Minions, Neighbor and Neighbor, Dora...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u159	Don't advertise candy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u160	Exactly! We do want that commercial to stop, and therefore the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agreements with inter-branch organisations on child marketing are systematically ignored;]] [[considers that sufficient "last warnings" have been given;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit child marketing for unhealthy products targeting children under 12 years of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u161	I'd like to offer all these sweets to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u162	Don't eat it all, it's very unhealthy! The messenger will give it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that companies placing unhealthy products on the market are part of the problem and cannot therefore be part of the solution;]] [[Whereas the 170 million earmarked for the prevention agreement should not be intended to make these companies look good with their so-called contribution to combating overweight;]] [[calls on the government not to include companies in the negotiations on the prevention agreement if they make money selling unhealthy products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a green environment contributes to children's health;]] [[calls on the government to make a proactive commitment to green play facilities in the neighbourhood and to inform the Chamber about progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various scientific studies show that there is a direct link between animal protein consumption and welfare diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an information campaign on less meat for better health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-100]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-101]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u164	My final motion concerns animals in health care institutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pets have many positive effects on people's mental and physical health;]] [[noting that it is too common for pets not to be allowed to go to a care establishment;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with industry organisation ActiZ on how health care institutions can broaden the possibility of carrying a pet and inform the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Arissen, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Sazias, Mr Dijksma, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Agema and Mr Kooiman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Sazias. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a minute. I thank the rulers for their reply. I've heard a lot of good intentions. That is why I have a few more motions to encourage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas malnutrition among the elderly in health care institutions and living at home by 15% to 30% is still too high;]] [[Whereas good nutrition makes an important contribution to staying healthy, recovering and preventing serious complications;]] [[Whereas, for this reason, the approach to malnutrition is also a responsibility of health care providers;]] [[Whereas it is important to know which health care provider is primarily responsible for this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with relevant parties how to further improve the approach to malnutrition in healthcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one in nine 65-plussers dies of the consequences of a fall;]] [[Whereas a fall can lead to a great deal of human suffering, but also to a high cost of care;]] [[whereas there are several projects and programmes, but the number of falls in the Netherlands is not decreasing;]] [[calls on the government to make prevention of falls in older people a priority within the National Prevention Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Kooiman, Mr Dijksma, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-104]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Kooiman, Mr Dijksma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u168	I have tabled so many motions for resolutions on this. Can I join you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u169	I think so. The more the merrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u170	Given the way you ask, no one can say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u171	I'm assuming that's okay, right? I see that Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dijksma are fine with it. I see Mr Van der Staaij agrees. There's a lot to be gained from a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u172	Look. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u173	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a medication assessment makes an important contribution to reducing healthcare costs, but also to the well-being of people;]] [[Whereas more and more efforts are being made to carry out the medication assessment;]] [[Whereas some health insurers have placed the medication assessment outside their own risk;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage health insurers to place the medication assessment beyond their own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Kooiman, Mr Dijksma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u174	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new government is committed to increasing the number of medical specialists employed;]] [[Whereas saving on healthcare costs is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a concrete plan of action to this end and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, gentlemen. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u176	Right in time, this time. It's good, isn't it? Thank you, Mrs Sazias. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij. He is, of course, speaking on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply and the commitments they have made on various subjects. It also had an important character, I think. What's coming? What are we going to talk about in the coming period? I also learned today that no less than two of the three rulers are the vicar's son. You can tell by the gift of the word. I also understand now why Minister Bruins was a little bit more concise. He misses having a pastor as a father, of course, but I read that he can listen very well. That makes me interested in his parents' profession, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. I will refrain from further reflections and confine myself to tabling my motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a result of the Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care, €2.1 billion will be available in structural terms to meet the new standards for good nursing home care;]] [[considers that the allocation of the additional budget should not lead to an increase in administrative burdens;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the purchase of nursing home care does not impose new administrative burdens, by joining the quality plan to be drawn up by nursing homes and by ensuring that both internal and external accountability is carried out through the quality report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dijksma and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u178	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas despite the Van der Staaij/Bruins Slot motion (34300-XVI, No. 77) falls short of the standardisation of procurement, quality and invoicing requirements for care provided under the Health Insurance Act;]] [[calls on the Government to further standardise procurement, quality and invoicing conditions in order to reduce administrative burdens, in consultation with (representatives of) health insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dijksma, Mr Sazias, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u179	Finally, a motion on minimum prices for alcohol. In the written reply it was said that the cabinet found a step too far. I would like to call for this, precisely because in the past we had quite broad-based motions calling for stunners with beer or other beverages to be prevented. This seems to me to be a useful addition to the prevention policy. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court has repeatedly asked the Government to prevent the sale of alcohol at prices for alcoholic beverages with a statutory ban on the sale of alcohol below the cost price, but that this wish has not been implemented until now because of the belief that this would be contrary to European law;]] [[Whereas, according to a recent ruling by the British Supreme Court, European law does allow the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to implement the Court's open request and to bring forward, in the short term, a legislative proposal for the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVI-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand the Minister can answer directly. The last two or three motions by Mr Van der Staaij will be copied and distributed in a moment. I assume that a division has been made in the reply, because 55 motions have been tabled. All right, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u182	Mr. Chairman. Only 55 motions! I have heard many of you say that the motions are primarily for encouragement. You have been extremely encouraging this afternoon. Of course, the three of us would like to work with those encouragements. I think it would be a good idea, in the second term, to confine myself to dealing with the motions and a single amendment. Let me start with that. First of all, I should like to refer to Amendment No 1, which deals with Amendment No 2. 10, in which it asks for 610 million to be added to the Municipal Fund. That addition is covered by the expat scheme. I would like to dissuade this amendment because it is not really apparent from the exhaustion of the WMO budget in municipalities that there should be a supplementary budget. Moreover, the proposed coverage is contrary to the separation between revenue and expenditure. The motion-Agema in part No. 60 asks the government to come up with an overhead standard. In the first term, I said that I find such a standard a very interesting thought. If you're developing a benchmark where you look at the 25% best performing institutions, it's very good to compare how the overhead at one institution relates to the overhead of the other and then to see if you can make the best quartile, the best 25%, standard in handling an overhead rate in the NZa's tariff setting. So I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, with that explanation, but I think you already understood that. The motion in part No. 61 does not ask for promotion to be required, and that is what I like about the fact that municipalities with residents who are 80 years of age or older have a contact moment every year. That's what I used to do in Rotterdam. That's another reason it appeals to me. Another reason is that it just works to look people up, to go after them. I would like to encourage municipalities to do so, although Rotterdam Raalte is not. You must also want to keep room for local differences, but I would very much like to encourage it, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 62 on the five-minute records. I have said that I want to get rid of that. In fact, I thought we had already said goodbye to that, but it still appears to be in a single practice. That means that I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, because that five-minute registration is high on the list of priorities when removing administrative burdens. Then the motion to part No. 63 on the indication. I would advise against this motion, following on from what I said about it in the first term. Of course, the field and the CIZ have done a good pilot on that. That pilot gives absolute reason to see how we can do that wider, with the default that the field itself dictates and that the CIZ is testing. That second part: if that doesn't work, you're going back to the old regime of administrative burdens, which doesn't seem very feasible to me, so I want to have more time to think about how we can handle the results of that pilot in a good way. That's what I need to discuss with the field and the CIZ. In the first quarter, I will come back to how I am going to do that, so maybe we can have a discussion about that. That principle of high trust, high penalty is a wonderful principle of steering, but I would advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 64. I would also like to discourage it in its present form. Perhaps you could hold on to this until the approach of nursing home care goes to the Chamber. It's about rolling out best practices, but of course situations are always different. At the same time, I also want an approach in which one nursing home learns from another. That's exactly what I want to incorporate into that approach of nursing home care. I believe in mirroring each other through that benchmark and I also believe that you can get on with each other, but now national best practices roll out I find complicated to do, also in relation to making that approach to nursing care that I was planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u183	I regret that, because this motion was adopted two years ago. I hear all my colleagues here saying that the best performing nursing homes should become the norm. That is why I thought: I will take my motion off the table again and let the Chamber make the statement we made two years ago. Then I find it a bit unfortunate that this is now being dissuaded. That would mean that something we all want, as everyone here points out, including the coalition parties, will eventually not be implemented, namely that the best performing nursing homes will become the norm. It's a bit of a shame if that's not our general goal anymore. The motion can also be read in this way: the best performing nursing homes become the norm and then we want it to happen everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u184	Okay. Let me go with Mrs Agema, with this interpretation: we are going to take an approach to nursing care where it is important that nursing homes learn from each other; what you can or cannot do within the current and future budgets; how you can get better tomorrow than you were yesterday. If I can read the motion in such a way that that's what it's about, I can just leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mrs. Bergkamp, on the same motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u188	I have a question so that we can also appreciate the motion. The motion calls for this money to be returned to the nursing homes. I was wondering if that is also part of the story on which the Minister pronounces "judgement chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u189	We just reinterpreted the motion. If I can explain the motion in such a way that it is about learning from each other's approach, about the fact that nursing homes are learning from each other and that they are mirroring themselves together, then I can do just fine with that motion. I would not like to add much more than that to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u190	It's about fear: for example, if you have an overhead of 7% and it's doing much better than someone with 15%, this shouldn't mean you get less money a year later. That's where that fear comes from. It seems to me that an institution that is doing better, for example, there is a lower prevalence of malnutrition, lying wounds or dehydration, which will not ultimately be fined for this. An institution is doing better; that becomes the national standard and we are going to try to make everyone so good. You don't want this institution to end up getting a fine or a lower rate. That's where that fear comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u191	Good. Minister, I'd say you're moving on. I see everyone looking a little weird. The motion shall be put to the vote. Mrs Hermans, on that same motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u192	Yeah, about this motion. I think it's getting confusing right now. The Minister's giving us an explanation. I agree with that, but Mrs Agema's motion calls for the national roll-out; the best nursing home will be the norm. I have said a few times myself that there should not be a roll-out of one way, of one form for all nursing homes. This was also the subject of my little interrupting debate with Mrs Dik-Faber. For me, it is just as confusing: what exactly is left of the text and the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u193	Mrs. Agema can explain herself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u194	It doesn't all have to be made harder than it is. If you have a lower prevalence of malnutrition, you do better. We have institutions that have a prevalence of 25% and institutions that have a prevalence of 4%. So we are going to try to help as many institutions as possible so that they have a lower prevalence of malnutrition, dehydration, lying wounds and all the other indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u195	Is it an idea to make this motion maybe... This is getting too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u196	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u197	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr President, I think it is not so bad. I see all kinds of despair in the room. A motion has been tabled and I have given an explanation: I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. If anything other than that is expected, I have to make the motion in part no. 64 dissuade. I think I already said that. For the rest, of course, the Chamber can always know for itself how it deals with it in the vote. Then I shall come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma on part No. 65 which calls for an increase in the detection of fraud. I would ask Mrs Agema to hold that motion. I ask this because my colleague in the debate with the Chamber has promised to inform you of this before Christmas. The approach to fraud is dealt with, including the intensification of it. Whether you would like to step up the approach to fraud in relation to this commitment is, in my view, a matter of debate first. I would therefore ask the author to hold this motion. Then the motion-Agema in part No. 66. This concerns night care and the occupation standard. We had a debate on that. I can advise against that motion. This has everything to do with the fact that the cabinet is based on the quality framework that is registered in the Healthcare Institute. That is the basis for the calculations we are doing. We must build on the quality framework and what it contains. So I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u199	You are referring to the motion in part No. 65? Sorry, the motion to part No. 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u200	Yes, no. 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u201	The request was for the motion in part No. Sixty-five.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u202	The motion in part No. 65: Hold on. The motion in part No. 66: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u203	Or what? What's your verdict? Mrs. Agema first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u204	I keep motions on so many occasions, but then I don't hear about them anymore, which would be nice for the preparation of this debate, for example. I'd like to hold the motion, but it'll be nice to hear from you in six weeks before the motion lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u205	For Christmas, and probably Christmas is in six weeks, you'll get a fraud approach from the Cabinet. That commitment has been made by my colleague, and he is going to honour it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u206	Are you holding the motion, Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u208	At the request of Mrs Agema, I propose her motion (34775-XVI, No. 65). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u209	Then I come to the motion on part No. 67, which calls for the 4 to 9 package of care gravity to be combined. I am not going to repeat the debate we had on this in the first term. You'll understand that I'm dissuading this motion. Nevertheless, a cost study is currently being carried out by the NZa. This will lead to new rates forzzp's by 2019. That is a good time to see how we can simplify things, so I think it would be a good time to re-examine the debate at that time. Then I have had Mrs Agema's motions, but there is still the question of estimates. I am also a little reluctant to repeat the whole debate of the first term. It's just, I think, we don't even agree on estimates. The bottomline of the message I tried to deliver in the first term is that care costs will increase significantly, significantly. The estimates contained in the budget for this purpose are based on expectations. On the contrary, we must want the realization not to meet those expectations. That is why we have agreed to conclude key agreements, to ensure that we keep this huge increase in healthcare costs, and I have calculated to you that we are talking about 18 billion dollars in this cabinet period. That is our mission, and that is a joint mission. This is the very best way to control the cost of care and the accumulation of care costs for people. We need to get to work on that. You said that because these estimates differ from actual expenditure, people ultimately pay too much. But that is not, of course, because the windfalls in expenditure are returned in the following years, in lower premiums or in a correction to the care allowance. That's all taken into account, so it's not like people pay too much. In the last four years, for example, 5.5 billion has been returned. It is therefore not the case that citizens pay more when estimates are higher. The estimates determine for us the expenditure ceiling under which we have to remain. That is the ceiling which the Chamber says to the cabinet: you must stay below it. We'll stick to that. That is the one side, the function of these estimates, but there is no ceiling effect on giving care to people. So people don't notice when an estimate deviates from the realization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u210	I really want to believe this, but I have turned this off externally in the preparation of this debate, and I can really get confirmation that those windfalls are going to the treasury to cope with exceedances elsewhere. It's not gonna stay with us at VWS. So that's one concern. The other point is: if you start to estimate very high, there are also very high estimates for a calculation premium, for your own risk or for anything else. If you turn out to be so wrong...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u211	Thank you, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u212	...all kinds of scared stories are created that are never gonna come out. It's been four times too high. We're not gonna do it all over again, but if you window four times too much...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mrs Agema, you have tabled 20 motions and you are not going to re-examine the whole debate with each motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u214	I've filed 13 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u215	For my part, you've filed twenty. All right, finish your sentence, but then we'll move on real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u216	The concerns remain great. I just think it's really weird that we've had 25 years of setbacks until 2010 and that from 2013 we've suddenly had huge windfalls. That's really weird. It's a different kind of windows or something; that's changed. It'll make for panic stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u217	I have also mentioned this issue in my contribution. I have a proposition. The minister says, "We don't agree." That's to be seen. Would he undertake to give us a technical briefing from his department on this subject? Then we can continue the discussion first in technology and then very quickly in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u218	I look forward to it. Mrs Agema also said at the end of her speech that we were going to come back to it. I thought that was such a hopeful gift. We've been here a while, probably three and a half years. I would therefore very much like to re-examine that debate at some point. And a technical briefing can of course be very supportive. So let me promise. Good proposal! Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 71 of the VVD. It also contains an encouragement, at least that's how I read her. It's quite a flowery encouragement, though. I suspect that, in terms of height, it can even be placed on a literature list of an average high school. In my view, the content of the motion is very much in line with my first-term argument. This is indeed the way in which we should work in a non-committal way with the improvement of nursing home care. I would like to make a few comments before I leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. That's what it's in a few words where it's just how you read it. This is often the case with literature. I refer, for example, to the phrase 'incentives can be brought into procurement by health offices in order to stimulate innovation among healthcare providers'. On the contrary, I would like to opt for peace of mind on the question of funding. If you mean incentive payment, I'm not excited about that. If by this you mean that the procurement must be done in a qualitative way, which is also a form of incentive, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. If you mean more than that, if you mean incentive payment, then I must discourage the motion. So I'd like to check that out. The same applies to the following indent, which states that innovation will be stimulated and rewarded. Yes, reward in the sense of a qualitative way of buying in, but again do not subsidise individual projects and also introduce a form of incentive payment for innovation, because I really don't believe in that. I'm not gonna do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u219	Short reaction, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u220	I'll make my reaction less flowery than the motion. I do not mean incentive payment, I am purely concerned with improving the quality of procurement, so that the quality of care can be improved. I can also imagine that that means that you are also having that conversation with the health insurance companies, so that they also have it on the agenda of the health offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u221	Then we agree and I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 74 of GroenLinks on investigating whether there are legal obstacles in supporting carers. I interpret the motion in such a way that this is particularly the case if the client himself receives care from one domain, for example through the Health Insurance Act, and the caregiver should actually be supported from the other domain. Is that getting together in a good way right now? I think it is very important to support the care of the family in a good way, especially in the case of care from several systems. There is still a world to be won. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House. Then the motion to part No. 79 on multi-annual contracts containing agreements on quality and price. Multi-annual contracts mean rest in the financing of institutions. I think here too that if we provide peace of mind in funding for institutions, all the time and attention in the head of the executive there can go to improving care. That's exactly what's important. With multi-annual contracts, institutions also dare to make more investments. You'll have more opportunities to get investment space out of banks, too. So multi-annual contracts are really a really good idea in all respects. I would therefore like to leave this to the House. Then the motion to part No. 81 of Mr Kooiman and Mr Marijnissen. It is certainly honorable to have a motion from a party leader put under the nose in the debate. That motion concerns the submitted own-initiative paper. I think we have had a good debate on this. That's how I see the impact in the motion. I'd really like to get started on this and I'd like to see how we're doing that small-scale... Here it says "small-scale care" but I think you mean small-scale forms of living and care in the neighborhood. We'll see how we can achieve it. In doing so, we will learn from the existing examples. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. It's about the motion in part No. 81.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u223	Then... I'm super well-managed, Mr. Chairman, but I have to take a look anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u224	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u225	The administrative burden on this side is not easy either. Yeah, here I am again. Then the motion-Bergkamp c.s. in piece No. 86. The first thing I want to say about this is that for verbs in the third person singular the rule "strain plus t" applies. The second thing I would like to say about this is that I would very much like to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. It is indeed necessary that we focus on that care at home. The question is how to keep it financially viable and also how to keep it organizeable with a substantially higher proportion of older people in our society. It's about now and it's about the longer term. I'd really like to do that reconnaissance. So I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The Bergkamp/Geluk-Poortvliet motion in part No. 87 is about the point of waste. It calls for a number of things to be done to combat this waste. The analysis is ongoing. Stopting the waste of care is something we have to want with each other. I would also like to proceed with this motion. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber as well. The motion-Bergkamp c.s. in piece No. 88 is about dementia care. It refers to the story of Mrs The. I can assume that these experiments, in order to support them properly, do not require any system changes. If I may understand the motion in this way, I will be happy to make an active contribution to its wider disclosure. Then we can see if others could learn from the experiments that have been done at this point. I would also like to leave this to the Chamber. I saw an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u226	The judgment is therefore left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u227	The minister said "if I may understand the motion in that way." I meant it like that. There is no need for a system change. That can be concluded by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u228	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u229	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u230	Then I'll go to the Bergkamp motion camp. in piece No. 89. It's a little more complex. I think I fully agree with the objective behind this motion, namely to address care in a good way. Then it's about being sufficiently available forensic-medical expertise for child abuse. I wrote you a letter on that. I understand you had a few questions about that. The form in which you ask that question is by means of a motion. That makes it a little complicated. I can ask you to hold that motion because I am currently working on the further development of the opinion of the Forest Committee. This makes the clear choice to invest forensic expertise at the NFI and at the LECK and also to see how you can have that expertise available in the region. For example, this could be done at the GGD. This is the portee of that advice and the way I want to work on it. I wrote that to you, but now ask this motion to "forensic doctors child abuse centralisedly" to get started at the GGD, for example. On the contrary, the GGD is highly decentralised. The centralised expertise is with the NFI and the LECK. Decentralised expertise could then reach the GGDs. That was the idea of the opinion and also the idea of drawing up that opinion. That is how I intend to proceed, but I would like to suggest this: I am writing to you at the moment that we have been prepared to do exactly how we want that part. Then we can resume the debate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u231	Just a few more sentences about this. The idea behind the motion is that there should be more forensic doctors specializing in child abuse. So it's not just about spreading some knowledge and it's not about forensic doctors from the NFI getting three days of training. It is a matter of course because of the fact that the outpatient clinic in Utrecht is no longer there, that a number of forensic doctors are no longer available for child abuse. Now it is true that I think there are two working for the GGD. They have now been given a national position...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u232	Clear, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u233	Just like the FMMK. It was centered in Utrecht, but worked very nationwide. If the Minister can take this particular point and inform the Chamber, I am curious when the Chamber will be able to return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u234	This goes down in depth and detail, so I would like to suggest that I return to it in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u235	The question is then whether you want Mrs Bergkamp to hold on to her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u236	I would like the motion to be held until then. If I mean "spring" February, you don't have to wait very long for it either. Early spring is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u237	The Minister can read my mind. I thought spring was very spacious, but when it comes to February, I'll hold on to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u238	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (34775-XVI, No. 89). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u239	Spring lasts until July for a lot of people, but I thought: early spring, that should be good. Then I come to the motion by Mr Pia Dijkstra/Aukje de Vries on part No. 92 on knowledge infrastructure and good examples. I would advise against that motion. Set up a knowledge infrastructure... There is already a great deal of knowledge infrastructure. In my view, this is not so much a question of whether we can set up a new knowledge infrastructure as it is a question of scaling up good practice and implementing existing knowledge. That is much more the issue here. Of course, we will be working on this with all our love, but I would like to advise against the motion in this form. Then I come to the motion by Mr Dik Faber/Slootweg on part No. 96 on mental care. Mental care is seen as part of good care within the framework of the quality framework, and rightly so. It is indeed interesting to get a good picture of that. That is why I shall leave the House to decide on the motion. The motion by Mr Dik Faber/Van der Staaij in part No. 97 is about talking to the Steering Group on Palliative Care, with the aim of continuing the programme after 2020. In fact, good steps have already been taken in the national programme to improve palliative care. It's of enormous importance. The coalition agreement gives value to this, inter alia through the granting of additional funds in the context of dignified ageing. I still have to look at the form and extent of this, but the authors are asking: look at it and come back to it. On this motion, too, I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion Arissen c.s. in piece No. 103. Benchmarks and beasts: today we have really gone through all the corners of nursing home care. It is of course true that care in nursing homes should actually feel as "home" as possible. That includes pets. Of course it helps, especially to prevent something like loneliness. But there may also be practical obstacles, so I do not like obligations from The Hague. I told you. But if I understand the motion in such a way that it is essentially about an incentive and about entering into the discussion on where any obstacles might be and whether they should be removed, I would like to do so and leave it to the Chamber. Then there is one more motion, tabled by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, to which I must refer. It calls on the government to ensure that buying-in does not impose new administrative burdens. I understand that "no new" in the motion in part No. 108 as "preferably less on balance," because that benchmark should actually work. Both for the inspection and for the NZa and the improvement programme, it must provide a useful set of indicators, so that we do not have to ask new questions from institutions all the time. So that benchmark should also be used for purchasing. But that benchmark is something new. So there will be something new, but that is precisely to reduce other administrative burdens. That is to say, on balance, less administrative burden. If I can read her like that, I'd like to get on with it. You yourself, Mr Van der Staaij, refer to the quality plan and the quality report, and I think you mean not all kinds of new planning on top of that. And I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u240	That is indeed the Minister's right to explain the motion. That is what it is meant to do, and that reference to the quality plan and report is therefore just new in the quality framework. That is what the institutions are doing now and let that be the channel through which things are going to go, so that we do not put too many new avenues of accountability on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u241	But then I will really ask you to hold this motion and assess the improvement plan at the time it is there. Look, I've got to have room to get to work. If I had to assume "yes, but first hold on to what you have," I don't know if that will bring about the movement we want. On the contrary, I would like to work out a good approach with the sector. That is about the task I have just received from the other motion, at least if it is adopted. But I'd like to work on it that way. Therefore, if you mean'make sure that, on balance, the approach does not lead to more administrative burdens but to less', then that is certainly a task that I would like to work with. But just give me some space to shape it for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u242	I think that room's there, too. All I mean by that new quality plan and quality report is... I also notice a movement at the health offices, because they say: we are no longer going to ask for all kinds of extra plans at certain subsidy jars. They now say: do so in that quality plan. That is a new movement that we must give a chance, without having to organize a Christmas tree around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u243	Absolutely. I very much agree with that. If you explain the motion in this way, I can support the motion and leave the verdict to the Chamber. I forgot one motion, Mr. Chairman. Wrongly, totally wrong! However, I do not find it so easy to see what is actually being asked in this. Because I said I was gonna do this. I am referring now to Mrs Dijksma's motion on item No. 95, co-signed by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u244	And mess with Agema!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u245	And Mrs. Agema. Indeed, it is mentioned. An exotic combination by the way, but that is beautiful. That motion calls on the government to make it clear what the financing of the subscription rate in the Wmo will look like. Yeah, of course I should. The budget available in the coalition agreement is contained in the same coalition agreement. That's what I'm gonna do. I am going to work with the municipalities and then I will come back to that. I have just said it again. When I come back to that, of course, I will make it clear what the financing of that subscription rate will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u246	No, Mr. Chairman. The point is that we are going to get some insight into what you already have in the books and what needs to be added. The Minister must make it clear how this should be organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u247	But then the motion has already been withdrawn, because you have already seen the financial paragraph in the government agreement which allocates 145 million to the subscription rate. Then it's already made clear. On that basis, I will enter into the conversation with the municipalities. I have told you that I am doing so in the context of the fact that there is also an accres and that there is also considerable room for manoeuvre by means of the decentralised forms of care. In that context, I will talk to the municipalities. The outcome of that conversation will be what that subscription rate will look like. Then I'll come back to the Chamber and then, of course, I'll show you how we're going to pay. So I don't see what assignment I'm getting with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u248	I'd like to make that very clear. I simply want to understand what you are saying now about what is apparently available to the municipalities. You will assume that, because in the first instance you had an inimitable ownership for me. It seems to me that it is the least we can get as a Chamber on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u249	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but then I'll write down a piece of the coalition agreement. I don't think that's gonna do you any good either. I'll talk to the congregations and I'll report the outcome. Then you can say whether you are excited about it or not. I do not see what this adds to the conversation I have with municipalities or to the controlling task of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u250	Finally, Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u251	I'm gonna try again, Mr. Chairman. There seems to be an assumption, let me put it this way, that the municipalities can add to the other 145 million with ease, or perhaps with difficulty, but still. That assumption is not in the coalition agreement in so many words. I'd like that on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u252	Then I can do two things. I can ask Mrs Dijksma to hold the motion. Then I will return to the Chamber with the resultant of the conversation with the congregations. That's a road. I can also say that this is really unnecessary, because I have just explained what is in the coalition agreement and you know the coalition agreement. Then that motion is superfluous and I must dissuade her in that sense. It's either one of those two: either I ask you to hold the motion or I advise her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u253	You have until next Tuesday, Mrs Dijksma. Proceed, Minister. And don't look at Mrs Hermans, who's standing near the interrupting microphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u254	Mr President, I will never look at Mrs Hermans again. I think I had come to the end of the answer. I have a few final comments to make. I look forward to further cooperation with the House of Representatives to improve care in the Netherlands. I was pleased to see today that a lot of concrete plans have been submitted, and we certainly need to get to work on them. I can reassure Mr Van der Staaij, because he expressed a bit of his fear in the first term, such as: after the first quarter, will there be anything else coming to the House of Representatives? Do we have anything to talk about? After that first quarter, there will just be a second quarter. Moreover, spring has arrived, so it can only get better. I understand, Mr. Chairman, and finally... No, one more comment before I start my final comment. I would like to thank all those people who have worked so hard over the last few days to answer all these questions and to support us, very much for their hard work. That was the one-after-last remark. The last one is a comment in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. I understand that it was always a tradition that Martin van Rijn mentioned in his debates a Bible text in your direction and in the direction of anyone who was inspired by it. Traditions are there to continue, I always find. So I want to continue with that tradition today and have chosen a beautiful text from Ecclesiastes 4: "Two are better than one; for together they get a good reward for their toil. When they fall, one helps his companion up. Woe to the one who falls, when there is no second to help him up." Well, that seemed to me both for concern and in politics a wonderful idea to go along with in the years to come. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u255	Thank you. Mrs Hermans, are you sure you have to? I thought it was such a nice closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u256	Yes, Mr President, I am also sorry to have to break through this poetic end with a practical question, but I would like to do it. It is about the Kooiman/Marijnissen motion in part No. 81, which the Minister has given to the Chamber of Appeal. I want to understand that motion. You're going to investigate the obstructive rules within the current system. So the initiative paper goes on, because it actually wants to change the system. Mr. Chairman. I just realized that I should have just asked Mrs Kooiman this question, but I realize it too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u257	Thank you. I give Mrs Kooiman the floor briefly. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u258	Mr President, I find it rather faint. It is good practice for a ruler to respond to an initiative paper. I have recorded it in a motion, also as a tribute to my new party leader, because she has had so much work done on it. It is very reasonable that the Minister has said: I am going to respond to this. That doesn't mean he'll take over everything right away, because we can disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u259	But Mrs Hermans had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u260	I'll ask him to respond to those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u261	Mrs Kooiman, Mrs Hermans has a question. It was probably necessary to assess whether or not she wanted to vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u262	I'd already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u263	Good. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u264	I have responded as I have responded, also in the light of my response in the first period. I have said that there is a quicker way to achieve what Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Marijnissen want than the route they themselves choose and the steps they themselves take in the own initiative paper. So I'm gonna tell you that that's gonna be my reaction. But the motion calls for even more, namely to identify what obstacles can be and to propose how to remove those obstacles in order to achieve a small-scale form of living and care. I think that's what we really need to do, so I'd really like to get to work on this. That way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u265	Good. Thank you, also for your lovely words at the end. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u266	Thank you, Mr President. To Mr Van der Staaij I would like to say that my father was not a minister, but in the church council. They can also talk for a very long time. There's not much to do for that, but I won't do it. A few comments before I get to the motions and the amendments. Mrs De Vries asked not to look at the main agreements separately, but to discuss them in conjunction with each other. It's necessary. For example, in broad agreements for medical specialist care and for general practitioners, this development needs to be initiated. So these are basic agreements that you should look at in conjunction with each other. I have also mentioned a number of examples, such as the labour market and also transparency and regulatory pressure, which will be dealt with in several main agreements. Mrs De Vries also asked about the ACM's report on new entrants in the insurance market. I'll make a comment on that. I will focus on the possibilities for accession, but also on points where it does not succeed, which hinder that accession. So I'll come back to that. In her speech, Mrs Van den Berg asked a question about the assessment of medicinal products, whether it is 2.5 million or 8 million. It's all a lot of money for us. I'm going to cross out with you one more time where you read the 8 million, Mrs Van den Berg. I understand it's 2.5 million. There is a form of risk-oriented package management. In the AO on medicines, I promised to write you a letter with an analysis of this risk-based package management and I would like to take this point with me. Mrs Dijksma mentioned a matter of concern in her speech in the second term: if you are going to conclude basic agreements and there is less available, is it not true that the risk is that the quality must be put on the shovel? Of course, we don't intend to. There is the transition from second line to first line, or to one-and-a-half or zero line and perhaps sometimes third line. These are all examples of ways to get to cheaper care, cheaper care reasoning from the patient. In addition, we have discussed in detail in the first period that in fact all the political groups have done that issues such as e-health and a different way of working should also contribute to curbing the cost of care. So less more and a number of agreements have to be made by countries in these broad agreements. Then it must be possible to make that quality better and not worse. Then I will have a large pile of motions and then two more amendments. First of all, the motion in part No. 56 requesting the government to introduce a mandatory driver test for all administrative functions in the care sector. In the first term, I've already announced that I'd like to discourage that motion. I am not in favour of this. I believe that the healthcare institutions and the healthcare industry should take the lead in this area themselves. In the motion in part No. 57 is about increasing awareness of the carrier test and offering this standard for IVF treatments. I would also advise against this motion because, as I have argued in the first term, I consider the medical necessity to be important. Then there is a fee in the package, not in other cases. In the motion in part No. 58 the government is invited to work together with the rheumatism field and the Health Institute to achieve a workable approach. The assessment of applications for conditional admission by the Reuma Fund and the Royal Netherlands Society for Physical Therapy by the Zorginstituut is ongoing. It therefore seems important to me to wait for them first and then to see what more is needed. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 59 is about eliminating one's own risk. This is a bit of a question about the familiar path, because we have made a clear agreement on this in the coalition agreement. I'm dissuading the motion. I have just lost sight of whether Mr De Jonge has taken up the motion on item No. 60, it's about getting an overhead standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u267	Yeah, he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u268	Good. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 69. It invites the government to ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the ACM to investigate the purchasing and market power. In the first term, I mentioned the KPMG report with an analysis. I see this as a follow-up to that analysis. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 70 it is noted that the US Food and Drug Administration is also looking at accelerated admission and that we should also look at it. This is entirely in line with policy. I believe that this has also been seen by everyone, not only here but also in the previous debate. So, as far as I am concerned, this motion could be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u269	Aukje de Vries/Van den Berg motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 72 is about municipal policies. I agree with the importance of cooperation between municipalities and insurers and the role that municipal policies can play in this respect. As far as I'm concerned, judge Chamber, Chairman. The motion in part No. 73 is about not paying care contributions. It invites the government to examine the current regime for undesirable effects and possible improvements, including the option of outflow from the regime for people under control. I thought I indicated in the debate in the first term that I would like to look at this. I repeat that. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 76 calls on the Government to inform the Chamber periodically after each transition season about the progress and development of achieving greater transparency and standardisation. That's what I'm gonna do. I think I have also tried to see that there is broad support for this in the Chamber. So this motion could also be taken over as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u271	The motion-Van den Berg c.s. (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u272	The motion in part No. 77 concerns the assessment of the risk balance. It invites the government to carry out research into whether the current system is still adequate and appropriate, given that part of the long-term care has been brought under the Zvw and to involve foreign researchers in this research. There is a pretty good system of Dutch experts who assess this risk settlement every year. That's a valuable tool. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is a bit of a question of involving foreign researchers. I know that the scientists involved in this Dutch system are in an international network. They're also making a report. I am happy to send that, but I find it difficult to include people from other countries in the investigation of the Dutch system of risk settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u273	The Minister shouldn't look too broad. We are concerned that one or two researchers can take a look out of the box from abroad before a study is started here in the Netherlands. It is therefore not a question of launching a very large-scale study involving all kinds of foreign researchers. In particular, it's about having a look out of the box.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u274	Then I'll be a little careful. Who are these foreign researchers and what is their mission? If that's part of that network, that's fine with me. I would also very much like to present the Dutch results that we have presented annually to another party. I would like to be prepared, but not in a mandatory way, because the rhythm of the risk settlement must be annual. We think that's important. I don't want to lose that pace by adding an extra link.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u275	It is absolutely not intended to be delayed or to have an additional link in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u276	Then we'll look for a practical way of working and I'll leave the motion judgment Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 78, about businessmanship. It calls on a committee of experts to advise on the redesign of quality records of the whole care in relation to costs and results, based on "one-time recording, multiple use." I am not in favour of centralising all quality records, whatever that may be. We need to know what everyone's doing, and that's what the Healthcare Institute is doing for us. The principle of "single recording, multiple use" is already the standard procedure in programme registration. This refers to the working methods of the Information Board, which we discussed in the first period. We have offered to first provide further information in the form of, for example, a technical briefing on the operation and objectives of such an Information Board. I'd like to suggest that we hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u277	Hold on is fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u278	At the request of Mrs Van den Berg, I propose her motion (34775-XVI, No. 78). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u279	Mr President, I shall now come to the motion for a resolution on item No. 80. It invites the government to investigate whether the difference in the own contribution arrangements and the content of care prevents it from moving from the WMO/Zvw system to the Wlz and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess. I think that's a good idea. As far as I'm concerned, take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u280	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 80? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u281	Mr President, I shall now come to the motion for a resolution on item No. 82. It calls on the government "to exempt the ovary, the public contribution to labour cost development, from the main agreements." This motion assumes that discussions on the main agreements will cover the size of the oval or oval systems. That's not true. In addition, as I said in the first period, it is up to employers and employees to make the collective agreements. They can use the oval space. So that's not my decision. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u282	Short response, Mrs. Kooiman, no discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u283	The Minister can talk about it if he chooses to make it part of the main agreements and says: we leave the oval space untouched.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u284	I don't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u285	Okay, go on. So the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u286	Dissuade. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 83: calls on the government to give the ACM the opportunity to weigh up the support of the local population and local politics. In the care-specific merger test, the NZa is already testing whether stakeholders are involved in stakeholder considerations. So that can also be local politics and/or the population. That doesn't always happen, I say right away. It seems to me to be a good idea to continue with the existing procedure, and I do not think it is appropriate to change the way in which it is done. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u287	This is a recommendation from the Authority Consumer & Market itself. They themselves indicate that they need this. I also wrote it down as such in the operative part. It would therefore be very strange if the Minister now said 'well, I'm not going to', because they themselves indicated that they would like to do so and that they could not do enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u288	Nevertheless, I advise against the motion. I want to check that out myself first, and I want to learn better how that works at the NZa. If anything needs to be added, I'll come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u289	I don't think you're gonna change the mind of the Minister with an interruption, but you can try, Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u290	I would like to give the Minister some time to study that research and to consult with the NZa. I could possibly hold the motion, but I would like to know when he will have more clarity and when he will be able to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u291	From the corner of the NZa I have not heard any complaints about the current working method, so I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u292	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u293	I'm coming to the Kooiman c.s. motion. in piece No. 84. It calls on the government to develop an instrument to force health insurers to buy more care if necessary to combat undesirable under-spending. I'm deceiving that motion. It is not the case that VWS provides the budget and that insurers have to spend it on purchase. The suggestion contained in this motion is therefore not mine. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 84. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Kooiman/Arises on part No. 85. The first words of that motion are: noting that health insurance companies have raised EUR 1 billion." The operative part then states: "Asks the government to force health insurers to use this money to substantially reduce premiums." In the first period, I have already indicated in detail that I think that is really unwise. Healthcare insurers are financial institutions and these institutions must be sound. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion Dijkstra/Ellemeet in part No. 90 is about abortion care. The operative part of that motion is that the government should, as long as the national network is under pressure, establish a temporary facility where women can find out where they can go as close as possible." I have already said it in the first term: there is quite good contact between the various abortion care clinics. They have up-to-date websites, but they also have many practical contacts with each other. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 90, that's why. The motion Dijkstra/Dik-Faber in part No. 91 is about mental care. The operative part of that motion is: invites the government, in consultation with mental caregivers, general practitioners and health insurers, to examine the benefits of mental care and to examine whether mental care can be given a more structural place within the first line. As far as I'm concerned, there's a bit of a double question in this motion. If I may explain to her that we first increase awareness of this subject, actively, also from my role, it is not yet about getting that structural place; it is first about increasing awareness, then I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u294	I realize there are two questions or assignments in there, and one depends on the other. So let's start with the first one. I assume that the following can then be looked at if we know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u295	As has already been said, I shall leave this motion to the House. The Dijksma c.s. motion in piece No. 93 is about banning clone policies. I thought I had already said in the first term that a ban would go too far at present. So I think it is premature to do a piece now to show how clone policies can be banned. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 93 therefore. I'm coming to the Dijksma c.s. motion. in piece No. 94. That motion is about the general practitioners. Its operative part is: calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 March 2018 how much money will be made available to reduce the workload, the distribution used and what this means in concrete terms for the workload of general practitioners in disadvantaged areas. It is the parties that agree on this in the region. It's not like we're adding that up or anything like that. We are also not going to have additional records or registration here. The subject as such, the workload in disadvantaged neighbourhoods and evening and night shifts, will be included in the general agreement on general care and health care. But the request for information on making money available before 1 March 2018 goes too far. I advise against this motion. I'm coming to the Dijksma c.s. motion. in piece No. 95, in which the government is asked to provide insight into the financing of the subscription rate in the Wmo. As discussed in the first term, I will work out the proposal in consultation with the municipalities and the CAK, including funding. Oh, I can see from signals to my right that this motion has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u296	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u297	That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. Better double than not. Thank you, colleague! Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get to the Dik-Faber motion on piece number. 98, which calls on the government to include in a new broad agreement on general practitioners' care guarantees that national agreements on tackling bottlenecks will actually be translated into local contracts between health insurers and general practitioners. This is, I thought, even literally the intention I have. As far as I am concerned, this motion could be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u298	Does anyone object to taking over the Dik-Faber motion in part No. 98? It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u299	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 106 which calls on the government to encourage health insurers to place the medication assessment beyond their own risk. I have a bit of a double answer. I would like to talk to the insurance companies, but I would like to let them know that they decide whether they are actually going to do it. So that's different than stimulating. I want to raise the subject with them, but I don't want to encourage it. I think they should make their own choice. Since the word "stimulant" is in the operative part, I'm inclined to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mrs Sazias, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u301	I do not understand why the Minister would not want to encourage this, while this could lead to a huge gain in health, but also to savings. What is the objection to encouraging insurers? It doesn't say "force."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u302	The bottomline is that the health insurance companies have to make their own assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u303	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u304	Then the motion-Sazias/Ellemeet in part No. 107, which concerns a concrete plan of action on paid medical specialists. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. It is not just a question of paid employment, but it can also be done through the participation model of the medical specialists to better involve them. There's an arrangement. I have already said that I want to take the subject into account in the main agreements. I'm not in favour of a plan of action next to it. I come to the last motion: the Van der Staaij motion c.s. in piece No. 109. It invites the government to further standardise procurement, quality and invoicing conditions in order to reduce administrative burdens, in consultation with (representatives of) health insurers. I would like to take this point into account in the exercise of reducing administrative burdens. I must say, however, that it is about the conditions in so far as they are not competitive, not about the content of procurement and quality. It's about the administrative side of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u305	The verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u306	My judgment is "judge chamber." Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. I have two further amendments, but I see Mrs Ellemeet at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u307	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u308	I'd like to return to the motion on part number one. 107, which is about a concrete plan of action to bring more medical specialists into employment. In my opinion, the coalition agreement states that it has not succeeded in the past cabinet period, or that the results have been disappointing. So it is important to make more work of it. That is the intention of this motion. We will have to do more than we did in the previous period, so my question is to come up with a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u309	I do not propose to make this a separate plan, but I would like to take this issue into account in the main agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u310	Please continue. No, Mrs. Kooiman. You're not under the motion. I'm not gonna let anyone who didn't sign with you, because otherwise... Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u311	Mr. Chairman. I have two further amendments. One is the Dik-Faber amendment to point No. 54, that's about the sneak sugar. It calls for the development of a directive on this issue. In general, we maintain that the development of a directive is a matter for the profession, but because it is a multidisciplinary directive, it is difficult. In that light, I do sympathise with this amendment and leave it to the Chamber to decide. Finally, there is an amendment to item No. 8 which was submitted on 25 September 2017. That's about lowering one's own risk. In view of what I said earlier, the coalition agreement states that we do not interfere with our own risk, so I would advise against this amendment. Mr President, I do not have a Bible text for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u312	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u313	I hope I've answered everything. Thank you very much. Thank you for all the people who have worked so hard on official preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u314	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to give the floor to the Minister of VWS for commenting on Mr Slootweg's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'm sorry I just forgot this one. It was Mr Slootweg's motion and Mrs Dik-Faber's motion for a resolution which deals with the accident, in part No. 80.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u316	It's taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u317	By whom, then? Not because of me, but I could have taken over this one very well. I would be very happy to make that assessment. Judgment Room might as well. I can live fine with this motion; it's good to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u318	She was taken over by your colleague Bruins, Minister of Medical Care, at 6:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u319	It's special, but it's beautiful. We'll help each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u320	Yeah, things are going really well between you guys. Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u321	It is generally very good, but sometimes I feel that the portfolio distribution is not quite clear yet. Perhaps you could check afterwards which motions were on the lists of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u322	I have that impression, too. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it is correct, there is still one amendment and nine motions without comments; otherwise the puzzle is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u324	We'll keep an eye on it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u325	Mr. Chairman. An amendment has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman under number 53 to enable the Malnutrition Steering Group to continue its activities. The cabinet thinks that's a good idea. We can live with that. It is up to us to judge the Chamber. Then the motion-Agema in part No. 68, which calls for a further extension of the backpay scheme. The scheme was originally intended for one year in principle, but was extended in 2017. The extension in 2017 led to a single additional commitment, based on an application made in January of that year. The assessment of the Indian Platform is that once again extending leads to unjustified expectations. That weighs a lot for me. I therefore see no reason to renew the scheme. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u326	A brief comment, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u327	The Indian Platform no longer exists. It has been replaced by the Indian Platform 2.0. That has a completely different view of the situation from the Secretary of State. My request is that instead of the application for applications to be stopped acutely from 1 January, it should continue until January. I will propose next week at the procedural meeting to do the evaluation of the back pay issue. The Indian Platform 2.0 would love that very much. That's for the replacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u328	I have the comment to make on behalf of the cabinet and I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u329	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u330	In the motion in part No. 75 by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dijkstra, the government is invited not only to invest in prevention and support in unintended pregnancies, but also to pay attention to promoting positive sexual health. I share Mrs Ellemeet's view that cross-border behaviour, like unintended pregnancies, is part of a broader view of positive sexual health. I can live fine with this motion. I see her as a policy support. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I'm gonna jump to the motion at piece number one. 99 on child marketing, something Mrs Arissen wants to ban. This is a very appealing theme. The rulers have been watching deliciously all the presents we're about to distribute. I understand Mrs Arissen's impatience. Nevertheless, I would like to ask her to be patient, because the agreements made are now being evaluated. This evaluation will be carried out in January. Then we come with a reaction. I would therefore ask the author, Mrs Arissen, to wait. We're coming up with a reaction. If she doesn't want to, I'd like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u331	Mrs. Arissen, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u332	I'm very glad the Secretary of State understands our impatience. As he intends to send the inquiry to the Chamber in January, I would like to continue the motion until then. I'd like to tell him that the time of no-binding agreements is now really over. The Party for Animals wants regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u333	Thank you, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u334	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u335	At the request of Mrs Arissen, I propose her motion (34775-XVI, No. 99). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u336	The impatience is completely clear. The next motion, Mrs Arissen's motion to item No. 100, calls on the government not to include companies in the negotiations on the prevention agreement if they make money selling unhealthy products. I don't feel that way at home. We certainly want to involve industry in sustainable prevention outcomes. Businesses can also be asked to make an innovative contribution. As far as I am concerned, there can be absolutely no question of this good grace; I have already said that in my term. All in all, it is clear that I am moving the motion in part No. 100 betrayals. In the motion in part No. 101 the government is invited to proactively engage in green play facilities in the neighbourhood. Do I hear you? 100" say, Mr. Chairman? Excuse me. I've got no. 100" said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u337	No, no, you were right. I didn't hear it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u338	For the sake of clarity, playing facilities are primarily the responsibility of municipalities. Mrs Arissen knows that, too. I think it is an important point. I will also draw attention to the physical environment in relation to a healthy lifestyle. I can imagine that this issue will certainly be given a place in the context of the prevention agreement, because local authorities were invited to the debate on the prevention agreement. In that context, I would like to inform the Chamber about how we involve the physical environment in our prevention policy. In that light, I would advise against the motion. In the Arissen motion in part No. 102 The government is invited to launch an information campaign on less meat for better health. The nutrition information takes place through the Food Centre. I don't feel that much about targeting a separate campaign on one kind of food. What I do want to do is talk to the Food Centre about whether they think it is a good idea to pay particular attention to the subject of meat. I believe that I am going to go a long way towards meeting Mrs Arissen. I want to have that conversation, and I want to give a feedback on that too. I would ask Mrs Arissen to hold her motion until then. If she says "no, she'll be voting now," I'd advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u339	Mrs. Arissen, very briefly. What are you gonna do? What's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u340	This isn't exactly a motion that the Party for Animals wants to hold. We do appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State wants to talk to the Food Centre to give this type of topic more attention in a broader campaign, but given the staggering amount of research on how harmful meat is for public health...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u341	Clear. It's obvious, Mrs. Arissen. You're not holding your motion. The Secretary of State's verdict is "dissuade," so we're going to vote on it. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u342	In the motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 104 the government is invited to examine with relevant parties how to improve the approach to malnutrition in healthcare. That is an important issue and it is good to look at it widely, but I would like to ensure that there is a build-up of requirements in addition to existing quality frameworks. So if we had to do something with it, it would have to be within an existing quality framework. With that judgment, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. I have two more motions to make. In the motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 105 calls for prevention of falls in older people to be a priority within the national prevention agreement. I already said something about that in my first term. Fall prevention is an important issue, but I do not want to focus too much on the issue of which themes will be the focus of a prevention agreement, if we are going to call things 'peer point' at all. I'll admit I want to pay a lot of attention to fall prevention. Mrs Sazias has that promise. So I admit that I will pay attention to that, but I do not know whether that is going to get a place in the prevention agreement or whether I am going to do it out there. I'd like some room for that. Against this background, I would like to discourage the motion, but I am very sympathetic to the subject. Only if it is prescribed that it should be a spearhead in the prevention agreement will that go a step too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u343	If we turn the word "speech point" into "important point," do you have any confidence in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u344	In any case, I have confidence in the steps that we are going to take in the context of fall prevention. As far as I am concerned, this does not change very much, because then you will put me in a somewhat difficult position with regard to all those parties with whom I am talking to see what exactly we are going to put into this prevention agreement. It may be that the parties say: we are going to make a lot of agreements in the context of the prevention agreement, but please arrange it by a different route, otherwise we are going to lift ourselves up in that agreement. I don't know, but I'd like to have my hands free. I have already said in my first term that I will, of course, refer what we are going to discuss in the prevention agreement to the Chamber; at least that is what I am going to talk to you about. I'll inform you about that. I hope you are confident that it will get a good place, but I think it goes too far to say that it should be given an important place in the prevention agreement anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u345	Well, Mr President, we do think that is important, because it causes more deaths than traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u346	It's obvious. That's why you filed the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u347	The last motion I am going to comment on is that in part No. 110, by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dijksma. It calls on the government to bring forward a legislative proposal for the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol. In recent weeks, Parliament's answers to questions on this matter have been sent to the Chamber. In that I informed the Chamber that a note on alcohol policy will follow around the summer of 2018. I would like to understand the idea that, in this context, we want to address a wide range of measures, including price measures. In that light, I would ask Mr Van der Staaij to hold his motion. Otherwise, if he says that the motion should be put to the vote now, I would advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u348	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Dijksma. We are fine with holding the motion, if that means that this option is really being looked at seriously. If the Secretary of State says "no matter what happens, we don't want to do this, but then we say it later," then we might as well make the political choice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u349	That's a fair question. In replying to the parliamentary questions I said that I would also like to look at the evaluation of practice in Scotland. That was the direct cause. The question is whether we know much more about this in July, but I will certainly take the option seriously in that note. Of course, the Chamber will then agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u350	Thank you. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u351	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (34775-XVI, No. 110). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u352	I think we've had it all. I would like to join those colleagues who have expressed their gratitude to the official organisation in this place. It was, as far as I'm concerned, a party to experience that, with so many experts and involved people who have worked through the night to provide the Chamber with good answers and to support us. We have yet to agree on a division of roles, but let's just say that next time I'll come up with a Bible text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u353	Then that's a deal too. I would like to thank the directors very much for their answers. I did an experiment with interruptions today. I think I did. I see nodding in agreement, no matter how difficult that may be for some people. I would also like to thank the MPs, the clerks and the people who have worked on the VWS budget very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-6.u354	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. We are going to vote on the budget and the amendments next Thursday.
