ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. "Netherlands narcostat'. Not a fine headline on the last Easter weekend. Europol paints an almost embarrassing picture of pill-drivers and powder-stampers, we read. In addition to the weed barn, the Netherlands has now become the hard drug producer and the trader in the world. That takes disruptive forms. Our harbour seems as leaky as a basket, but also along other roads the drugs prepared here find their customers, for example by mail. The tide must be reversed. This requires, first of all, sufficient capacity in the police and the judiciary, for example, to carry out large-scale criminal investigations. In this case, let's not disturb a brooding chicken. Well, we need to know now if they're up to it. That is the first question to the Minister. Professor Fijnaut is surprised that the Netherlands produces so much. He seems to have found an explanation for this, namely in the low sentences. As a result, criminal action is not sufficiently disruptive, let alone paralyzed, to the criminal industry, says Fijnaut. On this point, too, I would like a response: are our penalties indeed much lower than those in the countries around us? Of course criminal law can never be the only answer, it also requires creative actions, in which police and prosecutors cooperate with local authorities and the Tax Administration. Think about the task force in Brabant. Touch criminals where it hurts: in their possessions and in their wallet. That's where trouble comes in. We hear that municipalities are no longer allowed to share their information. That's what's going on in Tilburg. Are criminals gonna be the laughing third of our privacy protection? The Brabant mayors have provided a number of examples of bottlenecks: good preliminary work for criminal investigations. Can the Minister indicate whether this will be put into effect and what the outcome will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg refers to Europol's report on the state of large-scale crime in Europe. That report indeed presents an image that plays a central role in the Netherlands in the field of drug trafficking and drug-related crime. Unfortunately, that is an inevitable downside to being a country with an excellent infrastructure. Think of our good ports, airports and roads. Moreover, the population speaks its languages. The legal trade uses this, but unfortunately also the illegal trade. Europol's report has been prepared with the help of the Netherlands and will serve as a basis for the priorities that Europol will pursue in the coming years. As a result, Mrs Van Toorenburg asks whether there is at present sufficient capacity to deal with organised crime and drug trafficking. As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, extra money has been allocated in the budget to address this problem. Extra money has been allocated specifically for the problems in Limburg, Brabant and Zeeland, extra money has been allocated for the detective capacity and prosecution and extra money has been allocated for regional cooperation between municipalities, detection, police and other services in the Regional Information and Expertise Centres. Of course, every minister is happy with more money, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly pointed out, is that now for the people sitting around the negotiating table, but at the moment I can get out of my way with the extra money that is available. Mrs Van Toorenburg then asked about the penalty in the Netherlands. I, too, have read Mr Fijnaut's statement. I'm always very interested in his research. I don't have an investigation that I can use as a basis to endorse or deny his ruling. I simply do not have a comparative study of the penalties actually imposed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how the integrated approach would take shape. I agree with her that it has to come from that in the end. Criminal law is crucial, but it can never be enough. It is indeed important to be active from the source. We're literal. This week it was announced that the Dutch frigate Sr. Ms. Worf, I'm sorry. Van Amstel on the Antilles, on the supply route, has intercepted two drug shipments. We are active in ports and airports. We work well with the municipalities. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether municipalities have sufficient opportunities for information sharing. As I mentioned earlier in the Chamber, I am also, on the basis of the requests of the Brabant mayors, a list of the types of information they wish to share in the context of tackling this crime and for which they are currently finding obstacles. I have indicated that at the moment I cannot present any major legislation to the Chamber, but I would be happy to share that list with the Chamber as soon as it is available. That'll be before the summer. I also do this in cooperation with the Brabant mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	I have listened carefully to the Minister's answers and I thank him for that. I understand that a lot of things are about money. The mayor of Heusden said today: it is a major European problem; is there any possibility of getting money from Europe for that? I shall now put this question straight to the Minister. We have indicated that we want money that is being taken back to society, also in order to combat crime better. The Minister would discuss this with the Public Prosecutor's Office and possibly with the mayors. Has that conversation taken place by now? It is a good thing that the Minister highlights the bottlenecks, as he said earlier. My question focuses on the whole process that is now under way with regard to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We're in the process of recalibrateing it. From this point of view, is the measures that we are considering together also being considered? Is it also being considered, for example, whether these measures are in line with the approach needed in the south of the country? As Professor Fijnaut and the Minister have pointed out, much is coming this way because we have good infrastructure, via the Internet but certainly also at the post office. Then, the very simple proposal is made to use drug dogs when delivering packages. Are there any options for that? Can the Minister also comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	I shall begin with the question of European funds. Europol's report will be discussed in the forthcoming European Council. The JHA Council shall establish the priorities. If there's any possibility of linking money to that, I'll be happy to use it. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about national resources. She asked whether it would be possible to start working with a packing fund, where the proceeds from the take-away would be used again for the fight against crime. I told the Chamber earlier that I did research on this in cooperation with my colleague in the finance department. Unfortunately, that study initially showed that the revenues were not higher than the costs. We didn't settle for that. Therefore, let us now do an additional study to see if it is possible to make a final financial record of that. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the use of dogs specifically for parcel services. She undoubtedly knows that our services use dogs in drug control, including at Schiphol. I did not receive this request from parcel services, which are, by the way, co-operated with the police and the judicial authorities. If we wanted to do that, then of course we will have both the practical aspects of this distribution process. As the legal aspects, what is the relationship with the letter secret? We have to look at this, but at the moment the request is simply not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mrs Van Toorenburg, last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	We're still getting some messages from the Secretary of State. I think it is important to hear back if there is any possibility of getting money out of Europe. As far as the legal equation is concerned, the Minister said that he did not know if our sentences were lower, but the question is, of course, whether he can have that investigated. Finally, the drug dogs. I remember from my studies that was really in the last century! That we were already having discussions about the large amount of drugs in the mail. Maybe the Minister could do a little more outreach and go to the mailbox companies to see if the use of drug dogs is a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	A brief response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	I would be happy to inform the Chamber of both European money and available information on penalties in different countries. The period that has passed since Mrs Van Toorenburg's graduation and our presence here seems not to be devoted to training dogs for the post, but I am willing to discuss the practical consequences. We need to get an idea of this before we can make a decision on it at all. I will inform the Chamber on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	These are extremely worrying reports from Mr Fijnaut, who talks about a narco state, about the Colombia of Europe. Then he's talking about the Netherlands. That's very worrying. Previously, Mr Tops and Mr Tromp's book "The Back of the Netherlands" has been published, which writes about undermining local government, in which mayors do not always dare to put their hands in the fire for aldermen or councilmen. That is very threatening, not only in the south of the Netherlands, because the nuisance and the threat of undermining are on the rise, for example in Gelderland. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with Gelderland what assistance is needed there, where we have come along earlier in Brabant, Zeeland and Limburg? Does Gelderland need assistance in the fight against undermining, which is so vital and crucial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	I agree with Mr Segers that tackling organised crime is incredibly important. That is why we offer support throughout the country, including in the form of money for the Regional Information and Expertise Centres. I also consult with all regional corps managers in a permanent consultation platform, in which organised crime and the issue of information sharing are on the agenda. The Gelderse corps managers are also present. I believe that the consultation which Mr Segers is referring to is guaranteed along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	When it comes to the subject of undermining crime, you can talk about a multitude of subjects. We will have to do so at a later date. I now confine myself to one very specific issue, as I have one question to ask. A few weeks ago, I spoke to the people who are getting their feet in the clay every day and who are working in such a task force, such as the police and the IRS. They think every day about how they catch the criminals. When I spoke to them, they asked me to present the following to the Minister. Crime is international and crosses our own border. Then it is extremely important to be able to rely on the speed and cooperation of the foreign authorities. In particular, it seems that it can go faster in Spain. That could mean making choices that would lead to criminals hiding there not getting caught. Can the Minister look into this and, if necessary, call his colleague in Madrid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Van Oosten specifically asks for cooperation with Spain, one of the countries mentioned in the Europol report. Mr Van Oosten can imagine that I do have to dive in to see if there are any specific barriers. I'll let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	In Europe, 5,000 criminal organisations are active in this area, with an annual turnover of EUR 24 billion. The mayors are asking for a $150 million battlehouse. Can the Minister promise that he can do something more than an additional investigation to get the budget final with Finance and his ministry? These mayors have been alone with this call for a long time. Can the Minister give them something more than just a closer investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Helder is asking for money at a time in the parliamentary year when she knows what my answer is. In fact, I have been given extra money in the budget. I have also indicated to Mrs Van Toorenburg the amounts specifically devoted to drug crime and organised crime. However, extra money can only be dealt with in a budget and is now a subject at the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, that's disappointing for the mayors in question, but we're remembering this. We don't park it; we definitely remember it. I have one more question: are the penalties lower? The Minister says he will have the penalty examined, because he does not have a competition available. However, Professor Fijnaut does not say this for nothing. So my conclusion on behalf of my group is that these penalties are really lower. Can the Minister promise that there will be a comparative report on the penalties of the countries by the end of this year at the latest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have already indicated to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I will see how we can make that comparison. I think it is very important that this is a good comparison. I cannot now judge whether it will be possible to make a good comparison before the end of this year, but I indicated that I would like to have that information myself and would also like to share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Again, this new research shows that the Netherlands is high on the wrong list, namely the production and transit of drugs. My question to the Minister is: what measures are currently under way, does he really expect them to be able to help? What measures does he expect them to be really a convincing step in the right direction, i.e. off that list? Does he also want to address the growing market online in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	It's very restless in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr Van der Staaij is actually asking for two things: what measures do I expect them to work and whether we can get off the list? I will start with the latter: I indicated, in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg, that a country with a very good infrastructure for legal trade, with ports, airports, roads and a well-educated population, almost inevitably also becomes the route for illegal trade. They often literally lift in containers, ships, aircraft and with travellers. However, I very much share Mr Van der Staaij's ambition to suppress this terrible phenomenon as much as possible. All the experts agree that there are a number of measures to be taken. You need to take action at the source. I mentioned for a reason the action of our Navy in the Antilles, because South America is the source of cocaine. This involves controls in ports and airports. It also means tackling the infrastructure, which is often locally rooted. For that, you need cooperation from the city, the tax authorities, the police and the public prosecutor. That's why we support them, too. We see that awareness is much greater than it was a few years ago. In that sense, there is light. We are also getting the first signals that part of this crime is crossing the border. It must of course be dealt with there as well. The fact that so much of this is now in the picture, for example, I am also thinking of the motor gangs, which are being tackled also has to do with the extra effort. That is no reason to sit back, but this does mean that we see the first results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	The Netherlands is threatened with disruption, there is a tornado of cocaine and all sails need to be rebuilt. That's why the CDA is asking acute questions here. The CDA wants more police, more law enforcement and more detectives. When it comes to money, Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA says: "We cannot disturb a breeding chicken." So the CDA is asking for more people, but not more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	The question to the Minister is: why does the Minister lend himself to this political game and how is he going to explain this to the mayors who are asking for more money to prevent this threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr Van Raak describes an orderly political process as "a game." For Mr Van Raak, who, in my opinion, has even been promoted in political science, it can be no surprise... Oh, he has been promoted in philosophy, but it can be no surprise to him that after the elections a new cabinet will be formed and that in the meantime the existing cabinet will do whatever is necessary but will stick to the current budget and will not be able to make any extra money out of the pocket for any important purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u25	Now everyone is curious what you have been promoted to, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u26	Well, chairman, I can say I'm not a politician; I'm a philosopher. I find the Minister's remark very remarkable. The Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber isn't. If there are acute problems, for example if the mayors in Brabant feel threatened and say that in Brabant there is no guarantee of security, that acute measures need to be taken and that acute money needs to be invested, it is up to the House of Representatives to do so. Then it is also up to the CDA to do so. It is not up to the Minister to lend himself to party political games.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u27	That wasn't a question. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u28	One would almost think that the SP regrets that it immediately shut the door to the negotiations, but that aside. The debate is alive. While we are having a debate here, we are getting reports from the country, for example from Tholen. This shows that there are large containers in the port that are being emptied. They want to see where that container is going. It goes to a big industrial park, and then what happens? The representatives of the industrial area cannot take action, because there are no drugs left in the container.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u29	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u30	Does the Minister seriously want to look at this type of caseism to see what we can do about it so that such a drug house, which unfortunately is not a proven drug house but the container was on its way, could eventually be closed down? That's what the mayors are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mrs Van Toorenburg refers to a case currently taking place in Tholen. I'm not aware of that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u32	I must interrupt you, because it is almost impossible to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think it would be wise for me to go into that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u34	It doesn't help if you start talking louder. I'd like everyone to hang in there for a few minutes. Then we're going to vote. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-5.u35	I had already promised Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would inform her further. I will also do so on this particular case and on the underlying question of the possibility of closing down buildings.
