ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. From internal security to external security. Yesterday Omroep Brabant came up with results of his own investigation into inspection reports of the province of Brabant in 2015 and 2016. These inspection reports relate to the so-called Brzo companies, which represent major accidents. They're, like, the most dangerous companies out there. They must therefore meet very strict requirements. That's not so crazy either, because if they explode, the turnips are cooked. It's been six years since Chemie-Pack was hit on the Moerdijk by a heavy fire. There were also reasons for this which can be traced back to a safety culture that is not in order. Omroep Brabant has now concluded that in 75% of the cases where an inspection has taken place there has been at least one offence. Of course 75% is very much. One offense is another offense than the other. So in that sense, there is cause for concern. Professor Ben Ale, a great deal in the field of safety culture and security risks said: it's waiting for the next disaster. That's a very apocalyptic position, but of course it's a man who knows what he's talking about. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what she thinks of Professor Ale's statement. How does she look further at the results presented by Omroep Brabant? Is there a safety culture that is not in order? Is there perhaps an inspection that cannot deliver what we would like to see? Or are the sanctions too lenient? You can turn around and say: perhaps Brabant is very active with the inspection and you have registered so many accidents. So that's actually the mirrored story. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at this issue, because the people in Brabant and elsewhere in the country are probably worried about this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Smaling for these questions. I can very well imagine that if you take that message from Call Brabant to you, the fear beats you around the heart. However, I would like to point out here that the information contained in that message is not new. Your room knows them. They have already emerged in the State of Security, which I sent to you in the summer of last year. This showed that although there are many offences in this region, it is not necessarily the offences that fall into the most serious category, the so-called Category 1 offences. Because when it comes to the latter, the company is immediately shut down and so it should be. Yesterday there was another contact with the Central and West Brabant Environment Service and the competent authority, the well-known deputy Mr Van den Hout. This shows that in 2015 in Brabant a company was shut down five times during such a so-called Brzo inspection, and that this was due to working conditions. This has not happened at all in 2016. Companies must, of course, abide by the rules. That is why these inspections are very important, and our impression is that they are doing very well in Brabant. If you're looking, you'll find it. When you're on top of it with inspections and that's what you do in Brabant, of course, you always come across things that aren't in the end according to the rules. In Brabant, not only is a pre-announced annual audit carried out, but all companies are also visited unannounced. It is important that these inspections should also be used to improve the situation in those companies themselves. The fact that so much is encountered is not good in itself, but it is also not a good reason for the apocalyptic warning given by the professor to whom Mr Smaling refers. We're now trying to figure out the background to these violations. It's a sign to me that Brabant is on top of it, and that's exactly what I'm hoping for. Then you will find a lot and thus improve the safety culture at the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	In what I hear from the Secretary of State, I can go a long way. Nevertheless, 75%, that is three quarters of the companies, still makes at least one offense. I think that is a worrying percentage, including for the population. How do you get to about 10%? The broadcast of Omroep Brabant also includes an inspector who believes that it should be feasible to reach 10%. From 75% to 10%: then there is still a long way to go, I think. How does the Secretary of State see that? How's Brabant doing with the rest of the country? Is this province some kind of frontrunner, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	A few answers to different questions. First of all, whether there are regional differences and, if so, where this is due. We're investigating that now, and the outcome of that will be for the Chamber to belong to the next State of Security. What I can say now is that we have the impression that Brabant is doing very well. We also see more unannounced inspections being carried out there than in other regions. So it is not said that the figure that comes into the picture means that it is not doing well, because if very few companies run into the light, there may be too little inspection. How do we ensure that this number of offences is reduced, even if they are minor offences? Sometimes, for example, a radio is in a place where it shouldn't be. This means a potential danger for an employee because sparks can be released. If they come into contact with a dangerous substance, you have a problem. The number of minor offences must therefore also be reduced, and the idea is that with an active culture and a lick-on-piece policy of an inspection that is on top of it, the awareness-raising process in these companies is really starting. We're gonna have to prove it eventually in that investigation, but I think Brabant's doing well. The figure has to go down, even when it comes to minor offences, because in the end every offense is one too many, no matter how big or small it is. But in the case of major infringements, companies are simply shut down, as has also been shown. So that really is of a different order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	What struck me about the piece published by Omroep Brabant is that the environmental service, together with the inspections, also carries out those inspections unexpectedly. Not so long ago, the previous Secretary of State was very much concerned about the fact that the inspection was only able to do her job after the call had been made in advance or it was appropriate to come and do that inspection. This is a whole different sound. Is this model gonna work? That's how I ask the Secretary of State? After all, the Research Council for Security and its former chairman, Pieter van Vollenhoven, advocated a single national inspection, and we have also debated this on a number of occasions. What does the Secretary of State think of that, in the light of this investigation? The final question is whether the sanction regime is working. If I hear it correctly, this is a lot of carrots and quite little stick. Are these sanctions sufficiently stimulating for companies to put this safety culture in order faster than it seems at present?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	To start with that last point: if you commit an offence in the most serious category, as an entrepreneur, you cannot actually be hit harder than your business is shut down. Every hour this happens, it costs a lot of money. That's good, too. So I think it is very important that there is an active inspection policy, because if it is necessary and a company is shut down, it has a very great effect. In addition, there is the question of how to maintain well in practice. From my own experience, I know that inspection does not necessarily get stronger if you throw a lot of different inspections at one heap, just to put it bluntly. You know the discussion with me in my previous post on NVWA. The important thing is that you exchange the information that is needed properly in practice. In this case, for example, this happens between the FIOD and the inspection services. It's also about working together in the workplace. That happens in Brabant and in many other places. The environmental services and the labour inspectorate organize their inspections hand in hand. They may not do that literally hand in hand, but that's how it's experienced. It has to be done. That's a good model. The more unannounced inspections, the better. "Take them by surprise" is one of the best ways to put pressure on things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Finally, Mr Ronnes has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
