ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science, Section 34775-VIII. I welcome everyone in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate through another medium and, of course, also the MPs and especially the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. Today we are discussing the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Then I shall begin with Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV Group. We haven't agreed on the number of interruptions. If you're short, Mr. Van Meenen and Mr. Rog, I'm gonna take less action, but if you're too extensive with all sorts of introductions, I'm gonna limit the number of interruptions. Well, I guess I'll give that to you. I call Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it shouldn't be too much fun. Let's get started. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I would like to welcome the rulers to their first budget in this house and I hope, of course, to the last budget, as you will understand. I would have liked to have wished them much success for this coming reign, but that would be a little strange. The PVV, the second party of the country, was categorically excluded from the negotiations and they shattered the political landscape worse than ever. This resulted at the end of the story in these two ministers. One of D66 and one of the Christian Union. Ideologically, they are each other's absolute opposites. One would like nothing more than to lift the Netherlands as a sovereign nation state to accommodate it in the United States of Europe. A minister who wants to employ the education of an ideological cosmopolitan agenda of internationalisation and who believes that Dutch as a language of science and culture has actually had its longest time and prefers to switch to English. On the other hand, a minister who attaches great importance to that uniqueness of the Netherlands, that identity, that language, those traditions, and who can hardly imagine a community without inspiration. Well, Mr President, such cooperation cannot solve the real problems that education now faces. Because of the ideological repulsion they feel against each other, the ministers will not go beyond making hard agreements, in granite chiseled. And then they'll watch the store. I don't think they're capable of solving the big themes. But education deserves better, because there is indeed a crisis, even a systemic crisis. Mr. Chairman. For the PVV these are the main themes. First of all, the overshot politicisation of education. Just as we are witnessing the disaster of mass immigration from the Middle East and Africa, our identity and our Western culture are under pressure, as has never happened before. It is precisely at this time that education should maintain that uniqueness of the Dutch and Western values. But what do we see happening? Education is always at the forefront of cultural relativism, see the attack on Black Piet and the attacks of teachers and professors on political parties that do not share that political postmodern world view of the left parties. No sooner did teachers so impertinently surrender to indoctrinating students and students with their own left-wing and überliberal values. Almost daily parties are bashed on the right side of the spectrum and comparisons are made with racism, with the Nazis and fascism and Christianity is ridiculed and Islam is praised in heaven. There's hardly any elementary school that doesn't visit a mosque. Mr. Chairman. Our primary task is to pass on Dutch identity and culture to future generations in order to enable them to rise to the middle class, to emancipate, integrate and assimilate those who are left behind. Well, all of that has a higher purpose and that goal is to build a stable society with cohesion and a competent workforce that makes us competitive vis-à-vis abroad. At all these points education fails, because what do we see? Our identity is cast too gibberish, our history is considered a period of shame, our traditions are in danger. The middle class is in a tight spot and emancipation has narrowed to those oppressive gender discussions, those oppressive #MeToo discussions. The result of 40 years of expensive integration education is seen as Turks with Turkish flags occupying the Erasmus Bridge and as there are riots in Rotterdam, The Hague and Amsterdam with third generation Moroccans, who are shrouded in their national flags on the streets. Despite all the efforts, despite all the costly programmes, despite all the costly customisation to facilitate anything, 65% of asylum immigrants still depend on benefits after 15 years. The result, after 40 years of uplifting education, is a torn society, which we have to observe, with on the one hand the ordinary hardworking Dutchman and the hardworking Frisian, whose traditions are broken by cultural Marxist education, who feels like a stranger in his own country. On the other side of that gap we see a parallel society where Islam reigns, hatred for the West, inequality of women, institutionalized hatred for women, gays and unbelievers, tribal solidarity but no solidarity or hardly solidarity with the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Let's start by recognizing that failure. And let us begin by saying that our education is no longer used for any form of political activism. Education must transfer knowledge, skills, culture and identity. It needs to emancipate, it needs to elevate, it needs to learn critical thinking. But always politically-neutral. To all those teachers and teachers I would like to say: hang your own political preferences on the coat rack, along with your coat, the moment you enter the classroom. If you want to be political, go into politics, welcome, but stop indoctrinating young people who are vulnerable in their opinions. I'll wait for Mr. Kwint, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I have an enlightening question. What Frisian tradition, according to Mr Beertema, is currently under pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	I didn't talk about Frisian traditions. I talked about hard-working Dutch and hard-working Frisians who had to fight against them. Yesterday I heard 19 activists marching on buses to Friesland to torture the farmer. To spout among children their own hatred to the Netherlands, for our nice sintering Klaas tradition, which has gradually gained a political load that of course should never have gotten it. It is those nineteen people, who are charged on the shield, not so much by your party, but by all the other parties, by the media, but by the schools. That way it gets a dynamic. But the Netherlands doesn't want that, and the Frisians don't want that. Those normal hardworking Dutch and Frisians have the feeling that that tradition is being taken away from them. And that's why they're standing there doing what they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	I know the Frisians as a very proud and independent people, so I think they can have those nineteen protesters, you know. I don't think their own identity depends on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	You're missing the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes, that's right, but that could also have something to do with your wording. I think the only Frisian tradition under pressure is the Elfstedentocht. That's because of climate change, which you categorically deny, so I don't quite understand why... maybe you should get a little more concerned about it. I think Frisians have a lot more to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	Proceed, Mr. Beertema. You may respond briefly. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, this is so gratuitous, here I'm not...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Climate change... Mr. Chairman. My first question to the rulers is to respond to this. Do they see with me that education has failed in precisely these important tasks? Look at the shattered society we're seeing right now. And do they see that this impudent political bias of teachers really runs out of spigates? I would like to inform them now that I am considering a motion to establish a code of conduct for teachers, who will ensure that teachers are politically neutral, from whatever home they come. Mr President, the lack of teachers will have dramatic consequences without intervention. The profession has simply become too unattractive due to the salarying, the high workload and the infinite interference from the field. These are the main causes. They have been appointed before and they need to be addressed. We cannot, of course, separate this over-salary from the financing model of education, the lump sum. The lumpsum was a good idea at the time. It is the bag of money that the government gives to the schools to cooperate, while the government itself remains at a distance. But with its introduction, the government has set itself far too far away. As a result, the directors and employers' and employees' organisations have been given a great deal of freedom. That's getting out of hand now, we think. The education sector has lost its focus. The educational polder has exploded in dozens of domes and sectoral councils. They have also united in the dome of the domes: the Foundation of Education. In the meantime, it acts like a kind of shadow government, where the real decisions are made. We see: platforms for everything, knowledge centres, associations representing each stakeholder, sounding board groups, an Education Board, governing organisations, representatives in the profession and field of work, student and student organisations, super-administrative cooperation structures, advisory and guidance organisations, trade unions and national management bodies. And this is not an exhaustive list. Every organization I mention and found in that educational polder has a board. And a supervisory board. And an expensive place to stay. And an annual accounts. All these organisations must also consult, evaluate, write reports and investigate endlessly. It takes time and money, a lot of money. And just talk, talk, talk. Nowhere is there as much consultation as in education. All that money comes directly or indirectly through the schools from the education budget. In the meantime, teachers' salaries are so low that there is a growing shortage. A sneaking disaster begging for forceful intervention. The key question is, of course, the same question that the PVV has been asking since the beginning. I have always called for 80% of total expenditure to be earmarked for teacher salaries. For teachers teaching, by the way. I'll give that to the ministers. Teachers teaching for a class and not teachers sitting in an office. Where teachers interact with the students, and that's in the classroom, that's where education happens. That is why my second question is: How many percent of this huge 37 billion education budget is actually being spent on class teachers and how much percent are the educational polder and the rest devouring? As far as I am concerned, the only solution is for 80% to be rigorous in the primary process of teaching and then to make no concessions to the definition of primary process. The primary process is always where a teacher, a teacher, a pedagogue, and students communicate with each other. We must be rigorous in the organisations and in the rest. I am not the first to say this: the then Secretary of State for Higher Education, Mark Rutte, has come up with this idea. I stole it from him. The PVV was the first to propose that the LA scale be abolished and replaced by LB. Even the many organizations and associations within education are now advocating this. With 80% of the teacher's salary budget, we come a long way in this direction. In order to re-focus education on education, it is also necessary to identify parts of the remaining 20% when it comes to real estate. I would like to give that to the ministers. Education is not equipped to develop and exploit real estate. We have seen great disasters with that. They are also not equipped to invest savings. Education is equipped to provide education. There are too many big egos in the field of education running with it. Centralize that real estate part and that investment part. That's my advice. Let education deal with education and nothing else. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments to make on two dossiers on which the previous cabinet has shown little direction. They are two relatively simple files: the teacher register and the math test. Both are degenerate in such a fierce discourse. We all know. It really has become a trenches war that was ultimately insoluble. That's embarrassing. There is a need for a register. There's that need. That code of conduct I have for political neutrality could very well be incorporated into it, I say. But get rid of the workers' organizations. They're not supposed to be there. Solve that, Minister, quickly and smoothly with the teachers themselves, for and by the teachers. Start over. I'd like a response and I'd like a commitment. The same applies to the calculation key. It's symptomatic of the messy policy we've had. In 2010 there was a huge strong feeling, a need, felt by parents, business, follow-up education and most political parties here to improve computational skills to raise the quality of education to a higher level. Moreover, it is felt, particularly within the MBO, that calculation should count for the diploma. Delaying any longer will certainly not help the motivation of students. Can the government finally take control of these relatively simple dossiers and bring them to a successful conclusion? Do something, ministers, do something. First of all, tell me that this hard work of these two dossiers will come to a conclusion this course year that the teachers will also be able to agree with. It can't be that hard. Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment on the vve. In spite of the fact that early and pre-school education does not work, the cabinet wants to raise 170 million. As far as I am concerned, it is irresponsible to come up with so much precious educational money on policies that have no measurable effect, because that is the situation. It is a form of wishful thinking that non-Dutch-speaking pupils could overcome their language disadvantages in the vve. That language problem has to be solved at home. That's easy to do. Speak Dutch at home. Watch Dutch television programmes. Read Dutch books. Sing Dutch songs before bedtime. That's how you learn Dutch. That's how you catch up with language delays. The fact that third-generation immigrants still do not have this in their ears once again proves that education has failed on the integration agenda. Out of powerlessness and perhaps even out of misplaced sense of guilt, a can of money is being opened up, a lot of money, 170 million. As long as it cannot be demonstrated that early, early and pre-school education has tangible and measurable effects, we call on the Minister not to spend money on this but to spend 170 million on salaries in primary education. Mr. Chairman. Finally, internationalisation of our education is an active policy. Let me say: overactive policy, not so much to bring education to a higher level, but more and more as an end in itself. In fact, it seems that education in this way wants to shape a Brussels agenda, whereas we had recently agreed that education would remain a matter which would remain under the sovereignty of the countries themselves. We say that education is not a model of earning, nor is it a vehicle for promoting internationalism and Europhily. However, there is brutal and open work on further internationalisation. Who are we actually organizing education for? Are we doing this for our own students and students, or for example for half of the student population of Maastricht, which is now made up of foreigners? Internationalisation and its closely related englishing also have an undesirable segregating effect. After all, it is not for everyone. It has added value for only a limited part of the students, namely the students who end up in scientific research. But the rest of the students are just going to work around the corner, at a bank, at an insurance company or at a health centre, with Dutch people. That ensnaring of our education should also disturb Minister Slob. He was in 2005, I remind him, one of the initiators who wanted to protect our education from an excessive presence of English. He then said: "English is advancing more and more, both in business and in education. It is therefore very important that we maintain our own language. Dutch is a unique language and we can be proud of that." Minister Slob, what wise words did you say? At the time, they were completely in line with Article 7 (2) of the Higher Education Act, because that article also monitors this. It says: "The education is given and the exams are taken in Dutch." Well, we ask the government to implement the law very simply, to comply with the law and to ensure that it is respected within higher education. I would also like a response from the ministers. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna stick with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now turn to Mr Rudmer Heerema, on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin this budget debate with a personal note. In the last few months, although I was not in the Chamber, I have been very intensively involved in education. I had to pick out a school for my little girl Bente, who is now three and a half years old. A very important moment, because education is the key through which you learn to develop, it leads to a follow-up study and ultimately offers opportunities for a job. It gives you the independence to participate in our society and make something of your life. Mr. Chairman. I handled this very structuredly for my daughter Bente, even if I say so myself. I figured out which schools were in the Alkmaar area, read all the school plans, made a selection and eventually visited seven schools. All to find the most appropriate school for my daughter, and after this exercise, it worked well. Mr. Chairman. I will tell you quite frankly: I have always had the dream of getting to work in the Lower House with education. I did the Academy of Physical Education, I taught for a short time at a primary school in Heerhugowaard, three years in secondary school on a muscle-white urban gymnasium and eight years in a public school with a challenging VMBO department. In all these years I have had the opportunity to teach fantastic classes, and I will of course take those experiences with me as educational spokesperson, such as Mr Futselaar, Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Beertema and, of course, the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education himself. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, I am honoured to be able to work on this wonderful portfolio. I look forward to working with colleagues and the field. I have five cups in my speech, the first of which is 'talents in education'. Because looking for a school for my daughter immediately struck me that very similar schools, with similar students in similar neighbourhoods, had completely different educational outcomes. Not only do I notice that, but the Education Inspectorate did so last spring. Fortunately, our education has a great diversity. But that should not mean that there are such great differences in quality. For the VVD, each school should strive for the judgment "good" and not be satisfied with the heels on the ditch with a sufficient inspection. The new inspection monitoring should reduce administrative burdens, but should also encourage schools to make good judgements. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this point. The VVD not only wants schools to get the best out of themselves, but also that students get that recognition. The right to tailor-made work and the tailor-made diploma are two fine examples of this from the coalition agreement. When can the Chamber expect an outcome of this? And another measure I want to highlight is the investment of 15 million for talented students. This is intended, among other things, for high-end education. But there are more young people who are talented. We are very good in the Netherlands: good in sport, in dance, in culture, in music. We have many talented, young entrepreneurs and even unlikely many top international models. All these talents must combine education and talent in the scarce time they have. We have the LOOT scheme for a limited number of schools, there is a DAMU scheme for Dance and Music for a little less schools, and the Secondary Education Act gives a few possibilities if you are a special talent and need some space. But the rigid regulations, compulsory education time and long travel distances make it really more difficult for exceptional talents in our society. They often make it to the top despite the rules on education, and not because of those rules. The VVD wants that to change. The VVD wants as many top talents as possible to benefit from the knowledge and expertise to be supported. Not in a few specialized schools, but in many more places. I would like to ask the Minister to find out how we can better support this particular group of top talents, which we should be proud of. This policy is old, does not match the ambitions of the Netherlands, and with all the changes that are coming, this policy must also be improved and strengthened. Can the Minister come to the Chamber with a proposal on this? In addition, the action plan is running out of top talents and I would like to ask the Minister what the follow-up will be like. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the funding, the lump sum and the movement education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	I hear a wonderful speech from the VVD about top talents. Of course, we need to ensure that top talents in education also move forward and that there are good arrangements for that. However, there are also pupils, children, young people, who can come less well. For example, we also have the appropriate education Act, where not everything is running smoothly. I would like to ask the VVD: will you also pay extra attention in the coming years to these students, who are less likely to come along?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	The bottom of the education field needs extra attention, with appropriate education, but my experience is that that attention is really out of proportion to the attention paid to top talents. For years we have paid far too little attention to the top talents in education. That's the point I want to make right now. For years now we have been seeing the group that has to come through the education system with appropriate education, while the group of top talents with everything they can often get stuck in education. Now let's pay extra attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for your response. I find it somewhat disappointing, because I know that very much attention has been paid to top talents in recent years, and that the children who are less well off receive far too little attention. Too bad that will not be taken by the VVD in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	Maybe there's something else I can explain. I am not so much concerned with talents in education, which we have indeed paid a great deal of attention to in recent years, but especially with talents that have a talent outside of education and that have to be combined with education itself. That is where the bottleneck lies and we need to pay more attention, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the funding, the lump sum and the movement education. We are in favour of the lumpsum. After all, schools can choose for themselves how to use the money in order to achieve better education. It also fits with the coalition agreement that wants to give room and confidence to education. However, with space and trust comes responsibility in one breath as well. Mr President, let me be clear about this right away. The VVD Group does not want to debate the use of every euro in square millimetres, but we do want to agree more on the expected results, and there must also be consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm curious as to what these appointments should be, but we'll be hearing that in a moment, I suppose. But that confidence that the VVD places in that world of directors is constantly being ashamed, isn't it? Year in, year out, we've had miserable property, we've had diploma frauds, we've had totally derailed drivers who went their divine ways, while the ministers and we barely have any influence on that, because we're at a distance because of that lump sum cost. There's nothing more we can do. Even the ministers can't do anything. We do think we're very important here, but we're not. Those are the PO Council and the MBO Council, and you name them all, and the Education Foundation. Are you so happy as a VVD that you say: let it be divine, we will sit back and we will make some arrangements and we will evaluate it again in four years' time? Then it's gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think that the humility that Mr Beertema places here is not really a big deal, because there is a lot of things going on in education and there is not the right attitude to be working as a Member of Parliament. We are in favour of the lump sum regulation, because we believe that schools at local level are best placed to take the decision. We've seen things go wrong. I'll come up with an example later where I'm really disappointed. I do not think that the solution would be to turn the lump sum system upside down, to influence everything and, in fact, to make agreements on that 20% in the 80-20 ratio. We need to make sure that we lead schools in the right direction with agreements at the administrative level. There must be consequences to these agreements. That is far too little happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	There was one moment when we could have shaped those consequences. That was when ROC Leiden was dishonorably helped to the gallemies and we were about to declare the place bankrupt. We said at the time and your party said: do so, because that sends the signal to the world of directors 'to this point and no further'. But that didn't happen, because they're all here and they were all fine with it. That signal that came then, that I give to the VVD now, the drivers have picked up very well: we can just keep doing what we want, because that whole House of Representatives is not..., is nothing. That is the consequence of your weak agreements, because that is what I am saying: nothing is going to happen to them. This is extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think the PVV and the VVD were the same. We certainly were on the same side as regards ROC Leiden. I'm not much of a quitter. We're just gonna try to make those arrangements with the field in the next few years, but there are consequences to that. It's gonna be a bump and a bump, it's gonna be a bump and a bump, but we're gonna take steps to get a grip on that lump sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Who do you do that for? Why do you depend so much on this way of financing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	You mean the lump sum arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	We believe that at the moment when schools have to be checked every square millimetre for the resources they have spent, you are setting up a system that we are not in favour of. We believe that we want to give the freedom of education to work with these resources and to make the best choices at local level. Do they put that money in better teachers or put it in other systems, in smaller classes? That's their choice. I started by saying that I am so surprised that similar schools in similar neighbourhoods with similar students have such different results. That is good on the one hand, because that brings diversity into education, but on the other hand it is striking that schools can have very different outcomes using the same means. I think it is good that schools can do that, so they can make the right decisions and they make good use of the freedom they have. However, you will have to make arrangements with the schools that are less capable of doing so, in order to be able to control the lumpsum in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	This is a caricature the VVD is now making. No one is suggesting that the receipts for the erasers and pencils should be checked again in the Ministry. No one's suggesting that. What people are suggesting is that Mr Bertema was just making a move to take the teacher's salaries out of the lump sum, for example. The argument now is: then it is nice and close to education and then the best agreements can be made. But the biggest complaints about that lump sum are from teachers, not school administrators, because they are fine with it. Teachers want to get rid of that lump sum. What do you say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	We tell these people that we are in favour of a better career perspective in education. This should be regulated in the collective bargaining process. But we believe that schools at local level should be able to serve teachers with the money they receive. So we're not gonna cut the lump sum by taking out the teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	Finally, Mr. Kwint. You can say something, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'm a little confused right now. We're in the process of investigating the way in which we can improve the lumpsum. It's about asking like, "How can we put things in there and get things out of there?" And "how can we get a better grip on education spending?" But does the VVD say here already: no matter what happens, no matter what those teachers say to us, we are not going to do anything about the autonomy of school boards to spend the money that we give them as political?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	I think I have made it very clear that we want to get a little more grip on the lumpsum. The way in which it is not yet fully clear, but at least that will be through agreements and possible sanctions. We are conducting an investigation to see how we might be able to shape the lumpsum better, but as long as that investigation is not completed, there are no proposals and no decision-making has taken place, can I just find what the VVD thinks at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	I was also somewhat triggered by Mr Heerema's words about the lumpsum debate. He was talking very clearly about schools. He mentioned that schools at their own level make the decisions, but where he says "schools," I think he means the school boards. I would like to ask the VVD how it looks at the input of the participation council, for example the teachers. Shouldn't they have more to say about spending at their own school?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	In principle, I would think it is a sensible idea, but it should not be imposed from above. If a school thinks that the participation council has a certain position there and that it can make meaningful decisions on budgets and the way in which expenditure should be spent, let that school say above all to the participation council: we think you are important, think with us and come forward with good proposals. I understand this morning that a large number of schools have quite a lot in the bank account. I have no idea if it's true. I read it in the paper and in Elsevier. In my opinion, the first reaction of the co-determination council should be: how can that be, where is the money and how can we help to make this school run better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	I fully agree with Mr Heerema that, of course, the co-determination council questions it if it is seen that the school has a lot of money in the bank account and does not invest in the classroom. The problem is that the co-determination councils have little to say about this, because they have the power to give advice. So my question is also: should the rights of the participation councils not go much further than advising school boards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	No, I'm sticking to my first answer. I really think a school should take care of that on its own. We are not going to impose it from above, because I trust that education in it simply makes the right choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	"Don't impose it from above," I think it's a bit of a caricature, because we do, of course, make the rules here, such as the Law on participation in schools. We are establishing them here, so that is also a discussion we should be having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. So the lumpsum doesn't have to turn upside down right now. We must learn and develop the lumpsum, with the aim of optimal freedom, but also responsibility. This can be done, for example, by linking crystal clear administrative arrangements with the additional means to reduce the workload in primary education. That 450 million can then be deployed in all kinds of ways. For example, schools can appoint class assistants or concierge teachers or use them to teach movement, which come from the alo of course. The VVD does want students and teachers to notice. Everyone in this room will want that. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? I expect a detailed, concrete response. Mr. Chairman. With these comments on administrative agreements, I move on to the results of the measurement of the governance agreement on education for the movement. I'm disappointed in that. There isn't a minute extra gym and kindergarten gyms even less. If education does not solve the problem of good movement education for our students, we are forced to act as politicians. We really haven't needed proof of the importance of good movement education for a long time, because all the relevant research is there. I would like to know from the Minister how he assesses the results of this measurement. What actions is he considering? Can we not use more wisely the 10 million that have been provided for this governance agreement? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the quantity, I would also like to consider the quality of the gym lessons. On 29 November last, this Minister spoke warmly about the involvement of professional teachers. Is the Minister prepared to inform himself of the five-year growth model established by the Royal Association for Physical Education, an association of physical education teachers? Is he prepared to discuss this with the KVLO and the PO Council? Mr. Chairman. We are releasing another structural amount in the coalition agreement. This is the 270 million for improving teacher salaries in primary education. It is linked to the normalization of the super-statutory regulations. That is a tough condition for the VVD Group. Failure to normalise the super-statutory arrangements simply means that the EUR 270 million cannot be paid out. In addition, the VVD attaches great importance to the modernisation of the collective agreement. The additional resources should make the profession of teacher as attractive as possible. That is why there is also a modernisation of the collective agreement in the coalition agreement. The VVD wants to improve the career perspective in education. This means that the final wage must be able to increase and the better teacher must be able to earn more. Those changes in the function house are necessary to make the profession of master or teacher more attractive. Does the Minister see this urgency? Does he share the view that, although neither the Chamber nor the Chamber is at the table in the negotiations on working conditions, the government can only increase the lump sum if the conditions are met?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u41	The VVD talks about the necessary investments to keep the teacher's profession attractive. I very much agree with the VVD. We will differ as to whether that amount will reach it, but we will discuss it later. Here's what I'm asking you. On the one hand, are you saying that these investments are really necessary to keep the profession attractive, while on the other hand you are saying that when a collective agreement table, which I am not dealing with, comes to an outcome that I do not like, then that necessary investment is not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u42	For us, the normalization of the super-statutory regime is linked to the 270 million for teacher salaries. You can also see this link in the coalition agreement. We think that is a very logical link. As far as we are concerned, we cannot maintain the super-statutory arrangements, but we can move on to the transfer of funds. For us, this is a very logical link because it not only aims to ensure that the money is properly transferred to schools, but that we are finally doing something about the super-statutory arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u43	You may find that; that is not at all my point. My point is that you first say it's necessary, but if something is necessary, you have to do something right away. It's not necessary for nothing. It is necessary to invest in teachers. But you will wait and see what comes out of the collective agreement negotiations and say: if we don't like it, we'll sit on that bag of money. Is it necessary or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u44	It's absolutely necessary. That is why I hope that the field will get on with it very quickly in order to achieve good negotiations and to come back with something that will allow us to transfer that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u46	In conclusion, on the shortage of teachers and the remuneration position of teachers in primary education, it is only necessary as long as the collective agreement negotiations come out of what the VVD wants. That's a really weird setup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. We'll do more. Among other things, we double the reduction of tuition fees to the pabos. We're deleting the exception in the chain regulations. But the schools are also the move, because many administration cause schools themselves. I would therefore like to congratulate the Ministry on the Space Rules Guide, which has been developed by the Ministry at the request of Mr Becker. We were immediately asked whether they could also be introduced into vo, mbo and higher education. That is a question I would like to put to the Ministers. Mr. Chairman. We are going to work towards the integration of the labour market, vocational education and the curriculum review. We don't know about many jobs yet what the future's gonna look like. In fact, we don't even know that a number of jobs are going to be created in the future. But one thing we do know: we will need many more students who have done technique. Education has a major social task to respond quickly to a declining field of work and to prepare students optimally for society and, of course, to train later. This cabinet therefore proposes to provide EUR 100 million in structural funding for technical VMBO to strengthen quality and supply. As a VVD, we are very happy with that. We do have the wish that this will have as immediate an effect as possible in the classroom itself and that this will not be done through an intermediary and another intermediary. Can the Minister undertake to do so? In addition to the offer, educational content must also be up-to-date. The revision of the educational curriculum is therefore very important. For the VVD it is important for the curriculum review to include the declining field of occupation. My predecessor has pointed this out before. Now that we are at work, I would like to know from the Minister whether this is happening. A short question related to the curriculum is about the alternative to the calculation test. How are the conversations going? There is broad support for the importance of computing skills, but like language, they need to be tested in some way. I have a final question about the curriculum review. Initiatives are open to take part in the review. Did the physical education sector report to you to do so? If yes, is this route parallel? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the fact that the declining field of profession needs to be able to participate in the revision of the curriculum, this applies even more to the relationship between the labour market and the MBO. In terms of content and supply, training should be more closely linked to the regional labour market. This is what we call with a fancy word "macroefficiency." The VVD is therefore very pleased that the requirements in the MBO are tightened and that existing training can also be reviewed in higher education. The VVD expects the Minister to work on this, because in our view it cannot be the case that a training course leads to the card box of the UWV. We can't do that to the students and employers. According to the VVD, the national qualification files are also in the way. They do not provide enough room for regional differences. The coalition agreement states that we will work together with education to investigate how qualifications can be less restrictive for innovation and regional implementation and how to reduce the burden. What does the time schedule look like at that point? Does the Minister share the urgency? Mr. Chairman. Then my final point at the MBO: the choices. This seemed to be arranged. A wide-ranging amendment of the VVD has arranged for electives to be introduced and these to be counted for the diploma. However, the Minister has announced that this will be postponed by two years. The VVD Group is very disappointed about this. My colleague will be returning to the AO Mbo shortly, but we will give the signal here. The VVD Group is not yet convinced that it is necessary to delay these two years. Mr. Chairman. Then higher education. Higher education stimulates and supports students to develop into responsible and critical individuals in a complex and ever-changing world. High-quality higher education does this with inspiring teachers, challenging research projects and in close coordination with the labour market and society. Quality education has an impact, not only on the student but also on society. The quality of higher education in the Netherlands is generally fairly good. For example, all Dutch universities are in the top 200 of the world and our higher vocational education is of good quality. However, the VVD wants to make better use of all the resources resulting from the study advance and to increase the quality even further. The quality agreements in the government agreement are the key to success. As far as the VVD is concerned, the ambition is to return to the fact that education is even more in touch with the environment and actually contributes to a broader perspective on the future of students. Does the Minister see an opportunity in these quality agreements to increase contact between educational institutions and the outside world? Is it open to suggesting that quality agreements can be concluded not only with the institution but also with external partners? Governments, organisations and companies could participate financially or in children and thus increase the impact of the agreements. Finally, when can the Court expect an elaboration of the plan of approach to quality agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u48	I'm a little confused. I thought I could see from the coalition agreement that the quality agreements should be democratically established at institutional level with the staff and students' fees. If you want to involve the whole society in that, you're undermining that ambition, aren't you? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u49	The question of quality agreements is, in particular, how can it be strengthened? How can we ensure that non-educational parties can also be part of making quality agreements more effective for students? We have several places in the Netherlands, for example, in Limburg, where ASML collaborates with schools and universities where better education can be given by raising together. Let us see if we can also involve external parties in such quality agreements in order to shape better education for our students.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes, but then the question remains: is this something the VVD wants to impose here or is it up to the institutions themselves to see what they can do best? I have the feeling that the opposite of the lumpsum discussion is now being discussed. The VVD says: yes, but in this area we do want what we want to happen and should not be given too much freedom to the institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u51	We have put that question very clearly to the Minister. We'll wait for that answer. We will certainly come back to this in the second term. That depends equally on the answer the Minister is going to give. But we can very well imagine that we are going to go into a little more detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u53	I am particularly curious about what the VVD thinks and not so much what the Minister thinks, but we will hear it in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u54	I have a brief addition to my colleague Futselaar's question. My question to my colleague from the VVD is: how do we define quality in higher education? Does my colleague have a definition for that? Because that's not really worked out in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u55	I do not think we should have a definition discussion in this Chamber. I'm not planning on doing that right now. In my view, I have asked very clearly for the plan to achieve these quality agreements to be worked out. I can't wait to see what the Minister's coming up with. I think we have plenty of room for agreement in this Chamber on how best to shape it. So we should not have that definition debate right now. It will certainly come at a later date, namely when the Minister comes forward with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u56	In that case, I would ask my colleague to take the cow by the horns instead of the tail. I think it would be wise to start with the debate on what quality is, how we are going to define it and how we can possibly measure it before my colleague makes all kinds of requests to the Minister to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u57	I would imagine that at another time this would be discussed with the Chamber. If there is such a need, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Heerema spoke about improving the quality of higher education and scientific education. He talks about delivering top performance and says that ASML needs to be even better in line with this. Was Mr. Heerema yesterday at the presentation of the petition by professors? They almost desperately told us that the workload is too high and that they are facing a mandate of 184 million from this cabinet. Does Mr Heerema have a reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u59	The question was whether I was present when I offered the petition. We have several spokesmen in the cluster OCW, eight of them. That's a little more than your party has seats. My colleague was present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u60	When you're with so many people, it's all the more sad that you're so, in this way, completely misreading what's happening in higher education and scientific education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. There's going to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u62	Are you almost through your lyrics?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u63	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u64	Then I'll postpone the interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u65	Okay. Proceed, Mr. Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. 400 million is invested in science. That is good news because it allows us to do both more basic research and applied research. For the VVD, the social impact through the top sectors and the National Science Agenda is an important starting point: connecting with companies and civil society organisations and with impact at the scientific level in the world, but also with impact on the ordinary lives of many people. The VVD sees a strong need for Dutch research development, especially in the field of betas, technology and cyber, now and much more in the near future. Can the Minister confirm this need? In what way does the Minister intend to make choices in the use of available research resources? Two weeks ago, the VVD already asked Parliamentary questions about this and yesterday, this Chamber in the budget of Justice and Security adopted a motion from Rutte and Verhoeven to investigate the possibility for a cybersecurity research institute. The VVD would like to ask the Minister what role she sees in this regard for OCW. The VVD wants science and higher education to play a role in anticipating and guiding developments in the field of cyber. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of points. Last Friday we got a note about the teacher register. The VVD stresses once again that we also want the teacher register to be a register of, for and by teachers. Not for nothing do the first letters of the words "from, before and through" correspond to those of our party. But at the time of the delay, the VVD is surprised that there is no new date yet. I therefore want to know what the new planning is and what the consequences are. Is the register going to start or not going to start as planned? I was thinking about the much-needed curriculum review. The VVD welcomes the inclusion of citizenship. The curriculum about how we deal with each other in the Netherlands needs an update. My group has already made comments on this at the beginning of 2016. The then Secretary of State also announced the tightening of the citizenship mandate, in addition to updating the curriculum. I would like to ask the Minister what progress has been made in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'm just gonna come back to the teachers' register. Can I make it clear from Mr Heerema's question to the Minister that we agree that it is not "from, for and through" the teacher at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u68	We do indeed have our doubts about this. This is where steps have to be taken. We were a little surprised at the letter. That is why we are asking the Minister how things stand and what the timetable is going to be. If it continues as planned, then the VVD is not quite satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u69	I hope, however, that the VVD is satisfied. This is also stated in our joint coalition agreement if we can see that that register is also of, for and by the teacher, and that it is at present the highest priority, and not necessarily the achievement of a certain period of time. Are we still on the same page?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u70	Yeah, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u72	I was reminded in my group that with the advent of the EEA, the European Medicines Agency, and perhaps even more international companies, there will probably be an even greater demand for international schools, for example the European Schools. I would like to know from the Minister whether there has already been any thought within the Ministry about this development and how the growing need for international education can be met in time. And then here's the thing. Following the discussion of the media budget, the President of the NPO indicated that it would meet the declining STER revenues by increasing revenues. The VVD attaches great importance to an NPO that is in the middle of society and focuses on its core tasks. In view of the recent debate on the revenue and expenditure of the NPO, I would like to ask the Minister whether there can be no more transparency. The VVD would like revenue to be accounted for at programme level as of next year. And now for the final point, Mr President. The coalition agreement contains an extensive paragraph on the Rainbow Agreement, which we are proud of. The VVD is curious about what the Minister will do to shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u73	I needed some time, Mr. Chairman, because first I fell off my chair with amazement and then you have to get up and walk to a microphone like that. Does Mr Heerema announce, in the dying seconds of his term, another thing that Mrs Yesilgöz forgot about in the legislative consultation media? Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u74	Well, we've had the media budget in a legislative consultation. After that, there have been developments in both the media and the NPO. The VVD therefore needs to ask this minister whether this transparency can be given more form. I can do that here, because this is the OCW budget. Of course we have separate WGOs, but even with this OCW budget you have the room to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u75	Once again, no one denies that you have the space to ask a question, but I find it truly amazing that the VVD, the party of the previous executive in this ministry, the person in charge who was so transparent that it became clear to his successor only a week after he took office that this deficit was even there because there was another report somewhere underneath it, is now going to argue for more transparency. I'd say make that call to the former Secretary of State. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u76	The SP sits in Parliament long enough to know that Ton Elias, one of my predecessors on the media, has already been working on these kinds of motions. So this is not something that suddenly plays up at the moment; it is something that the VVD has been working on for years and years. So we have been looking for transparency for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u77	This can't be both true. You cannot say first that after the legislative consultation, there were new developments that have led you to talk about them now, and then that you have been working on this for years, so I should not be surprised at the fact that you are coming forward with them now. Are there new developments or is this a development of years? One of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u78	We've been working on this as a VVD for years. The reactions to the media budget have led us to ask this Minister another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u79	Who was the first? Mrs. Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you to the colleague. Frankly, I share Mr Kwint's surprise. I have looked into this: on 8 October 2015, a motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Mohandis, for which the VVD Group voted in favour. On the contrary, that motion specifically stated that transparency should not be given at programme level, as this could damage the independence of commerce and politics and also the independence of broadcasting. I would therefore like to ask Mr Heerema to reflect on this. How does that relate to what he just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u81	I don't have the whole timeline in front of me. What I promise you is that we will come back in the second term with what we said and did at what time. You will know exactly when Mr Elias' motion, in which we are asking for more transparency, has been tabled. If that's been after it, I think that's a logical story. If that's what it's been before, I know it's genuinely not. Then there's a bump in this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u82	Unfortunately, the confusion is not getting any less. I wonder whether Mr Heerema is referring to transparency at genre level, which was the point of the motion I mentioned, or transparency at programme level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u83	I think we're more inclined to program level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u84	Now my confusion is complete, because that is exactly what this motion was referring to. I would like to discuss this further with Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u85	I am also a little surprised that Mr Heerema is suddenly going to do a WHO Media about this. I'd like to know exactly what he wants from him. Mr Heerema has just made a passionate plea for lump sum funding in education. Now I understand that at programme level we are going to discuss the content of programmes in this Parliament as a political matter. I don't understand anything anymore. Could Mr Heerema clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think it would be wise not to do the Media legislative consultation about this. That is absolutely not the intention, but of course I brought it up myself. It is nothing other than that a motion that should have been submitted to the media budget will unfortunately be tabled later than we had planned because of the developments that are taking place. I'll tell you what, I'm gonna give you a chance to dive in real good. When the Minister comes up with an answer that is sufficient, it may not be necessary at all. I think that is the best answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u87	That's what you thought. Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u88	I forgive Mr. Heerema for being sloppy in preparation. That's not the point. What matters to me is what we're gonna do here. In future, should we call in politics every time that we do not like the content of a programme because we will have that transparency? I would like some explanation, also in the light of the independent public service broadcasting that we have in our order. That's pretty substantial. I'm sorry, but this really seems like a debate at a WHO Media. However, I would like to know exactly what the VVD is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u89	I won't give that clarity right now, let me just be clear about that. I'll give you that clarity in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u90	I had the same surprise. Mr Rog has already said a lot of very sensible things. I would like to say to Mr Heerema that in this country we have the Media Commissioner. This is specifically intended to monitor public service broadcasting and compliance with the Media Act. I think it is very sensible that we have put Parliament at a distance when it comes to the content of programming. There are plenty of programs on the public network that I find tacky, but I'm not going over it. And that's a good thing. We do not want a political discussion and micromanagement on public broadcasting. Can Mr Heerema also take into account in the second term how he sees in his plans, in the light of that motion, the role of the Media Commissioner, which I know is reported to it in detail and transparently by that same public service broadcaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u91	I can just promise. Thank you. But I thought Mr Bertema wanted to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yes, Mr Bertema would come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u93	With all due respect, I have rarely heard a less inspiring speech during a budget treatment on education than that of the VVD. If this is the position of the VVD, then I get it right when I say: this cabinet is going to look after the store, you can't expect anything from it, a little bit of money to slide here and there, quality agreements we all want, one open door after another; we all want it. But it's about that lump sum right now. That's the big theme. I have heard you say that despite Leiden and despite your position at the time, it remains as it is: all confidence in the directors and the presidents. They can sleep at night again, because the VVD is behind them. I find that very disappointing. Let me ask you another question. Your predecessor Duisenberg, spokesperson for higher education, is now chairman of one of the biggest players, the VSNU. It was not quite chic to go directly from a spokesperson to such an important position, but that is a bit of a VVD-speciality. At the time he talked about the political bias, that leftist bias of all that higher education, but anyway of all the education, with that bashen of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u94	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u95	...the Forum for Democracy and the PVV and so on. Those teachers are just busy...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u97	...with indoctrination and so on. Would you be in favour of that code of conduct I'm talking about, following your predecessor's example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u98	Is this an announcement of a motion to include it in the teacher register?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u99	No, it's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u100	No, I'm talking about a code of conduct I'd like to introduce to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u101	I'm willing to look into it. I do not know what the effect is, of course, but I have also heard you say some very sensible things in your speech, which I could sometimes agree with and sometimes find a little less in. If we can take a step together, I think it would be interesting to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u102	In a way, that reassures me. As far as I am concerned, this is going to be a very nice code of conduct. You should take this opportunity to say that the profession of teacher is actually one of the few important professions that does not yet have a code of conduct. So take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago around this time I ran around this building and along the Hofvijver with a group of students and also MPs. The then Minister of Education needed more than 1 billion. I see a few people looking surprised. This, of course, requires some explanation. Shortly before that came the report LeerKracht! from the Teachers Commission, led by Alexander Rinnooy Kan. She wrote: The Netherlands is on the eve of a dramatic shortage of teachers. That is, of course, a harsh conclusion. In summary, this committee found that there were three things needed to be done. One, a better reward from teachers. Two, a stronger profession. Three, a professional school. Minister of Education Plasterk indicated that he would take the advice seriously, but to implement these ideas he needed more than 1 billion. Unfortunately, the then Finance Minister, Wouter Bos, let him know that he had to look for it in his own budget. You can already guess: the National Student Union, which I was chairman of at the time, saw that students would get the bill, for example by increasing tuition fees. At the same time, we also felt that teachers deserved more. That is why we organized a sponsor walk to help Minister Plasterk. Let me show you this shirt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u105	I was wondering, what do you have with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u106	This is the shirt that we wore then, ten years ago, and a number of MPs also wore it in the sponsorship run to help the minister to raise teachers' salaries to over 1 billion. You will understand, of course, where I am going, because it is really crazy to say that ten years after this important report came out, which found that the teacher shortage was underestimated in the 15 years before, we are back here to talk about the shortage of teachers and all the consequences of that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress that Dutch education is good thanks to our teachers. They work unpaid overtime for hours a week. They work on vacations. They continue to work when they are half-sick and work in classes that are far too full, with the result that the Dutch education champion is workload and we are on top of all lists. That's not what I mean positively in this case. I seriously do not understand that previous Cabinets have done so little to address this problem. About the 1.1 billion for teacher salaries and education: that amount came. By the way, there was also the increase in tuition fees. But teachers had little net benefit from this, among other things because shortly afterwards the Balkende cabinet introduced the zero line for education. Teachers and this minister too are concerned with the consequences. I understand very well that this is not a party. This minister can explain that there is no more money in education. Let us be honest: previous Cabinets too have done far too little about it. On top of this huge shortage of teachers, the legacy of the VVD and the PvdA also consists of a cut, which this minister can solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u107	I don't feel directly the challenge of defending the previous cabinet, with that zero line. I would like to mention that I think we have that one billion of Learning Power! When government also made agreements with trade unions and employers. In primary education 48% of teachers would be on a higher scale, or 40% would be one scale higher and 2% would be two scales higher. Does Mrs Westerveld know how many percent of teachers have actually entered that higher scale at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u108	No, I don't know the percentage by heart. I do know that these agreements have not been fulfilled and that far too few teachers have entered the higher pay scales.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u109	26% of teachers. So that means that more than one in five teachers in primary education is currently wrongly scaled down a scale lower than what we have agreed, with a signature from the PO Council, with a signature from the minister and with a signature from the trade unions. Mrs Westerveld can now talk about the zero line at a difficult time we have had, but what does she say to the social partners about not meeting this agreement, which is signed by three parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u110	That is not a very difficult answer: that we have to keep these agreements, that we also have to make stricter agreements as far as we are concerned, and that we in this Chamber should take a very close look at the lump sum system and whether there is any reason to change that lump sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you. I understand very well that this minister and the teachers are concerned about the consequences, but I understand the discontent of teachers even better because teachers are concerned about education and their pupils. Last week we were allowed to join the Facebook group of PO in action and we were able to see how classes were sent home massively and teachers wrote that they were given double groups or that the intern was forced to stand alone in front of the class. Teachers are also disappointed that the urgency is not felt enough and, like me, are surprised that the word 'teacher shortage' does not appear in the coalition agreement, even after the mass strike of teachers a while ago. That's why I have a few questions for the Minister. Is he willing to cooperate in raising an amount for the workload? In order to improve the workload, 10 million was made available next year, approximately €7 per child. You don't need to have passed a math test to realize that this is really not enough to take that first step. I am also considering a motion on this point, because the shortage of teachers is now there and in ten years in primary education rises to 11,000 full-time jobs and in secondary education to 1,200. We're gonna have a shortage of 17,000 teachers in 10 years if we don't change something soon. I would also like to ask about the legacy of the previous cabinet, because this government wants to save the amount of 183 million by reducing efficiency. I'd like to ask the Minister, how? What is more effective education? Is that, for example, five extra students in the classroom or do we ask teachers to only work a few more hours a week? So I'd like a response from the Minister. Then secondary school. This cabinet seems to be forgetting secondary education. And there too, the workload is enormous. In secondary education, nothing is set aside for the workload in the coalition agreement, i.e. zero point zero euro. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to carry out my colleague Mr Van Meenen's motion to reduce the number of teaching hours in secondary education to twenty or perhaps to start with it already. This also reduces the workload in secondary education and ensures that teachers have more time for development and further training. In addition, we are facing shrinkage in both secondary and primary education. That's another word for falling student numbers. Over the next ten years there will be more than 10% fewer pupils, but there are very large differences in the regions. For example in the Achterhoek where I come from or in Zeeland the number of teachers falls much harder. The same applies to the VMBO, where we see a drop in students. But schools have lost the same to the buildings, for example. So I ask the Minister what his plans are when it comes to shrinkage. Then I have a brief question about the calculation test in secondary education. We are very pleased that this test is being abolished, but can the Minister explain to this group of pupils when it will happen? Then the appeal. There are more ways of making the profession more attractive. Before the summer, I asked for the plans to be worked out. That is what Secretary of State Dekker would do, but I am a little disappointed. So I would like to ask this Minister the same question: what are the concrete plans? Who's what? What's the timeline? What's the plan? What's the estimate? I would like to have as concrete a response as possible. On all sides, we must try to get more people excited about education, because the influx into teacher training is too low. The government agreement states that tuition fees for the pabos will also be halved in the second year. I ask the Minister whether this is also true of academic teacher training. Then we have a number of thresholds, for example the threshold of higher tuition fees for the second study. There is an exception, for care and for education, but this does not apply to students who, for example, have first studied pedagogy and then wish to receive teacher training. They often still pay the full amount of €7,000, €8,000 tuition fees. This even applies to digital variants. GroenLinks asks the Minister to remove these thresholds and to ensure that these students also pay the lower tuition fees. In the government agreements of previous Cabinets three hours per week were movement education by competent teachers. In this coalition agreement, it has disappeared. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with GroenLinks that we should strive for this, especially in order to relieve other teachers. They can then spend these hours on their other activities. I was also pleased with the fine speech made by my VVD colleague on the teaching of movement in schools. Mr. Chairman. We have a huge quiet reserve. Those are people who do have an educational competence but for some reason are no longer in the classroom. Since 1988 these are over 30,000 people, I read. If they all return to education, of course, we will have solved this shortage of teachers. But we can also do more to encourage people from other sectors who are considering a career switch. Because it is now a huge quest to find the right information alone, for example on what training is needed. I suggest that we put more effort into this through a good campaign to recruit people, but also through a clear website, by simply offering it together and, for example, by someone who can be called in case of questions. I think this can help people who are already in doubt about taking that last step and perhaps taking training. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u113	I have been on the verge of thanking Mrs Westerveld for the things she says, for that sounds a lot of heart for education. It is really a pity that you are not on our side at the moment, I say only once today. And, of course, thank you for the fact that you would like my motion to be carried out. I want to do that myself. I'll come back to that later. But let's talk about the lack of teachers. It doesn't say the word. To paraphrase the Prime Minister: the word "boeddhism" is not in it either, there is, and there is also a shortage of teachers. What we are trying to do is to solve the shortage of teachers, for example through pressure measures and so on. I would first like to ask Mrs Westerveld: does she think there are good things in the coalition agreement and can she mention some of them? What's she happy about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yes. But I think I have already made that clear in my speech. I think it is very good that a first step has been taken, for example to reduce the workload and ensure that salaries are increased in primary education. I shall come back to, for example, the broad bridge classes, which are also included in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's good to hear. Then, on your last point, that quiet reserve, as you call it. There's a lot of people at home. That is also, in part, what the debate on these super-statutory regulations is about. Because it is also quite attractive, I say from my own experience. If you grab him just passed the 50, you've been working in education for a number of years and gets out of education for some reason, you can get up to your AOW 70% of your salary. That is the arrangement as we know it at the moment. What this coalition agreement says is: let's do something about it, let's bet on what's really about making working in the classroom attractive, so salaries. So let's take a very critical look at these super-statutory schemes and convert the money that goes there into inactivity into activity. How does GroenLinks look, how does Mrs Westerveld look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u116	I think that is a good question from Mr Van Meenen, but what I am not particularly in favour of is that this cabinet wants to sit at the collective bargaining table and thus to break into agreements that employers and employees have to make with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u117	That sounds very chic, of course, and I'm not one of them either. But the alternative is that we are only going to look at The Hague for the solution. Apart from the question of whether The Hague wishes to do so now, doesn't Mrs Westerveld think that it is actually the task of education itself in this case the PO Council, but I would also mention the VO Council and the MBO Council to take a critical look at what the money is spent on? For example, the government agreement also states that we need to see what we actually think is effective in education. How does Mrs Westerveld look at that from that perspective, perhaps just as a former union woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u118	I wasn't going to speak here as a former union woman. Since I worked before this at the General Education Association, I have, of course, got all the stories about the collective bargaining on that side. I asked the Minister how he sees efficiency. I do not see how education can work even more effectively. I don't see what education should do for that either. That is a genuine question from us. When we talk about, for example, the super-statutory regulations, I have the impression that Mr Van Meenen is a little more optimistic than it is now, because the secondary conditions of employment in education are not very good. This kind of scheme also helps people to get out of education in a good way. I think we should be very careful of sitting at the collective bargaining table as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u119	Please continue. No, Mr. Rog has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u120	I think it's a bit of a marvellous argument. In my opinion, GroenLinks shares the calls of the AOb and such organisations that the government needs to get more control over where the education money is going. But if that same government, or in this case the cabinet, says, "We are very sorry that we are putting a lot of extra money into, for example, super-statutory regulations, we shouldn't let that drop in the classroom, so that the profession of teacher becomes more attractive again?" GroenLinks doesn't give home. How does Mrs Westerveld unite these things?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u121	Let me put it a little more clearly. The way it is now in the coalition agreement is almost blackmail, I think. With that you say: you will get the extra money, if you first do something about those super-statutory arrangements. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u122	Okay, well, at least we're a long way away: Mrs Westerveld is having trouble with the hard link being made. Of course that is possible, but does she agree with me that the money for education should end up in the classroom and that tax money we spend on education should not end up in very generous super-statutory regulations, so that the money may end up in the classroom too little?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u123	I distance myself from the words "very generous super-statutory arrangements." Education does indeed have a number of super-statutory regulations. It is a good thing that we can make agreements about this within education itself. Of course, the money we have for education must be spent as much as possible on education itself, but also on the fact that the money is intended for a very large part for teaching staff. As a government and as an education sector, we must take good care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u125	Then there's the good news. I should also like to look at Mr Van Meenen, because he specifically asked for this. I'm sure there's some good news in the coalition agreement. For example, I am very pleased that the Minister has taken a good look at our motions on the policy of backwardness. I had written an amendment to reverse the cuts in municipal education deficit policy for 2018, but we are not going to file that, because the Minister himself took care of this last week. We are pleased with that; it is also very much needed. I do have a question for the Minister. Over the past six years, spending on school backwardness policies has decreased by 35%. Does the Minister agree that the real backlogs have been reduced by a third? This cabinet also invests in pre-school education. We welcome this, too, but we see virtually nothing in the government agreement on the link between care and education, while we know that the first few years are essential for the development of children. I would like to ask why there is nothing in the coalition agreement on this. What will the Minister do with the advice of the Task Force on cooperation between reception and education? Then I'd like to say a few words about the odds. Chance inequality is in our entire education. GroenLinks has often mentioned the importance of broad bridge classes, especially since we know that children have to choose at a very young age. That really is a weakness of our system, we think. How does the Minister see this? Another source of inequality of opportunity is shadow education. Highly educated parents or parents who have a lot of money often send their child to tutoring. When we talk about highly educated parents, is it not time to move away from the terms "high" and "low-educated" and replace them with "practically" and "theoretically trained" in, for example, policy papers? Our language expresses a value judgment here. Shadow education is also a result of efficiency thinking. Previous Cabinets often considered efficiency and money more important than good education and customization. Performance pressures take on unhealthy forms throughout the education sector. More and more we hear reports about young people with burn-out. Is the Minister prepared to investigate performance pressures and burn-outs among pupils and students and the relationship with the educational system? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to focus on the appropriate education. A while ago I was at the opening of the chance class in Heerhugowaard. Children with severe multiple disability go here to a regular school in their own neighborhood. If we want a society in which everyone can participate, we really need to embrace such initiatives. However, such initiatives often run into difficulties. These pupils are often excluded from compulsory schooling and do not receive education funding. The classes are often partly financed by the healthcare budget. For example, that can't go to the classroom rent. There are more bottlenecks. I would ask the Minister, together with his colleague from VWS, to look at the obstacles and take them away. Then I have a point about the homeowners. The aim of appropriate education was to reduce the number of children who do not go to school. That didn't work. I spoke to a group of homeowners recently. They know very well what they need. I would like to ask the Minister to do the same, to talk to homeowners and parents to see what they need and to talk not only about these pupils, but above all about them. These words are a nice bridge to my final point. As far as I am concerned, we need to involve pupils and teachers much better throughout education. For example, I am also talking about making decisions in policy, for example through stronger participation. I want to ask the Minister what he thinks about and what he's going to do to give teachers and students a real voice. I am convinced that if previous ministers had listened better to the wishes of teachers and students, we would not have had such a huge shortage of teachers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u126	Just a little while longer. In the fine things Mrs Westerveld mentioned in the coalition agreement, she did not mention the fact that there is a right of assent on the main line of the budget for precisely those teachers and those parents and those students. Does she not think that this is perhaps the most important right that they now have to influence school policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u127	That is a nice question from Mr Van Meenen. I did not mention everything, not all the good things and not all the things that we have reservations about, simply because we do not have too much speaking time. That'll put every party here with it. That right of consent is a very good start, but I would like to make it quite clear that the right of consent does not solve everything and that I also think it is very important that teachers, students, in higher education, we also talk about students, enough time and facilities to really talk about that policy. We all know that a board has a head start when it comes to knowledge and time, because they are running full-time and teachers, students and students have to do it. I would like to ask this Minister specifically to look at what is needed to shape this real participation, not only on paper, but also in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr. Chairman. Our country, the beautiful Netherlands, is a land of mills, tulips and dikes. But we have grown up by not hiding behind those dikes, but by simply moving into the world with an open eye and at the same time bringing the world to our country. From Spinoza to my grandfather Mehmet the host worker, over the centuries we have welcomed those who sought freedom and progress. That is why I am concerned about the debate on internationalisation in our education. On the one hand, there are people who say that by definition is bad and that we need to close the shutters. Knowledge doesn't stop at our borders. The Netherlands, as we have always done historically, must welcome the best scientists, talents and students. We should also encourage our own students to look beyond the border. In short, against people who claim that internationalisation would only be an elitist project, imposed by a top layer with no connection to the common people, that we should retreat behind the dikes, to those people I say: make that the cat wise. On the other hand, there are people who claim that internationalization is the holy grail, that if you have not done an international exchange program or English-language Master you are not doing well. That too is wrong. Because internationalisation must always be a means and never an end in itself. GroenLinks welcomes what is stated in the coalition agreement: more outgoing and incoming students. The Minister made a commitment to come forward with a vision letter on how to do this before the summer. But we are also waiting for an earlier commitment, made during the general consultation on internationalisation in December 2016, for an integrated and coherent strategy. Well, the framework conditions for the ambitions in the coalition agreement must be in order, at least my group agrees with that. And so sufficient accommodation for incoming students. I asked questions about this with my colleague Linda Voortman. My question to the Minister is when the Chamber can expect the promised reconnaissance. How does it relate to the vision letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u130	Until we come to an exploration and so we still have to deal with Article 7 (2) of the Higher Education Act, which we simply trample on. You are here to applaud us for doing so. Isn't it more convenient to change that law first? It can't be that we all pass laws here in the States-General, First and Second Chambers, and then say: yes, that law doesn't come out, so we put it aside and what about internationalisation? Of course you can't. That Dutch is threatening to disappear as a language of teaching, instruction and research and as a cultural language, and that is terrible. All of a sudden, everyone's talking to that weird coal angel. We just talked about it. My question is, why are you so excited about that? Why must it be so that 52% of students from the University of Maastricht...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u132	... is foreign. Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u133	The interruptions started well, short and powerful, but it's getting a little out of hand, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u134	I understand very well that Harm Bertema of the PVV does not understand the value of internationalisation, of exchange of students back and forth. That makes sense. If you close the shutters, you can't look out, you can't see anything. So I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u135	If this is the level of debate... I never said internationalisation shouldn't be allowed, we've always internationalized. In my day colleagues went to MIT, we all loved it. Of course, internationalisation is necessary, but if we're going to talk at this level, that the PVV wants to close all the shutters and so on, stop, we're done talking, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr President, I am pleased to hear that Mr Beertema is very much in agreement with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr. Chairman. Current policies for outgoing students include affordable study funding, promotion through campaigns and funding of scholarship programmes. The Netherlands, however, has been undervalued for years in the European context when it comes to outgoing diploma mobility. What concrete steps does the Minister intend to take to increase outgoing mobility? Mr. Chairman. In addition to internationalisation, ensnaring must not be an end in itself. Unfortunately, it seems more and more to go that way, with entire lecture halls with only Dutch students and Dutch teachers who will then do courses in English, even subjects such as Dutch history, now "Dutch history," with lectures in which the teacher indeed tells in coal engels about the old Dutch puppetry of "Hans Sausage" or Hansworst. Mr President, patriotic history does not have to be in English. Engelsing should not become a mandatory standard or a earning model. Engelsing must not be at the expense of the quality of our education. The government wants to strengthen its monitoring of compliance with the legal requirements for training in English. It is a pity that Mr Beertema has run away, by the way, and that is a good thing. They are good ambitions in the coalition agreement, but here too I miss a vision of the solution, a concrete effect. Well, I guess I'd better make a move, Mr. Chairman. In secondary education, it is quite common to set minimum requirements for teachers teaching in English. We have the network of bilingual education (tto) of about 130 schools that are allowed to carry the hallmark tot. Teachers who teach in English at these schools must master the language at a minimum B2 level. In these schools attention is also paid to the didactics of teaching in a foreign language. Mr President, I can go a step further. Last month the Keuzegids Universiteits 2018. Maastricht University is the leader of the English classification, with C1 as a minimum requirement, and if there are complaints about teacher language management, there is a lot of support from Maastricht University itself. In short, Mr President, our universities can learn from examples from secondary education and also from higher education itself. That is why I ask the Minister: is she willing to explore best practices together with universities, for example the VSNU's proposal to make minimum language level C1 mandatory for teachers teaching in English at universities? Mr. Chairman. Then teaching in secondary vocational education. In no other form of education do students have to sign a separate contract with an educational institution, but with the MBO. Moreover, this compulsory education agreement is a sham, because it does not guarantee the rights of students. It's more like a roadblock contract. And it also unnecessarily increases the workload for teachers in the MBO, as recent research has shown. That workload is already coming out of the proverbial spigates. Almost 75% of MBO teachers experience too high a workload. This education agreement therefore creates unnecessary burdens for teachers and does not help students. In short, therefore, abolish it. The rights of students are better regulated by law. That is why it is important that students are also aware of these rights, and that is why we want to focus on better information. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet says to halve tuition fees for first-year students, but that turns out to be another cigar out of its own box. Students will eventually have to pay this themselves by increasing interest on their loan. This is not in line with the aims of this system. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, students continue to pay the low interest rate. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. After PO in action, there is now "vo in action," "hbo in action" and "wo in action," and that is not random. No one can deny that the workload in our education system is too high. I would like to draw particular attention today to PhD students. PhD students are invaluable for the Netherlands as a knowledge country. At our universities they carry out science at the highest level and also carry out educational tasks. However, the problems faced by PhD students are not mild. Within science, the workload is almost nowhere so high, burn-outs are almost nowhere so common and the risk of depression is almost nowhere so high. In addition, more than 40% of the staff in a university have a temporary contract. Research by the national organisation for PhD students, the PhD candidate Network Netherlands, also shows that PhD students are increasingly getting a shorter contract than is necessary to complete their work. PhD students often have to complete the process even in the WW or in their own time. The legal status of our PhD students is too fragile and the problems are getting more and more serious. That's unacceptable. So it's time for a change. Organisations within the field of education and research receive money from the Minister. As a result, they can defend their interests well, but the PhD Network Netherlands is not yet funded. Is the Minister prepared to engage with the PhD Network in the Netherlands and explore how, in line with other organisations, they can also receive support from the budget resources for organisations? Finally, Mr President. No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yesterday, a petition was presented here by university teachers who complained greatly about the workload, burn-outs, too many students and far too little time. That's why I'm asking you one more time. I'll give you a second chance. Then why should we be happy with 50% extra foreign students at the University of Maastricht? If we do not, we will have 50% less work pressure and then we can spend 50% more time on our own Dutch students. Then why is it this huge ideological compulsion to let the whole world study here? I really don't understand that. Why don't you explain that to me? What good will it do to us as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u140	I think my colleague Bertema from the PVV is making a number of strange connections. Exchange students do not determine the administrative burden at universities. Exchange students have not said: we are going to make the funding system so that teachers and students are increasingly judged on figures. I understand very well that Mr Beertema is not so much of science and facts as he is. We have just heard this from an interruption by Mr Kwint on climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u141	Don't do that. Take me seriously. Not those things in between, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u142	I would like to call on my colleague Bertema to take this debate seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u143	That dedain in between, it disturbs me immeasurably. You shouldn't do that. You don't discriminate, do you? Then don't do that to me, please. Last time, it was about my age that wouldn't be right. I insist that you treat me as a fellow MEP with decency, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u144	I think I do. I'm glad to hear the PVV is against discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u146	Oh, those clever things. Mr. Chairman. This is a serious question. Mr Özdil also knows that reciprocity in internationalisation is not in order. There are many, much less Dutch students going abroad than foreign students coming here. All these foreign students put pressure on the teachers' commitment and even on student housing. It's about huge numbers. Once again, Maastricht is cheering and they see it as a victory that they have 52% foreign students. I still do not understand why it is so ideologically inserted, that it is so important to go to the outside world with these kinds of numbers, while the teachers complain about the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u147	We clearly differ from one another in terms of causality, the causes of the workload, as Mr Beertema rightly points out. That is something I would like to point out, and I think everyone is pointing that out. Even if zero exchange students were to enter, this workload would increase due to other causes. These are causes that my colleague Bertema does not want to look at or dare to look at, I do not know. At least I'm glad to hear that he prefers to catch the cow not by the horns, but by the tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you. You weren't finished. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally. The fundamental question we face in the Netherlands is: what is education ultimately about? I think we're at a crossroads. If we continue on this path, with our education increasingly as a product and with educational institutions as companies, do I once again look at Mr. Beertema on a product that sells a product? The consequences are obvious: the constant rise in working pressure from primary education to scientific research. Let us take a different path, because the essence of education is to stimulate people's personal growth, development and creativity. Let's guide and guide children, students and students to bring their self-development to ultimate bloom, and let's stop dealing with students and teachers on numbers all the time. Because education is not a product. Students are not consumers. And you don't deliver science to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u150	Thank you. Mr Rog has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u151	Madam President. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. Especially at a time when the shortage of teachers is increasing, it is important that social partners, school boards and the cabinet invest in making teachership more attractive, investing in more space and confidence in teachers, investing in less workload and more salary. Out of the 1.5 billion additional structural investments in education, half go to lower workload and higher salary for teachers in primary education. That is quite right. That is precisely why the CDA wants teachers, parents and students to be allowed to assume that the money for education will end up in the classroom, not as was previously the case with the job mix. At that time, the government and social partners agreed that from 2014 48% of teachers reached a higher level, while to date only a quarter of teachers in primary education have been placed in this higher scale. And not like it was in the years 2012 to 2016. In those years, an additional EUR 2.4 billion was added to primary education cumulatively, of which EUR 700 million was transferred to the bank account. That is more than a quarter of the extra resources that have gone to primary education. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that money for additional wages and less workload is actually spent on those goals? How is he going to secure the terms of the government agreement? What steps is he going to take to get the increased reserves of schools and the money that goes on super-statutory benefits and schemes into the classroom? Does the Minister see opportunities to engage with the social partners to better spread the existing workload over the year, thus reducing the workload further? From what point can schools be more easily able to hire temporary staff without being affected by that nasty chain determination from the WWZ? Perhaps it would be a good idea to draw attention to the broad period of seed and harvest leave we know in the Netherlands in the discussions on the distribution of labour pressure. This not only causes peak load on teachers, but also increases the probability gap. Children who do not read books, make music, go to Rome on vacation or visit museums in their spare time will only fall further behind. Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes the fact that the rulers show a sense of urgency to improve the educational labour market. In recent years, the CDA has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to initiatives to seduce students in secondary education to teachership, for example through the Teachnasium. The first modest experiments will start next school year. We ask the Minister if he can broaden this experiment further in order to get more well-prepared students and, above all, more boys and immigrant role models in the classroom. Of course we ask him to do so in cooperation with the Minister of State. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is working to restore the professional autonomy of teachers and school leaders. Teachers are facilitated and are at the helm of the curriculum review. Education co-operatives are really made of, for and by teachers. And as a registry teacher you no longer need to be lured by visiting a free iPad or a licked event or even measurement-up. Lesson development, intervision and learning evaluation will be included in the maintenance of your educational competence. How will the Minister promote these transitions of educational cooperation and the teacher register? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet offers room for schools. The role of the education inspection has been fundamentally different since this school year and leaves more room for a school-specific interpretation of the educational and didactic environment. The CDA has always advocated the deletion of rules, and all schools will soon benefit. That is no longer just reserved for schools with the state predicate excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u152	I'm a little late, but I'll come back to the issue of educational cooperation and the teacher register. I hear Mr. Rog saying that there is still a need for both, for the cooperative and for the register, even for the CDA. I have already argued in my term that it really has to be different and that it really has to be for and through the teachers, with the OCW and all the other organization remotely. How does Mr. Rog see that? Who's gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u153	I am very pleased with the text in the coalition agreement. In that we really say: this must be from, before, through. This means that teachers themselves must have direct influence. I see this on the one hand in a representative body, a direct representation there. But as far as I'm concerned, this also means that lectures from teachers, teachers' teams, at school level are given much more control over how their profession works. In that light, I say that we must look very critically, especially when it comes to the teacher register. That is precisely why I have just mentioned that point. Working on your own development really doesn't have to be all through licked, expensive courses, where it's suspicious often that exactly the maximum fees are demanded and extra gadgets should seduce teachers to fall into that trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u154	Okay, I like that. Are you going to say anything about the math test?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u155	Absolutely! Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u157	Madam President. The cabinet is taking substantial steps to reduce the test madness in our education. Kindergarten is gonna be able to just go back to kindergarten. That's why we're really quitting the kindergarten tests. And we stop the imposed Hague standards on the number of young children allowed to lie for a year. This is how kindergarten teachers regain the trust they deserve. Will the Minister promise us here that he will take these matters up urgently and inform school administrators and kindergarten teachers about the regained autonomy of their profession? In secondary education, too, we control ourselves with the Hague regulatoryism and we remove the underbuilding test. And Mr. Beertema, that's where he comes in. The math test doesn't count anymore for the VWO exam. However, at the moment there is still a lot of uncertainty among parents, teachers and students: does this controversial calculation test still count in this school year or does it not count in the vwo exam? For the CDA, the agreements in the coalition agreement are ready: the calculation test doesn't count anymore from this exam year on. Can the Minister confirm this for those 40,000 VWO students who were worried about their exams? Mastering basic skills such as mathematics and the Dutch language is indispensable in our complex information society. But according to the CDA, education is about more than just math and language. It is also about socialization and personal formation, learning with head, heart and hands. We continue to need the talents in practical skills and crafts. Like the theoretical talents, they deserve a good education with maximum challenge. That is why the CDA welcomes the extra investment of EUR 100 million in technical VMBO. It lays the foundations for the plasterers, plumbers and also a large part of the ICTs of the future. We would like to hear from the rulers how they think in these times of shrinkage that a covering offer of technical vmbo can be realized. In what time can we look forward to an action plan? And, I ask the Minister, can we assume that the green VMBO is also involved where there is a technical curriculum? Speaking of green is, moreover, a good way to make education more sustainable. We recommend that we also look at the realisation of more solar panels on school buildings. For this there is a wonderful plan from the Schooldak Revolution Foundation, an initiative that can contribute to the achievement of the Paris climate goals and also reduces the energy costs of schools. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the initiators and his colleague from Economic Affairs and Climate Policy on this issue in order to explore the feasibility of and possible contribution to this initiative? A major advantage, in addition to the climate objective, would be to reduce the costs of schools further. Mr. Chairman. We often talk about money for education that should be put at the place for which it is intended. The summer and spring schools that we have successfully set up through experiments to prevent young people from being left with one or a few shortcomings and having to do so again for a whole year are a great success. It is precisely for this reason that the CDA does not want to add the money that is being used for this purpose to the lumpsum or the performance box. We want to keep this money for which it is intended: a subsidy scheme for those schools that are actually making efforts to prevent students from remaining in their seats. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, and I would like to hear the Minister's views on it. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. My colleague will be responsible for green education, MBO and higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u158	What does Mr Rog think of the pay gap between primary school teachers and secondary school teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u159	I think I agree with Mr Kwint that it is difficult to explain this; that is just my interpretation of the fact that he is asking me that question. I myself have been a teacher in secondary education at all levels and there I found it personal, emotional, also complicated to explain that teachers in the secondary school vmbo earn less than their colleagues in the upper secondary school, because I found it much more complicated to teach on the vmbo basis/framework than on the vwo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u160	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u161	Salaries follow from job evaluation systems. I believe that there is an important responsibility on the part of the social partners to redefine these functions and to look closely at where that difference is justified. Apparently, according to the pay gap, we now give a lot of extra money in professional content, other than the general pedagogical-eductic skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr President, if necessary, you will leave my time... Frankly, I think this is a fair question from Mr Kwint. I'd like to answer that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, but not too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm offering to let my time pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u166	No, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u167	That offer to take over a few minutes from the CDA, I'll take it on my own term. That's what I do with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u168	It doesn't work that way, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u169	Oh, come on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u170	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u171	In essence, the CDA says: we don't really understand it and it's actually hard to defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u172	Yes, and that is why I am so pleased that we have chosen, unlike our election programme and that of the VVD, the Christian Union and D66, and also unlike the SP or GroenLinks, to take the responsibility in the cabinet to make a contribution to further reducing that difference. But I'm gonna add something to this. It is also true that at the moment one in five teachers in primary education are not in a higher scale, although we have agreed on this. It is also true that part of this difference in salary is explained by the fact that in the last ten years wages in vo, with the same resources available, have increased 3% more than in primary education. Yeah, I happen to know something about it. If Mr Kwint thinks that this should be reduced, I would like to tell him that the answer is not only in more money from The Hague, because that money from The Hague to the sector has not always been put in the teacher's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u173	Well, then I think we have a solution: then we get the salaries from the lump sum and increase the amount we make available for the salaries. Then we know for sure that the money and from The Hague gets directly into the class through the salaries and through the extra funding. If Mr Rog agrees with me, I am going to write a motion now and then we are ready for today, at least for this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u174	I myself am very pleased that in the coalition agreement we are linking many clear goals to the money we make available to education. I'm proud of that, and I think that's important. At the same time, we have indicated that we are doing a field consultation around this lump sum payment and this is a pregnant point in this case. You were involved in this from the Lower House by questioning the Education Council and the Court of Auditors. These are elements that we are going to consider very carefully. But one thing is certain for me: I want to have spent the money that goes to education for salaries and reduction of labour costs, and not on the bank accounts anymore. I therefore no longer want the agreements not to be complied with, as has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u175	We all know that the workload in education is very high. The cabinet does indeed pay a sum for this. That's just going very slowly. Next year, 10 million will be allocated to reduce the workload. I said in my speech that I think that is very little. I would like to ask Mr Rog if he sees anything in the idea of seeing if the amount available in the longer term can be brought forward, so that we can invest already next year in reducing this high workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u176	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes, very briefly. We are bound by a coalition agreement. In that coalition agreement we made agreements, which really lead to a great deal of money, amounting to EUR 430 million for the reduction of workload. I'm so proud of that. In my term, I have said that I challenge this minister to look at, in conversation with the social partners, how the funds that have gone to education in the past can be removed from the bank account and could already be used to alleviate this workload rather than with the large amounts of money that will soon be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u178	I understand this reaction. Mr Rog says that we have a coalition agreement and we are sticking to it. Then there's a question about those resources. Could we not look more closely at ways to ensure that money really comes into the classroom, by making sure that participation is really strengthened, so that teachers have more right of consent and also better facilitated to ensure that that money is put in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u179	I believe that this is something that we also have in the coalition agreement. As you can see, I'm almost going to internalize it. Teachers will also have the right to vote on the main lines of the budget in these sectors. I think you'll be very happy about that, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u180	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u181	I would like to respond briefly to that. I made it very clear in my speech that that is not all. We also need to ensure that people have the time and space to teach themselves to really talk to. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u182	I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld. I hope that has also been the aftertaste of my contribution, in which I have just said that this belongs in the domain of the teacher's professional autonomy. I absolutely want to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u183	The same goes for the CDA as for the VVD: it's a sleek coalition story, without any vision, a little shuffling with money, and so on. But just so we're clear, do I understand that the math test is going to go? It's just gonna go away, all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u184	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u185	He was born in Rutte II, I believe. No, in Rutte I. Then we felt, along with you, that that should change. That was a hype. It's just been very wrong that you guys decided that, even as a CDA. And now you're gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u186	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u187	So apologize, I'd say, for all this shit. You have bent deeply, Mr Rog, I'd just like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr President, is it my turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u190	I would like to give Mr Bertema something back. I know the PVV and I know Mr Beertema as someone who has been very concerned in the past about the storytelling, the realistic calculation, the new arithmetic, which we have passed with the introduction of the calculation test. Mr Beertema is right to say that we have found ourselves in a bad situation with regard to computational skills. I also appeal to this Minister. That's what we need to invest in. Once again, we have to count on elementary school and that must be maintained in secondary education and MBO. However, this calculation test is controversial. Mr Beertema should know that. And I don't want any students going down there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u191	I agree with you: he is controversial. I certainly agree with you, but then you have to think along with me and say: if this is already controversial, a calculation test, what are we doing? What are those rulers doing? What are we doing that we can't even do that? Finally, I understand that the lumpsum stays the way it is, with some extra appointments here and there. I congratulate the CDA. They've been completely wrapped up by D66. So it will indeed be: look after the store and no major themes. That's it. Disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u192	I fully agree with Mr Rog when he says that education deserves to be invested. We share the passion for education, which is also my background. However, I wonder how this call for investment in education relates to the investment of 270 million in teacher salaries, which is, of course, far from enough to alleviate the need. I would very much like to hear Mr Rog's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u193	I must say that sometimes I think we should look at ourselves. And also that the councils should look at themselves. If I get an e-mail from my children's school, which says that this cabinet is not investing in education and even cutting back on education, then they have fallen into the frame of the PO Council which has published one-sided reports on the mission, and that we should look at Mrs Van den Hul for a moment after five years of PvdA policy. I'm just gonna say it in a subtle way. This cabinet invests in education. In addition to the inflation correction of around 2%, there is therefore also EUR 270 million for primary education. On top of that, this Minister will ensure that all the money that is leaking away does not end up in the teachers' wallet when it is intended for that purpose, which is now going to go to super-statutory regulations and hassles, will soon end up in the teachers' wallet. This can lead to a very substantial increase in wages. That's what teachers are gonna notice. I'm super proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u194	I don't think you're gonna be of any use to a teacher, I'm just gonna say it in a subtlety. In my view, these teachers, united in the PO-Front, have the same PO-Front in which the unions and employers are also united, clearly indicated what is needed. I would once again ask Mr Rog how these very clear demands of the PO-Front, in which, once again, the teachers are united through PO in action, relate to his statement that it will actually be okay. 'Cause that's what I hear him say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u195	I can't say it's gonna be okay. The teachers have now indicated that they are going to strike, despite the extra money we are making available. I can only say that the appeal was picked up from the educational field, despite the fact that it was not in election programmes. We have taken this very seriously. In addition to the inflation correction, there will be a further EUR 270 million. We are going to realize more money, which is not now in the teachers' wallet but is being made available for it. There will be more money to invest in less workload. I'm so proud of that. I'm glad we can take these steps. Maybe it's not enough for everyone. That might be possible, but this cabinet is taking these steps. I think we should be happy with what we're doing here. At least I'm so proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u196	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr President, thank you. I also take care of the portfolio of my esteemed colleague Van der Molen. We are a trading country, a country of words and deeds, a country of hardcore professionals. The MBO supplies those professionals. Tilemakers, furniture makers, hairdressers like Emmy, who have shown many Chamberlains before Princess Day, plumbers, carers: they are good in their profession. We should appreciate that a little more. During the WorldSkills competitions, Pien Hoveling won the world's best window. Fantastic that we have such toppers, because we really need these professionals. The economy is attracting. Think of the extra hands needed in care, technology, police, construction and catering. It is important to encourage cooperation between industry and institutions with vocational education. If there are no internships or are offered in the care, for example because of the pressure, you can't expect to get much more hands on them. You'll end up in a vicious circle. In order to strengthen this connection with practice, the CDA would like to ask the Minister if there are any further possibilities to further stimulate this, for example by increasing funding for bbl-spots. Does she see thresholds that we can remove, so that more teachers from the business community get in front of the classroom? In addition to training for the labour market, the MBO also has a role to play in the formation of students, in the teaching of citizenship. As far as the CDA is concerned, citizenship should not only be applied in the field, but also in a broad social sense, for example for critical opinions on politics and social media. The CDA therefore advocates a clear place for citizenship in the curriculum, given by specialist teachers, in which the students are involved. Then I'll get to green school. As of 1 January 2019, the integration of green education must be a fact. If CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u200	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u201	I assume this was about the previous cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u202	No, just finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u203	Okay, I'll finish my cube first. As CDA, we're following this critically. The green education is under pressure, as is the technical vmbo. Financially, more will come into the move than just the 10 million in the coalition agreement. The position of Wageningen University also needs attention. That is why we call on the Minister to clarify the finances and the content of the Spring Paper, or as much earlier as possible, so that cooperation with industry can be well secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u204	I fully agreed with what my colleague Kuik said about secondary vocational education. I am just curious to see how she looks at the problem of the education agreement, which is actually an unnecessary burden and which hinders students' legal status more often than promotes it. Her predecessor/colleague Harry van der Molen was very keen and critical of it as I was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u205	Great. I just came up with that. I agree with my colleague from GroenLinks. As far as the CDA is concerned, this education agreement is an example of an unnecessary rule. This is actually only used by the school to show that the student is registered and does not have a pedagogical-eductic function but takes time to draw up. So my question is also whether we can't abolish it. Then I come to the switch from Mbo to Hbo. Many MBOs cannot now simply switch to HBO because of the pre-training requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u206	Mr. Beertema, you've got a taste for it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u207	I'm a spokesperson for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u208	Yeah, I can see that. No one's missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u209	Okay. Can we not abolish that education agreement? 'Cause that's just proof that you're registered. I mean, I find it all so easy. In Rotterdam we recently saw that there is an education where all students are enrolled but where no one ever shows up. Now that's trouble. Do you have a solution for that? What's a school supposed to do? All students enrolled, but they never come. And they'll get a diploma at the end. That's the weird part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u210	The exams just need to be made. So the results will certainly have to deliver the students. I am certainly open to seeing what unnecessary rules we can remove from the teachers too. That is an important point. Of course, it is also up to institutions and schools themselves to motivate those students to sit in those lecture halls.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u211	College halls, classes it is. I think it's all very gratuitous. I think it's all very open doors. Of course, the MBO is very important, but we all know that here, but there are big problems, especially in the big cities, and I do not hear you say anything about that except that the education agreement should only be abolished for a moment. We are dealing with huge groups that have social and social problems. They're in the MBO and they're screwing up the MBO for a whole gutter section, especially for those professionals we want to deliver, because they're quitting because they don't want to work in this huge urban chaos. Say something about that, because it's not all that nice and nice in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u212	I do not hear the appreciation of the MBO in this story of Mr Beertema. If he had listened carefully, he would know that we are paying attention to the integration of MBO into the labour market and that we are also looking at how to ensure that MBOs are properly trained and can make a good transition to HBO. We now see that some of those MBOs cannot make that switch because of generic requirements that in practice lead to crazy situations. I am referring, for example, to the situation that when an MBO student wants to transfer technology to HBO commercial economy, this is not possible, whereas a MBO student baker is allowed to do so. Unless you take a test. As a result, a large part of the MBOs cut off and doesn't flow through. The CDA calls on the Minister, in addition to these generic requirements, to create the possibility of tailor-made work and to lay it down at the rocks and colleges for more opportunities for those MBOs. It also fits better with the introduction of electives in the MBO and the arrangements to have MBOs better supervised by the colleges. Mr. Chairman. Since the introduction of the loan system, the number of MBOs going to HBO has been reduced. The Minister has already announced that he will soon come forward with a bill to halve the tuition fees in the first year of study. That saves students €1,000. We hope that we can discuss the bill as soon as possible, so that the threshold for MBOs to make the switch to HBO becomes lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u213	This coalition reduces tuition fees for the first year in higher education, but notes that this can be paid out of raising, actually making the "ten-year" interest rate in the loan system. That is why the student associations already speak of a cigar from their own box. If students suffer from, for example, loan anxiety, do you not think that this measure will not increase the fear of borrowing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you for the interruption, because I am glad to be able to clarify this. Of course, that comparison doesn't add up. Yes, interest is raised, but it is not wrong to encourage students to borrow less, but those €1,000 get students for tuition fees. We are very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u215	I think raising interest rates is not so much an incentive to borrow less. You don't do loans for higher education for fun, but because you have to pay for college. If interest goes up, you'll have to pay more, or pay longer in practice. If you grow up in a low-income family, your parents often have a low education; we are talking about this group, then a debt of tens of thousands of euros, on which you may also have to pay higher interest rates, can be a huge mental barrier. In the first year you pay €1,000 less in tuition fees, but I don't think this is going to really contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u216	As a CDA, we are proud to have managed this, because €1,000 matters. At the pabo you also pay €1,000 less in the second year. The comparison with interest runs smoothly, because it is only in 2060 that there is an equal level. I hope that the SP is also pleased that the CDA has managed to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u217	The SP would have preferred that the CDA had kept the electoral promise in the field of the basic grant. If what Mrs Kuik says is true, then I understand that the passage in the government agreement that the ten-year interest rate, by my mind, yields 225 million, does not support the same amount of tuition fees. I did read it that way, namely that these amounts are comparable. If that is not the case, Mrs Kuik has a problem in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u218	It continues until 2060. I would also have liked to have the support of the SP in redesigning the loan system, but the SP was not there during the negotiations. Nothing has been done about it in the counter-budget presented by the SP. Mr Futselaar cannot blame me for not getting this done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr. Chairman. This is really not correct, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u220	Wait a minute, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u221	I didn't read this in the SP counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u222	One more time, Mr. Futselaar, because I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u223	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about our election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u224	I thought you were so angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah, but that's my natural base.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u226	But it's true what I'm saying. It wasn't in the counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u227	No, but I understand that this is an invitation to still come to a basic grant. If Mrs Kuik wishes to cooperate with us in this respect, we can deal with it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u228	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u229	Mr. Chairman. I would have preferred to have done it earlier when we were negotiating for a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u230	We've had that discussion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. Then the english. English is advancing in higher education. The research of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences shows that educational institutions often only do something. Students start petitions because their education suddenly becomes completely English-speaking, but the English of the teachers is mainly coal English. The cabinet has been instructed to monitor the use of English more strictly. When will the Minister come forward with proposals to this end and look at the recommendations of the Academy? From English to Dutch. The International Association for Neerlandistiek argues that the farmer should be involved in Dutch language and culture. We'd like to hear the Minister's response to their report. Is she prepared to table this with her colleagues in the Foreign and Economic Affairs Committee, if necessary? Then the stakes of the money for research. In the case of investment in research, the CDA can support the focus on beta technology and investment in practical research by colleges. At HBO, however, we do believe that the focus should be on connecting to the labour market and less on expanding research. As far as we are concerned, this can also be seen in the distribution of research resources between colleges and universities. As far as the National Science Agenda is concerned, we would like to focus on the themes of technology and society and building blocks of existence in line with beta technology. The moral issues associated with a society that is increasingly interwoven with technology also require urgent attention. We are therefore asking for a further financial impact soon. Finally. In the Netherlands, there are more than 2.5 million people who have difficulty reading and writing. That is a serious handicap in a world of internet, e-mail and social media. As a CDA, we are very pleased with the additional resources for low literacy. A low-threshold bet with a wide range is important to us. Care for us is still whether SZW and VWS continue to advance with OCW to contribute together to Tel along with Taal. Is the Minister going to bet on this? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u232	Thank you for the speech. I was just wondering. Between the abolition of the loan system and the €1,000 there are three years of students who have paid the full price. We heard about that yesterday. Is the CDA planning to fix something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u233	Yes. Of course, a measure has already been taken for this. They have €2,000 to use for education after their training. So we're very happy about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u234	No, Mr. Beertema. You're kidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u235	One very brief detail question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u236	Really? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u237	'Cause it's only about 5 million. 5 million has been allocated to further reduce this low literacy. Would it not be wise, I ask Mrs Kuik, to explicitly reserve the 5 million now for those organisations that are developing digital resources, which have been there for a long time, but which can be made even better because they greatly increase the target audience?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u238	That seems to me to be a good way forward, but I am also, of course, looking at the proposals put forward by the Minister. But I don't think this is a crazy idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u239	Then we'll give that to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mr. Chairman. The ideal of education for me as a SP'er is more than just preparing people for a job or a society. Education should also serve as a correction to an unfair distribution in that society, a correction to unequal opportunities, unequal starting points. A way to bridge the gap that some children have had since childhood. But education doesn't do what it should. Education can't do what it should do anymore. It's even worse. Sometimes education even increases the differences. Less chance of a higher degree if you have lower-educated parents. Less up-to-top advice, up to five times less. A higher chance of switching to a lower education course during secondary school. More often you leave the MBO without a diploma. And the chances of you going to HBO are getting smaller soon if your parents haven't done that in the past. Lifelong learning may sound fun, but the preliminary reality is that people who have already had a nice education know how to find the jars to more. The difference made once at a young age is rarely made, especially when your parents are not born in the Netherlands. I'm not making this up myself. This is a modest list from the State of Education, supplemented by a piece from the Macro Economic Recognition. And the central question the SP has for this cabinet is: how can you get education to do what education should do again? What are you going to do about this inequality spread throughout education? Then I don't expect a story about anything less cutting back on educational disadvantages, a little less testing or anything else, but a fundamental story. Why? This inequality does not affect a child here or a parent there. This inequality affects the future of our society. Is the cabinet prepared to review the policy on all these points and come up with a more ambitious plan than the previous cabinet has ever done? This education is doing it with pain in my heart. I'm not saying what it should do anymore. You can't blame teachers for that. Every day, masters and teachers fight to get the best out of children, whether they're 4 or 24, whether they're just learning to write or after a considerable number of years of getting their entrance training on the MBO. Or promote in philosophy. I'm giving it to the minister to do: get in the car right now. We knew that every minister would have to deal with PO in action; the group of brave masters and girls who turn education upside down with their demands for fair pay and less workload. The group of masters and teachers who managed in no time what rarely happened: a strike in education. They're not here yet, but I'm sure of one thing: they're gonna win this. They deserve all our support. It is not for nothing that we are presenting the proposal today in 'Choose for education, not for large capital, and let the big banks pay for school banks'. Before the legendary strike I was just talking about, something leaked out of the coalition agreement. This has been the case quite regularly in the past six months. Half a billion would be added to reduce the workload in education, by smaller classes and by more hands in the classroom. The leak was, in retrospect, remarkably positive for the government parties. After all, 500 million became a big drop less and the money is not coming for another three years. Does the government share the SP's assessment that the masters and teachers were presented with a very rosy picture on the eve of their strike? Why don't we just bring this investment forward? The problems are now: everyone says so. They are now asking for a solution and not in 2012. What will happen with the salary negotiations now? The financial space provided by the cabinet is simply too small and also goes at the expense of teachers who are now at home. It will also cause them to be announced yet additional educational actions, in which we will not surprise you if the masters and misses will wholeheartedly support. Because we all know where too little attention can be paid to pupils at an early age: greater differences in later age and inequality of opportunity. You can count on richer parents to be willing to buy some attention. They have a choice that other parents unfortunately don't have. That cost money? Yeah, it costs money. It's not cheap, but the SP prefers to invest in our children, in our society and in our future, than we invest in big companies, banks, foreign shareholders and tax services. I'd rather have a school bank than a Wall Street bank. Is that really such a crazy choice? At least we're making it today. 700 million extra for more salary and less workload in primary education, paid by... we have given you the choice. banks or large companies. I can now announce that we will also continue our small class struggle against plundering classes. Then a new minister also sees himself confronted with a VO in action, an MBO in action, a WW in action and an HBO in action. How is the cabinet going to relate to all these groups? How are you going to ensure that the objections, tips and suggestions of all these teachers are taken seriously and find their way to the policy rooms in the ministry? Because I can't say it often enough. The added value of these people in practice is indispensable. What signal does the cabinet send by not mentioning movement education at all in the coalition agreement? Mr. Heerema was talking about it, too. The previous cabinet did not do anything about it, but at least took the trouble to write it down. This is not only important for children to get in contact with sport at a young age. It's also good for obesity. It is good for the development of children's brains and, moreover, if it is given by qualified teachers, it is also a way to relieve the workload of other teachers. We have an initiative legislative proposal ready: three hours a week teaching by specialist teachers. But what are the ambitions of this cabinet? What, for example, is going to be done in the field of swimming lessons? This is an increasing problem, especially in the large cities of a water-rich country like the Netherlands. I would like to hear a response to the motion tabled by my colleague Mr Van Nispen in the sports budget. He was kindly referred to this budget. Who am I to deny him that? What perspective do we offer to the hardworking teachers in secondary schools in our country? A substantial budget discount is granted: thanks to the negligence of VVD and PvdA in the previous period.................................................................................................................................................................................... That's and will still be a cut in the budget, isn't it? No one knows exactly how, but schools need to be more efficient. And when they become effective, they don't get that money themselves, but they go back to the state treasury. Then there is also a discount in view of the decreasing number of pupils. I ask the Minister today how sustainable that model is, because the buildings are there, the teachers are in service, but the budget is falling. Well, then it's at the expense of education, isn't it? Should we not, in the long term, get rid of this link, or at least the undesirable effects? I'm asking that as a very open question. Especially with declining numbers of apprentices in mind, I think that this problem is going to come back even more in the coming years. Then yes, really this is also the place for some announced compliments. I have said regularly over the last few months, when I made a proposal and I was told once again that there was no cabinet and I had to wait a while, that I would give the compliments if we got what we wanted. For example, MBO funding deserves these compliments. At least they seem that way for now. I don't want to be too positive either. For years the SP has been resisting the so-called cascade cost: less and less money if a student has more time to get his degree. Current education does not fit in with the way the SP looks at education. Besides, it doesn't fit the MBO, the MBO that everyone should give a chance. The reality is that sometimes it simply cannot be done in four years. Then an extra year or two is a small investment for something that benefits both a student and a society for a lifetime. You should reward institutions instead of fines. I was in Amsterdam on a rock. We saw Yahya there, a boy who literally finished his education with blood, sweat and tears for at least two thirds. But some time later, he lost his job. It was too big a step towards the labour market. That's a shame. First, for Yahya himself, who finally had a piece of paper and a job, secondly, for his supervisors, Sonja and Gijs, who had really done everything they could to get him out of his bed early in the morning if he had slept and thirdly for the government, because now he was at home, while the bond of trust he had built with his supervisors Sonja and Gijs was an essential part of the success of finally getting that diploma. Wouldn't it be a good idea if we facilitated institutions to accompany young people who start working in the first few years just a little longer, that they could make use of the trust that they have built up with their supervisor for a little longer? I believe that we can combat the dismissal of young people. Once again, this is something that benefits not only young people themselves, but also society. For example, let's start with the boys and girls who have just completed entrance training or level 2. Some will remember how I almost ran through the room cheering when my proposal for a maternity leave for students was adopted. I had submitted this together with Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA. That was a breakthrough that could prevent young girls from leaving unnecessarily when they turn out to be pregnant. The former minister's answer was briefly nothing three times. She was gonna talk again. She already did, so that's not really a change. My question to the new minister is: what are you going to do? You made a brief announcement in a letter, but that was just not concrete enough for me. You have the support of the Chamber. These young girls need your support now. This cabinet has made a minister responsible for the regions. That's another compliment. This is a development that the SP welcomes. Now I was only in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen and there the education in secondary school threatens to sink through the bottom. If the Zwin College disappears, which was a considerable risk for some time, for quite a few Zeeland young people the real chance of continuing Dutch education disappears, because who goes there for two hours and travels back two hours in a bus on the way to school? These people pay taxes and are therefore entitled to decent education at a decent distance from their homes. Besides, this is already a shrinking area. We can't take another blow to the habitat in the area. The schools disappear, the parents disappear. The parents disappear, the society disappears, more and more facilities and companies disappear. Now there is a rescue plan, but that depends partly on a substantial contribution from the municipality and province. I am curious about it, because I do not think we are doing that in the rest of the Netherlands. Then why in Zeeland-Flanders? Moreover, I am very curious to see a broader view of this cabinet on shrinkage, also in relation to education, because I also suspect that we will be discussing it more often in the coming years. And then I'm really almost done with the compliments. At appropriate education, the cabinet also announced steps. We are sincerely pleased that an old wish of ours is being fulfilled: the financing of care and education for children with severe multiple disabilities. Before the summer my proposal was rejected, indeed with the communication try again later. That was not necessary, and that is a big deal for a lot of parents who experience unnecessary administrative burdens and worries at their heads, while only wanting to keep their own child in school. The study of learning law is also positive, but we are curious when we can expect the next steps of the cabinet. Finally. For years now, the SP has been fighting here and in many cities and villages against the abuses of this supposed voluntary parental contribution, the contribution that is so voluntary that parents get reminder after reminder if they don't pay, that notes are being hung in the hallway with the names of parents who have or haven't paid and that some schools even use bailiffs to collect money I can't say enough to collect a voluntary parental contribution. Completely mesjogged and not willingly, and I'm done with that. That is why we have joined forces with LAKS, with parents and education, with GroenLinks, with the PvdA to take a first step: mandatory and explicit mention: voluntary. No collection agencies, no bailiffs, no parental contribution for the compulsory curriculum and no second-hand treatment for students whose parents cannot afford it. We will come up with a proposal for this, because this has been going on for far too long. And when can we expect the implementation of our previously adopted motion, together with the PvdA, for a maximum of parental contribution? Because there too, inequality in education is avenging and often very painful. I wish the ministers a great deal of wisdom in the years to come, because they have a wonderful mission: to give education the space to do what masters and teachers love most: to get the best out of children, to get education back to what it has to do and can do: to tackle this inequality. And those odds are there. So: choose our masters and girls, not banks, foreign shareholders and big business. Believe me, they like to have a well-educated workforce. And if they don't think that's important, then as far as we're concerned, they're gonna go away. And I think you would agree with the SP in your heart. So my closing call would be: trade according to your heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u241	Yes, wonderful speech, taken from the heart. It also comes clearly from the heart of Mr Kwint, as we already know him, and that is good to hear. I also think it is fancy that he should be complimenting us where he sees it. But still about the sadness of it, let me just say. Because with all that heart and all those warm words that teachers get from Mr. Kwint... (NL) Mr President, one interruption, can it be introduced a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u242	Yes, of course, as long as it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u243	The final question is of course: what does the teacher have to say that he might have voted for the SP or that he is getting a warm feeling now? After all, what the SP does of course leads to nothing: together with GroenLinks now the anniversary 50 years in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u245	Wonderful plans, the banks, no everyone's gonna pay for those teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u246	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u247	In your own election programme, you don't do it: 1.2 billion is the investment. This cabinet invests 1.9 billion. You don't do anything for vve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u249	Well, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u250	Yeah, that's a really long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u251	My question is, what's the teacher going to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u252	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u253	Let's start with the actual correction: it's 2.1 billion. Then let us continue: I really do not see where the problem is. If you say, "What do we do for teachers?" We have tabled a proposal today: EUR 700 million of banking tax, EUR 700 million for primary education. If you're asking what a teacher has to say about that, I'm saying, well, until it's a majority, it's not that crazy. But if you just join us: it's there, I'll be right over to you, if you put your name underneath it, then I think we can make a fantastic step for the teachers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u254	But we have also been to Mr Kwint and the SP to ask if they would like to participate in the reign of this country. But then it's categorically no, we're just never gonna do that. And then once... Isn't it? Are you still in? You look so surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u255	I am, but finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u256	You're just out of the game. You're out of the way. And when a coalition agreement has finally been reached, then suddenly you know how to tell it all much better and then things have to change. Doesn't that help anyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u257	Also for the coalition agreement I had really good plans. I shall put a few more to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u258	They're also in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u259	What D66 is displaying here is a totally bizarre concept of democracy. It's like thinking, like the political process's gonna end when a government agreement's been reached. "You're on the sidelines," he says. This shows a great deal of dedain for the debate we are holding here in the Chamber. That is not the sideline; we are here alone debating, unless you say now: it does not matter what an opposition Member submits, because we have already reached a government agreement, so we are not looking at it. That is a very strange concept of democracy! I thought the low point at D66 was reached when they were going to abolish the referendum, but this is still a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u260	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u261	What a very curious concept of democracy that you let yourself choose on a programme, when you never intended at all to make that happen by taking responsibility for once. This is a very strange concept of democracy, which unfortunately is becoming increasingly important. That is why it is so difficult to find those who take responsibility and also want to take difficult measures. No, SP doesn't have to do that. Everything is very simple, there's plenty of money for everyone and for everything and if necessary we rob a bank and then it's there, but it doesn't work like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u262	Mr. Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u263	Yes, it is more critical than I intended, because I think Mr Kwint is just a very nice man. I wish he was really involved, but he doesn't, and that's why... I don't have a question anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u264	You miss Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u265	Exactly. My conclusion is, you don't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u266	I do have a response to Mr Van Meenen's non-asked question. The invitation to that amendment still stands. We can make that choice today. And rob a bank? We are increasing the tax on banks a little more, but that is not really the sector that has it most heavily in the country, I think. I think it's a lot harder to be a master or a teacher and I want to make him an offer here. If Mr Van Meenen still thinks it is a good idea, then I will gladly get my name out of the amendment and then I will congratulate him when he finally manages to get 700 million extra for our masters and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u267	Thank you very much, Mr Kwint. I now turn to Mr Futselaar, also on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the last uncomfortable truths of my colleague, Mr Kwint, it might be nice for some parties if I also start positively. The millions that this coalition invests extra in research are a good thing, and that deserves compliments. I want that said here. The next step is to make sure that this money ends up in the right place. As far as we are concerned, as far as the SP is concerned, science has to decide for itself. In general, we are in favour of a large increase in the first stream of money. That saves in the application circus and that also reduces the workload in scientific education. Moreover, it helps to guarantee the independence of our campuses, because unfortunately, the influence of a select number of multinationals is not limited to the tax policy of this cabinet. It can also be found elsewhere in society. Mr. Chairman. The memories Mrs Westerveld collected of her student activism also made me remember. It will be about 18 years since I was in this building for the first time and was dragged out that same day, with a group of other students, because we had interrupted a committee meeting in which the higher education plan 2000 was discussed. At that time, the excuse for austerity was "scale enlargement." That would solve everything, and that would cut you down, if that's what you're talking about. This has brought us, among other things, the University of Inholland. Today "efficiency" is the fashion word and here too there is actually no explanation or interpretation behind it. And that is a pity, Mr President, because Dutch scientific research and education is already the most efficient in the world and a consequence of this measure is that it will take until 2021 for the investments made in higher education, including the study advance, to exceed the savings that are still in place. In fact, this means that a generation of students who have had to give up their basic grant will not see anything of their investment in practice. They are caught twice: they have to pay €10,000 in debt, but the promised investments are undone by the cuts on the other hand. That is extremely tragic. Mr President, the reduction in tuition fees is also proudly announced. That is good, but if on the other hand the interest rate on loans is increased, then this too is a cigar from its own box. Now that interest rates are historically low, borrowing seems relatively painless, but we have no reason to believe that this will remain so. In the 1990s, interest was close to 10%, and in the 1980s, interest even exceeded it. Is it not fair, I ask the Minister, at least to set an interest ceiling? Mr. Chairman. Democraticisation in higher education is a great asset, and it is good that opportunities in this area have been strengthened in recent years, but the SP sees shortcomings. We see that in practice training committees do not always function properly and even do not exist in some training courses. In our view, one of the ways of strengthening these courses is to provide a form of compensation for members of those committees: hours for lecturers, tuition fees or even points for students. This is not always the case, particularly in colleges, and we believe that this strengthens the non-binding nature of the training committee. The second concern when it comes to democratizing is what we used to call a university newspaper or college newspaper and what is now often a digital platform in practice. We see these under pressure. As far as the SP is concerned, an independent form of reporting is a prerequisite for any democracy. This is true at municipal level, at national level, but also at institutional level. Democraticisation of higher education will not work without that independent press. The pressure in higher education is not only felt in finance. Flex contracts, ongoing competition for research money and growing student numbers also make it difficult for our teachers. Especially in the wo is the pressure of work making victims. Last year I spoke to a training director at a technical university, certainly not a SP'er, who said: "The situation here is untenable. I can literally see my colleagues going under." Are these incidents? No. Anyone who sees the workload at universities can see that there is a big and growing problem here, and I would like to hear from the Minister how she intends to do something about it. Mr. Chairman. The workload is not limited to personnel. We are getting more and more disturbing reports about the consequences of all the demands that are being made today to young people. Debts due to the loan system, multiple selection moments to be achieved, secondary jobs, extra-curricular activities needed for your CV, additional internships: the pressure on students has become very high due to a build-up of measures and societal trends. I know this is not undisputed, because I asked questions earlier about research into increasing pressure among students. At that time the then VVD spokesperson then asked similar questions, but with the intention that it was worrying that there were students who didn't feel any pressure. Mr President, I fear that this is an example of what goes on in VVD courses for humour. I would like to urge the successors in this area to have a talk with study advisors in higher education, with student psychologists who have months of waiting times and especially with students themselves, and perhaps then the VVD can once again transcend the level of cheap bar talk in this area. The Minister has just answered the questions I asked about this, but I would like to hear from her what she thinks she is going to do about this problem, because I suspect that we will talk about this more often in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u269	Thank you very much, Mr Futselaar. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u270	Mr. Chairman. Nearly forty years ago, yes, it's unbelievable, I started at the age of 7. I became a teacher to work on the opportunities of young people. More than five years ago, for exactly the same reason, I became a Member of Parliament for D66, working on opportunities, and that is why I am pleased and proud to be able to contribute, on behalf of my party, to a government agreement in which much attention is paid to education and opportunities. This government invests 1.9 billion in education. That is the biggest investment in the coalition agreement and D66 is very proud of it. Today we are talking about how we can make education even stronger and more accessible, in which we want to invest and how policies are adjusted to offer opportunities. The main task of education is to give everyone, regardless of their background, an equal opportunity in society and to ensure that everyone can participate and develop any talent. And we have talent in the Netherlands. Mrs Kuik mentioned it and I could have left it out, but I'm just gonna say it again. This turned out to be the case during the international WorldSkills last October. Pien Hoveling became the best floorer and Wilhelm Scholten was fourth among the tilemakers. By the way, I'm gonna be remodeling my bathroom soon. So I'm gonna go see if I can get his phone number. Lennard Bucks and Berend van de Donk gained fifth place in mobile robotics. In this way we are blessed in our country with many very good professionals. Professionals who can make the most beautiful things with fascinating agility, speed and attention to detail. In order to maintain and further promote this, investment in technical VMBO is urgently needed. After all, industry is crying out for technical professionals. We've seen that again this week. With this money, schools can finance the practical rooms and the tools they need and get professionals for the classroom. As a result, the technical vmbo will keep an attractive and high-quality offer. My question to the Minister is, of course,: how will the Minister fill this out? Is that through the lump sum or are we gonna tag this ear? That is a discussion that goes on, of course, but I am particularly curious to see how we are going to ensure that it actually ends up in those technical schools. They have a difficult existence at the moment, particularly in shrinking areas. I like to hear that. In addition, shortened pathways for side-intromers to become educational and didactical skills are essential. More pros for the class. What is the Minister going to do to promote this? Mr. Chairman. With the investments in early and pre-school education, with which we prevent language retardation, we offer children an equal basis. At least we're gonna try. Fortunately, the austerity plans of the previous cabinet have been reversed in relation to the education deficit policy. With an investment and an increase in the Municipal Fund, children who are lagging behind, but also highly gifted children, can develop as much as possible. How is the Minister going to use this investment so that the money becomes available quickly? Mr. Chairman. Personal attention is essential when a child grows up. At school, a teacher, a class assistant, an intern, a janitor can make a difference to a child. The investment in primary education, rising to 450 million euros per year, ensures that schools invest in the fight against workload through more hands in the classroom or more time for teachers or smaller classes. Of course, I'm very happy about that. But the previous cabinet has... this is still another story I'm coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u271	Then I'll go to Mr. Kwint first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u272	Mr Van Meenen rightly says that extra attention for a child at a young age can make a very big difference. He also rightly linked this to smaller classes and more support in the classroom. How does he feel about the kids waiting three more years until that money is available to put that in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u273	It's getting up and it's starting to be limited. My party has no other experience with what happens with extra money. We have done so regularly in recent years. I always got the question like no other: how do we make sure it ends up okay? Or sometimes even the reproach sounded: it doesn't end well. One of the things is that you have to have a good plan, that you need to know what you're doing to really make sure that the money ends up in the right place. That is why I understand that there has been a choice to build up these resources, to ensure that this is also the aim of the SPD that it will end up in a good way. In recent years, the SP has heard enough about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u274	Certainly, but let us not pretend that these solutions are not available. We can decide, for example, to remove teachers' salaries from the lump sum. Our parties have jointly drawn up an initiative law, which lists all kinds of measures to ensure that this investment does reach the classroom. Then isn't the only story why only 10 million will be invested next year in the fight against workload: we haven't finished the plans yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u275	Yes, but as far as the salaries Mr Kwint is talking about are concerned, that money will be available next year. Then it's the full pound: 270 million. About the smaller classes. We know there's a shortage of teachers right now. Like Mr Kwint, I have also looked at the site of PO in action. There were about 1,000 reactions in a week. That sounds a lot, but you can also relate it to the number of primary schools. What struck me was that it was mainly a question of replacement. Replacement is very hard to get. That is why I am pleased that we are finally taking measures within the framework of the WWZ. I hope that Mr Kwint has also come to the conclusion that this is important. You might want to make those classes smaller. I'd really like that, too. The word "ploofklas" has been nominated for Word of the Year. So vote in particular, let me just say in between, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u276	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u277	But then you must have the solution at your fingertips. There was also a build-up of resources in our common proposal. He's here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u279	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I support the Minister in his appeal, which I am now doing myself to the parties to start working on plans to spend the money properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mr Van Meenen sets out quite clearly the dilemma that the whole education system is facing. People do not choose because the profession is not always attractive for different reasons. I would like to mention, for example, the reward and the workload. This workload is made much worse by a shortage of teachers, so that people again do not choose that profession. That's how you're in a spiral down. That's what we're trying to break through. But then you're gonna start with at least one of those legs of it hard? Then you say: we are now investing that amount in reducing the workload, so that we can now do something about, for example, failure and replacement, so that in the future more people will also choose this profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u281	Yes, but now investing in reducing the workload also requires a clear plan of what that should be. So at least I'd like to give that space to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u282	I would like to build on the subject of workload. Last year, in this Chamber, the Van Meenen/Ypma motion on the reduction of teaching duties was adopted. It may be the fine print and my bad eyes, but I do not think I have read it back in the coalition agreement or in a budget either. I would very much like to hear a reflection from Mr Van Meenen on that. How does Mr Van Meenen judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u283	I shall return to this subject in my own contribution. That motion has been passed. I believe that this motion can and should also be carried out in one form or another. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u284	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u285	Fine. Proceed, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u286	The previous cabinet left a mandate of almost half a billion euros per year. This cabinet is turning back most of it. What remains is achieved by more efficient education. Too much money for education is still not spent on what it is meant for: the classroom and the teacher. I would ask the Ministers, of course, to spare the primary process. I'd like to hear from them how they're going to do that. In addition, many investments are hidden in the budget, because there is no policy implementation yet. We would like to receive a timetable from the ministers showing when the various investments will be carried out in 2018. Mr. Chairman. This coalition agreement is not only about money, fortunately, I would say, but also about many policy changes, some of which have already passed through to promote even better education and equality of opportunity. The transition between primary and secondary school is now a decisive step for children. Since the age of 12, children have been separated into levels. Some children will benefit if this selection time is postponed or becomes less important. The macro economic recognition of the CPB shows the recent development that in the Netherlands the weakest-performing 9-year-old students are among the international top, but that the weakest-performing 15-year-olds are among the international middle class. The strongest performers are only going to score better between their 9th and their 15th. Somewhere in these years something goes wrong, especially with the weakest performers. I would like to see the Minister's reflection on that. How can we take good action to combat this scourge? I hope that some of these measures will be included in the coalition agreement, such as the broad bridge classes and the experiments with 10-14 schools. They can ensure a smooth transition and respond to the personal learning needs of pupils. In the coming years, my party will at least ensure that this policy is sufficiently effective and that there is sufficient support for that weak-performing pupil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u287	Mr Van Meenen talks about the transition from primary school to secondary school. There is, of course, also an important transition from care to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u288	I'm sorry, about...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u289	From shelter to education. D66 has incorporated some very nice ideas into the electoral programme. I have often heard Mr Van Meenen make fine speeches about this in recent years. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen if he thinks that the coalition agreement will also allow us to work on this in the coming years. I myself read so little about it in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u290	I think so, because the investments in early and early school education are, of course, intended to further improve the connection with primary education. In this situation, moreover, it is mainly a question of creating space at local level, i.e. in municipalities, to make the choices that one wants to make locally. I have always said that I do not believe in blueprints; I do not believe that we should do the same everywhere. So, yeah, I think that space is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u291	Thank you. Mr. Kwint, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u292	Speaking of inequality of opportunity, you can see that accidents are most likely to occur at the points of contact. Let me just call them that. These switching points occur when switching from one level to another: someone wants to try at a higher level or flows to a lower level. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that in the coming years we will really have to do more than has been done in recent years, and that it is really necessary for us to come up with a plan for the whole spectrum of opportunities at all these different points of interconnection, upflow, downflow, you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u293	There are also a number of these measures in this coalition agreement. They are therefore about improving the connection of the VVE to primary education. They're about the 10- to 14-year-olds. They're going to think about the advice and the test again. They're going over the wider bridge classes. They're about the customized degree, you name it. They're about selection in higher education. I think that this coalition agreement already contains quite a few of the measures that were included in the various opportunities agendas of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u294	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u295	Sure, but don't you think it's important to look at this in conjunction? The problems that arise when moving from one level to another, to one side or another, are often repeated. Of course, there are good loose measures, but I do think that a broader approach could really prevent accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u296	Well, I can only share that. It also comes from a single vision, but I think it is now also up to the rulers to bring that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u297	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u298	Mr. Chairman. Later, in secondary school, in the exams, the talents of individual students can also be better taken into account. This coalition agreement makes it possible for students to take courses at a higher level and take examinations in them. The experiments with these tailor-made diplomas offer the student access to pre-determined further training courses. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we can then focus on improving computational education, because the calculation test will be abolished. The question has already been asked by Mr Rog: can the Minister promise that the calculation test on the vwo already this year will no longer count? Mr. Chairman. Practice education should remain a separate and full-fledged type of school. Does the Minister support the fact that practical education has its own function and function in the provision of education, as it leads vulnerable young people to the labour market and, fortunately, to the MBO? Is the Minister prepared to maintain the national admission criteria for practical education in this context? D66 is very concerned about medicalisation in education. Within the current education system of monitors, performance and excel many children are excluded. If a child has behavioral or learning problems, at least in our eyes, is taken too quickly to a medical diagnosis, to a treatment or to a medicine. This causes an inflation of psychiatric disorders. Education should be more inclusive as far as we are concerned. In this context, it is important to look first at a pedagogical solution and possibly, as an extreme, final step, at a medical solution, so that children are less affected by fear and the idea that they are not good enough at school. So focus on what a child can do instead of what it has. How does the Minister look at this problem and what can we do about it? From my own experience I know that teaching is the most beautiful profession in the world, but unfortunately that is not experienced by everyone at the moment. What all the "in action" actions have made clear is that there is an enormous strengthening of a self-conscious profession. I can only be satisfied with that. Throughout the field of education, teachers, pupils and parents join forces. In my memory, we've never seen that before in the field of education. I like to see it, because as I always say to young people, you have to get involved in politics, because politics interferes with you too. The "in action" structures also offer opportunities for a teacher register with support, which is actually of, for and by teachers. At present, this is not enough. The coalition agreement states that this is a tough demand. It certainly is for D66. I'm gonna ask the Minister how he's gonna work this out. He's already lifted a tip from the veil, but I'd like to hear more about it these days. As I said before, this coalition agreement is structurally investing 270 million in the salaries of primary school teachers. Moreover, the money released during collective bargaining can be extra invested, which has already been the subject of discussion. From this point on, I say that governments and trade unions must also assume their responsibilities in the collective bargaining that is to take place. Salary alone is not a solution to the challenges; this also involves the investment of 450 million structurally in the reduction in working pressure. With this investment we give the teacher time, space and support. This will enable that teacher to work on the development of his education and of himself. This makes the work a more respected and attractive profession and that is important to reduce the shortage of teachers. In order to give room to schools in a teacher's disease, substitute teachers are excluded from the flex law. This makes it easier to use a raid force. I've seen on the site of PO in action that this is a big problem. Of course, we already knew that, but then you'll see it happen again in front of your eyes. We should not have children sent home in the Netherlands as soon as a teacher is ill. My question is when this arrangement will enter into force. For D66 space and confidence in education is of great importance. Educational institutions should be more accountable to the people for whom they really exist, such as students, students, parents, teachers and partners in their environment, rather than always to that government. Therefore, the quality agreements are made by the schools themselves with all of these stakeholders; therefore, horizontally, rather than vertically with the government. In higher education and in MBO, thanks to D66, teachers and students have the right to consent to what happens to the money through participation. They also have a direct influence on the quality of education. Now, in primary and secondary schools too, the position of the participation council will be strengthened by that right of assent. Less bureaucracy in education is also a goal of this government. As many unnecessary rules as possible are deleted. I was also very pleased with the brochure already mentioned by Mr Heerema, so that there is no unnecessary administrative burden for schools. Similarly, the merger test for primary schools and secondary schools in shrinking areas disappears. In the MBO the so-called cascade scheme is abolished. This is how we stimulate second chances and stack. Another example is the bureaucracy surrounding the education of children who are severely restricted. The parents of these children and the schools have a great deal of red tape to deal with the financing of care and education in this combination. This coalition agreement provides for the financing of this combination to be facilitated, in particular with regard to the care of parents. As far as I am concerned, this is a very urgent matter. Then it's about time. It was already on the agenda for a while: one and a half years ago, my motion for more time for the teacher for education improvement, also tabled by Mrs Ypma of the Labour Party, obtained a majority in the Chamber. D66 still wants this motion to be carried out and is supported in it by the education and students, as again demonstrated by the MBO manifesto in action, VO in action and LAKS. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, teaching is much more than the international average. But more lessons means absolutely no more learning. That's what frontrunners like Finland and Singapore show. In secondary education, both pupils and teachers benefit greatly from a reduction in teaching hours. A standard of hours for all students is by definition in the way of tailor-made work and also creates a high workload among teachers. There is not enough time for good preparation of lessons, developing education, bringing in new developments and tailor-made support for students. This does not currently give the students the education they deserve and need. The exact same applies to the MBO. And although MBO settings have the space to deviate from the hourly standard, they do not or hardly use it. There is too much thought in time and too little in quality. I say it's time for quality! I would like to hear a response from both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u299	On the one hand, we are talking about the workload of teachers. That's one. How many hours do they have to teach and how much time do they have for preparation, evaluation, checking, etc.? On the other hand, we have the position of the students. I understand that Mr Van Meenen would like those students to have fewer hours of lessons. My question is then: what are we going to delete?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u300	I'm not going to answer that. That is what I am asking the ministers. I ask them, in consultation with the field, to see what the possibilities are. At the moment, there are no possibilities. We cannot even ask that question, because there is a standard that will stop that. What I am asking is to continue with that conversation and to involve students, teachers and the curriculum review. Then come back and tell us what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u301	I'm not against exploring the possibilities with each other at all. But I get the impression that D66 wants to have an outcome in front of it, namely that students get less lessons. I wonder in my mind whether what Mr Van Meenen is imposing on us is a desirable world view. Especially because, when he quotes Finland, I am afraid that we are still focusing exclusively on basic skills and we are losing all those other beautiful subjects, such as history, geography, perhaps even philosophy and citizenship. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u302	Mr Rog has apparently read Mr Van Denderen's article, but I must deny what is said in it. It's not about the fact that there's necessarily less teaching. What we're doing right now is we're giving everyone the same thing. But students differ, also in their needs. There's no way we're really giving space to that. It is my belief, also internationally compared, that we teach our students a great deal. But there's no way there's a relationship between how much time and the quality. The OECD also proves this, not only with Finland, but also with Singapore and all kinds of other countries. There is only one relationship, one thing that really improves the quality of education and that is the quality of the teacher. This teacher has insufficient time, he is constantly teaching and has too little time to develop and therefore also to develop his education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u303	Finally, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u304	Of course, we agree that the teacher is a crucial factor. But Mr Van Meenen, whom I know as someone with whom I fight for broad education, is all about basic skills all the time. He draws comparison with other countries only in terms of basic skills, while I am so proud that we in the Netherlands offer so much more in our education. I am so afraid that children will lose that with Mr Van Meenen's plan. I think that's an unwise way. Can Mr Van Meenen respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u305	I don't know where Mr. Rog gets that. I'm not just talking about basic skills at all. I'm very proud of the education, even in all those other parts. My thesis is that we teach a lot, but that our students also prove to be learning little or less than they could. Why is that? Because we don't invest enough in the quality of the teacher. We just don't. I am not working towards an outcome, but my appeal is: let us now dare to send this minister out to do that reconnaissance. Also from the teacher's own call: give us that space. That's all I'm asking right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u306	I am already reassured by Mr Van Meenen when he talks about flexibility. Some kids need a little more, others need a little less. Then you can indeed think about exactly what you do with such an hour standard. I am terribly concerned that the time that is theoretically available if we let go of the hour standard will still be in administrative overhead and meetings. How is Mr Van Meenen going to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u307	One: Fear is a bad counselor. This is the teacher's express wish. Then they may also be called upon to do so. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna take care of it on the left or on the right, even if it's gonna have to be laid down in the law. As far as I am concerned, however, every hour released by a possible modification of the hourly standard must end up with the development of teachers. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u308	If he puts it that way, I would like to think about it with Mr Van Meenen. I do need to be better informed that less contact hours do not lead to less learning. I would like to study the studies on this with Mr Van Meenen. If he can provide me with more data that's a little harder than the average data from this field, I'd like to think along with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u309	Let's start with the NRO Knowledge Roundabout. They don't look enough there. Of course, I'd like to deliver a few things, too. That's not the point. However, there is a lot of research into the relationship between time and quality of education. Believe me, that relationship is extremely weak. There is only one relationship with the quality of education, and that is the quality of the teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u310	I wanted to mention them myself. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u311	Thank you. Then I suggest you move on. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u312	No, definitely not. I'm gonna go to college. Last week we received a letter from the Minister showing that higher education is financially good for it. It appears that universities and colleges of higher education have made preinvestments, as agreed upon when the study advance was introduced. In scientific education, 690 teachers were added last year, even 800 in HBO. This means that working groups and lectures are becoming smaller, that the workload is falling and that there is more room for tailor-made education. In short, these pre-investments therefore benefit the quality of education. That's good to hear. Mr. Chairman. This coalition agreement also takes measures to further improve accessibility. It already came up. We give first-year students a discount of €1,000 on tuition fees. Pabo students get that discount for two years, to increase the number of starting pabo students and thus contribute, as one of the contributions, to counter the teacher shortage. For D66 it is important that students have clarity about the amount of tuition fees and that they do not increase further than according to inflation. I may be considering a motion on this point, but I await the Minister's response first. Mr. Chairman. D66 welcomes the fact that this coalition agreement continues to counter improper selection. In the bachelor phase, a numerus fixus is only allowed if it is well substantiated. The Minister also has the opportunity to block it. Before the master's admission, a task force will be set up to monitor a transparent and fair trial. In addition, each student has been granted the right to pass on at least one master's degree. Mr. Chairman. However, D66 remains critical of selection in general. Nowhere is equal opportunities as important as in education, but this seems to be at odds with some selection methods. Recently, a researcher obtained his PhD on the subject of decentralised selection. This shows that it does not lead to better study results. I'm not surprised. I've been saying for years, not balls, but lottery tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u313	You're gonna have to laugh yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u314	I always have to laugh at my own jokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u315	I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u316	I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u317	Earlier, Mr Van Meenen said that GroenLinks has not ruled for 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u318	No, 25. Along with the SP 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u319	We have even delivered ministers in the first Den Uyl cabinet, perhaps the most progressive government ever in the Netherlands. We also later took responsibility. Together we have set up the current funding system, with the ambition to make it fairer and more affordable. As far as we are concerned, there was no increase in tuition fees, but there would even be a reduction. I am very pleased to hear from Mr Van Meenen that, as far as he is concerned, tuition fees are also the same, namely not raising them and not higher than inflation. I'd also like to sign a motion like this. I spoke about the coalition agreement and so did Mr Futselaar. It is a large cigar, or even a cigar box from a cigar box: the reduction in tuition fees is reimbursed by EUR 250 million in the long term through an increase in interest rates. What does Mr Van Meenen think of this increase in interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u320	It has already been explained very well by Mrs Kuik. Those are two completely different things. The reduction in tuition fees is intended to maximise accessibility and is simply a huge improvement in the situation we knew. This has certainly been achieved by the influence of CDA and Christian Union. The other is about countering excessive borrowing, because that's what there is. For example, more than 50% of students indicate that they also save with the loan, that they borrow extra when they go on vacation, have trips or I know what. That's really not what borrowing is for. By the way, the increase in that loan is still very limited, because also the ten-year state interest rate is now... It is ultimately about a few euros per month more that a student will have to pay back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u321	I honestly do not understand this argument. Mr Van Meenen says that the loan is not intended for other matters than education. I agree with him. But are we going, because some students apparently do...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u322	No, a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u323	... burdening all students with a higher interest rate than is necessary? That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u324	No, if it were, it wouldn't be fair, but it's not a couple of students. Almost 60% of students do this. That's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u325	Finally, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u326	Last remark: I really do not believe that 60% of students invest their money in shares or real estate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u327	The latter may not be, but it will be spared. That is not new at all. That was already happening under the old system. Party loans are also being made. I've seen it with my own kids, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u328	Good. Were you ready, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u329	Yes. They're really nice kids, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u330	Yeah, okay. They all turned out okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u331	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u332	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u333	Are you and your kids okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u334	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u335	I'm so glad to hear it. I'll move on soon, if you don't mind. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants students to be able to develop widely, not only in but also in addition to their studies, for example by doing a year of management or studying abroad temporarily. That is why we agreed in the government agreement that the profiling fund should be expanded and that an internationalisation approach should be put in place, allowing more students to study abroad. The question to the Minister is how she will implement this approach and when we can expect the first results. Mr. Chairman. The students who started in 2015, 2016 and 2017 do not get a discount on their tuition fees, but they are offered a voucher of €2,000. When and how can the students meet this voucher? Is it true that for this group of students the five-year interest rate is maintained? Mr. Chairman. It's a small step from higher education to science. After years of austerity, better times are coming. This cabinet invests EUR 400 million extra annually in research and innovation and EUR 100 million in infrastructure. As far as D66 is concerned, research money is invested along three priorities. First of all, more money must be made available for fundamental research, the research that Ben Feringa won the Nobel Prize with. In addition, there must be more money to young top researchers through the Veni, Vidi and Vici grants. Finally, more money needs to be spent on the National Science Agenda, which can finance socially interesting research. I am glad that these priorities are reflected in the Minister's letter. Can it confirm that these elements will also be reflected in the further development? I am also pleased that the Minister says he wants to invest in the digital research infrastructure. Can I assume that she also means the digital infrastructure of SURF, such as the supercomputer? Finally, I have a question about emancipation. It hasn't been much about that. It's a broad understanding. I am partly pleased with the coalition agreement and the steps that will also be taken for the Ihbti community. The whole Rainbow voting agreement is being implemented. I would like to hear from the Minister how she is going to achieve this and at what time. Can the Minister respond to the reports from Amsterdam that lhbti people there were systematically discriminated against in the 1950s? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u336	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Mrs Westerveld, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u337	I would like to come back to the issue of workload. I also said earlier that we all see here that the workload is high. It's being funded. Mr Van Meenen actually says: yes, but first I would like to wait for good plans from the field, because we see that education money often does not get into the classroom. Let me paraphrase it. Last week we also received the State of Education from the inspection in which it notes that, for example, money from the National Education Agreement has been spent entirely on teachers. So my point is: I think that money is gonna end up okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u338	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u339	The question is: does Mr Van Meenen agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u340	I was kind of glad to see that. It was not only money from the National Educational Agreement, that was also from the autumn agreement. That was better spent than we thought for a long time in this Chamber, so that's only pleasing. But that's really only possible if there's a good plan. I think it is up to the Minister to answer that now. I agree with the fact that we are now choosing not to rush over and wait for plans to be made. There is also something to be done about collective bargaining. I'm really calling the field. There's a strike next week. Okay, fine, that's everybody's right. But let us talk to each other first to make sure that the 700 million that is there gets well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u341	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u342	I am waiting, like Mr Van Meenen, for the Minister's answers. Then perhaps I will draw Mr Van Meenen's jacket on the raising of the amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u343	Then you can prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u344	Mr. Chairman. My jacket can always be pulled, but it doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u345	Mr Kwint, very briefly as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u346	Who rarely has that problem with the jacket. Mr Van Meenen spoke fine words about space and giving confidence to the teachers. As far as I am concerned, I have also heard him speak a little less fine words about investment and that there is now little room for doing something about the amounts. Can we at least make the agreement that, when we find that the plans are ready in the coming months, that money will be brought forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u347	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u348	How much space is there to torment this model?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u349	My signature is also under the coalition agreement. That's all I'm gonna say now. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u350	How short can you be!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u351	Yeah, it's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u352	I like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u353	Certainly Mr Kwint loosens the best in me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u354	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u355	Yes, Chairman, I have that effect on people. Thinking doesn't stop, does it? We are now having a piece of reverse discussion in relation to the discussion we had earlier. I am happy to do so in consultation with the other three coalition parties. At a time when education is about to come up with good plans on how they want to deal with the workload, can the answer never be 'we are not giving money now, because we are waiting for plans'? Then there'll be plans and then we'll wait to give money, because that's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u356	No, the thinking never stops, but there's been a whole period of thought now. That has resulted in something. I would say: let us put that to a good end first. Then we can always start thinking again. My thinking never ends, I'll promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u357	That's nice to see. Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u358	I want to suspend until 2:10 p.m. Then we get the arrangement of work and then a VAO. Then we will continue the debate on the budget of OCW.
