ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Good morning. I'd like to start as soon as you're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	I'm reopening the meeting. In addition, I have the announcement that, unfortunately, Mr Leijten has had to opt out of this debate. So she won't be speaking soon. The next item is the debate on the European summit on 14 and 15 December in the presence of the Prime Minister. You're very welcome. We're getting started. I must also say that you only have to deal with me briefly, because our real President is coming soon. I'm just gonna make the start. That must be a relief. I will soon give the floor to the first speaker, and that is Mr Verhoeven on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. It's also an honor to serve under your command. Thank you. After another eventful Brexit week with first skipped negotiations, Friday finally turned out to be something of a step forward. White smoke from Brussels, we saw, with which the no-deal scenario, the cliff-edge scenario, seems to have passed the chaotic brexit for the time being. This is good news for the Netherlands, because without enough progress in the first phase of the Brexit negotiations, the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom cannot be considered. It is particularly important for a trading country like ours to be able to make good agreements on trade with the British in the future. Mr. Chairman. This does not relieve us of the obligation to examine critically whether sufficient progress has actually been made. As far as I am concerned, the rights of people are the most important, the Dutch and other Union citizens in the United Kingdom who have been in uncertainty since the referendum. The agreements that have now been made seem to be a step in the right direction, but certainly have open ends. Is it true, and I ask the Prime Minister, that Union citizens in the United Kingdom should now apply to retain their rights there? Does this imply that this application can also be rejected? Shouldn't an explanation be enough? What about family reunification for Union citizens in the United Kingdom? How does the Prime Minister see the role of the European Court of Justice in these agreements? I'd like a reaction to that. Then there is the Irish question. Last week a Brexit deal was torpedoed by a veto by the Irish Protestants who happened to tolerate Prime Minister May's government. I read in the current agreement that nothing is being done about the Good Friday agreements, that there will be no hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland and that free movement will remain possible between Ireland and Northern Ireland. That sounds nice, it even sounds ingenious, but I am very curious how this will be implemented. If there is no special status for Northern Ireland but also no hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, how is the Brexit reflected? How does the Prime Minister assess this, also in the light of the political situation in the United Kingdom itself and the instability that may arise from it? I do not think it would be wise, for example, for the Scots to think: if the Irish get a soft border at the time of departure, why do the Scots not get a soft border at the time of departure from the United Kingdom? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister to that jigsaw puzzle. I think that I do not need to remind the Prime Minister of the starting point which is constantly repeated: 'Nothing is agitated until all is agitated'. I would like to hear whether, as far as he is concerned, sufficient progress has been made to conclude this first phase. Mr. Chairman. We must now, of course, look forward. That's the good news, too. I think it is a great achievement that the EU-27 has kept ranks so close over the past period. After all, that seems quite obvious: "Well, that went well, so that's normal." No, it's very special, it's really a great achievement, but under a relatively advantageous circumstance that we all have to ensure that that second stage can enter. Now that the second phase is coming, of course it's getting more exciting. The fact that the ranks have been kept closed and that a strong block has been negotiated is good for now, but in the next phase, which is now in progress, it is very important how the Netherlands will position itself. The Netherlands exports to the United Kingdom for tens of billions; only Ireland exports more than we do. Especially for the Netherlands, there is a great deal at stake: 162,000 lorries every year, 54 million tonnes of goods and some 200,000 jobs in the Netherlands thanks to trade with the United Kingdom. It will therefore be balanced between our national specific trade interests on the one hand and the unity in the bloc of the 27 Member States on the other. That's a thin wire that's gonna have to be balanced. Now I do know that our Prime Minister is used to walking across thin wires, goat paths or narrow alleys to eventually drag something good out of the fire, but how do we prevent certain sub-interests, relatively large sub-interests for the Netherlands, from getting in the way of a greater general interest, which also benefits the Netherlands? I'd like a response to that. In this kind of debate, the Prime Minister may be able to elaborate a little more on how that is going. I would like to do that here, so that we can get a grip on this; otherwise it will still be very difficult to judge the situation in the coming months. The second issue is military cooperation or defence cooperation. On Monday, the Foreign Ministers of 25 Member States formally launched structural defence cooperation in the European Union, also known as PESCO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would like to come back to Mr Verhoeven's second stage Brexit story. In the past, we've spent a lot of time together to prevent a race going down around taxes. This is, of course, one of the major issues between the United Kingdom and the future European Union. I would ask Mr Verhoeven to indicate whether he believes that this should also be part of that second phase. If we are trading with each other and there is a better deal than the no-deal scenario, we should also avoid a kind of pariah state on the outskirts of Europe, which is only dumping standards and taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	If Mr Asscher summarises what could happen in this way, it goes without saying that I am not in favour of it. In my opinion, the coalition agreement contains very clear things about how we want to deal with the European tax situation and the European tax field. My answer to this is that we must also involve this in future negotiations. I think you just need to involve as many topics as possible, including this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would've stayed in defence cooperation. For example, we are going to build a military highway in Europe. This is a Dutch project that has received a great deal of support from the Member States, aimed at removing bureaucratic obstacles to military transport. But it is also, for example, an opportunity that we can use to add cybersecurity to our cooperation. One weak link in Europe represents a risk for all Member States. I would like to highlight that all participating Heads of Government will welcome this decision at tomorrow's European Summit. It is a pity that Mrs Leijten is not here, because the SP is always one of those who criticize it afterwards. This Chamber has debated this on several occasions. I would like to highlight the moment when the participating European Member States have taken the sovereign decision to engage in this European defence cooperation. So we're not getting messed up. There is no European train that permeates. There's nothing we secretly give away to Brussels. We have just wanted this for ourselves, because it is better for our people, for our citizens, who can therefore be served safer and better by European cooperation. So there are national governments that have followed their own democratic decision-making and are convinced that through this cooperation at European level we are better able to guarantee our security. It may not be necessary to say that D66 wholeheartedly agrees with this. So let's move on with this project, I'd like to say. Then there is a third issue on which European cooperation is essential, therefore essential and crucial: European migration policy. Last week we saw some interesting movements on the European level. Commissioner Timmermans finally showed his teeth. He told countries that refuse to accept refugees that they could come before the European Court of Justice. At the same time, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, thought it might be a good time to suggest that the compulsory distribution of refugees should be abandoned. I assume that the Prime Minister will make the clear statement at the European summit that the Netherlands does not support this idea. Can he confirm that? I get the impression that Tusk's idea might be for Polish domestic consumption rather than for European decision-making. We have to deal with that, too. However, it is important that the Netherlands respond clearly to this, because this is also a subject where the different voices in Europe have to sound clear. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister took part in the social summit in Gothenburg on behalf of the Netherlands. I think I recall that during the previous debate on the European summit, the SP in particular was deeply concerned that it would give up social policy. Social achievements would all of a sudden become European and be stripped of national clothes. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister what concrete steps are being taken in response to this social summit. Here, too, the question of what is really going to happen in the field of European policy. How does this relate to national policies? Moreover, the annotated agenda of this summit makes it quite clear that the position of the Dutch Government is that these are simply mainly national competences. I'd like to confirm that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the euro area and EMU. Fixing the roof when the sun shines has always been my party's motto. During the last storm, we opted for compliance with budgetary rules, for the establishment of the Banking Union and for debt reduction. However, the reform of economic and monetary union is only half-finished. The Juncker Roadmap contains proposals for the other half of the renovation of that financial house, without leaking roofs. Everyone tripped over each other lately to find something. For me, however, the plans are not so much guiding. First, there are three principles: a euro area that is future-proof, democratically legitimised and capable of action. Of course, the latter two are always very difficult to combine. Democratically legitimized and effective are often a difficult combination. It is also a combination that Europe is often criticised for. Based on these principles, I do not always agree with Juncker's plans. He doesn't always bring it as productive. We have talked about this a lot here. The proposals do offer opportunities for a stronger Europe. A European minister can become a driver of reform and make economies future-proof. Besides, he's got to answer for it. That is therefore transparent and democratic. Does the Prime Minister share this view of a European Finance Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	A longer-term project is the completion of the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union, to keep financing for small and medium-sized enterprises at the level and also to break the interlinkages between banks and governments. In order to achieve a banking union, the balance sheets of banks must first be sorted out. The transformation of the ESM emergency fund into the more permanent EMF could increase the effectiveness of aid programmes and prevent countries from slipping back into a crisis. By not acting until it is too late to act before it goes wrong, by forcing reforms and by ensuring that Member States put their own house in order without vetoing each time, you can also avoid many accidents. I would also like a response from our Prime Minister. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now turn to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with migration. Europe is complicit in maintaining the degrading conditions in Libya. This concludes Amnesty International in a report published this week. Amnesty mentions, among other things, EU support for the Libyan Coast Guard, to which the Netherlands also contributes. I quote: "In 2017, 19,452 people have so far been intercepted by the Libyan Coast Guard, returned to Libya and immediately transferred to a detention centre where torture is the order of the day." Can the Prime Minister confirm these facts? If so, what are we going to do to put an end to this inhuman practice? One of the concrete results of the EU-Africa Summit is the agreement to evacuate stranded refugees from Libya, including because there would be open slavery. Fortunately, this evacuation has now begun. Then it is really impossible for us to allow refugees to be brought back to Libya by the Coast Guard at the same time, which awaits a fate as described by Amnesty. I expect the Prime Minister to discuss this issue with his colleagues in the next few days. I'd like a response. With regard to the suspension of cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard, I have previously tabled and held a motion pending a letter from the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. That letter is not yet available, but the situation in Libya is too urgent to wait any longer. Depending on the Prime Minister's reply, I may put the motion to the vote in this debate. Mr. Chairman. A few comments on the Brexit. Mr Verhoeven has already talked about this in detail. My group welcomes the progress made on the separation account and the rights of EU citizens in the UK. I agree with Mr Verhoeven that we should not take this progress for granted. It's complicated discussions. I do have a question about the rights of EU citizens in the UK. Are the heavy bureaucratic hurdles for a permanent residence permit for EU citizens in England removed with this scheme? Are there any clear agreements on this? One can apply for a permanent residence permit, as I understand it, but how does it work? The agreements on the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland are more difficult to define. Mr Verhoeven spoke about this too. What if that border between Ireland and Northern Ireland remains more or less open? How does that work? Will there be a harder border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom? That has many drawbacks. Is there really an agreement at this point, or are we looking for the quadrature of the circle? The border must remain open, but it must also be closer, because it is the essence of the Brexit. It's a good thing we can talk about the future relationship now. That is certainly in Dutch interest too. At the same time, with the three divorce issues now discussed, many other issues related to the divorce have probably not been discussed or hardly discussed. Is that correct, so I ask the Prime Minister, and what are the most important? I would like to speak in the remaining half of my speaking time about the social summit that has been held, the social issue and the relationship of the social issue with monetary policy. For me, the European Union belongs to the welfare state as the welfare state belongs to the European Union. It may sound a little corny, but it's more true than ever. It's about more than currency and market. It has to be about work, about income and about what gives people perspective. I sometimes fear that the European leaders, when they are back together in Brussels, will completely lose sight of that association. It is often about completing the internal market and the need to reform. The welfare state, as is often said by this Prime Minister, is a national competence. But this does not mean that the national welfare state is, or should be, independent of the agreements made in the EU. I am pleased that Sweden has organised a social summit together with the European Commission, but the discussion seems to me to be a little non-binding. The urgency of the challenges facing our welfare states does not seem to have reached the EU's social agenda. How, for example, is it possible that wages in so many European countries fall short of productivity growth and that the share of wages in gross national product is reduced? A national response is no longer enough. Not only because the statement is likely to lie in international developments, but also because the policies of one Member State, or the absence thereof, have a direct impact on the possibilities of the other Member State. Low wages in the Netherlands, for example, do not lead to such a large surplus on the balance of payments as the Netherlands, for example, quickly creating problems for countries elsewhere. For this reason alone, it is not enough to say, as the cabinet does again in the annotated agenda, that countries must put their own house in order before we want to talk about strengthening monetary union. There are also other urgent questions that can only be answered at European level, such as tackling tax evasion and avoiding ever-increasing tax competition that makes welfare states and financing our social system even more vulnerable. In this case, I will leave the word 'dividend tax' to rest. How do we prevent Poland from working under the Dutch minimum wage in the Netherlands and how does the rules of our EMU influence these developments? In the proposals for strengthening European Monetary Union, I do not see much of a critical evaluation. Who was ultimately the biggest victim of the banking crisis? That was not the big investors or the banks, but the hundreds of thousands who lost their jobs or had their pensions cut in half. Mr President, I shall conclude. The euro summit will be about a timetable for decision-making. I can imagine that the Prime Minister is not just looking at the agenda. The Netherlands will also highlight its position on EMU and banking union, I read in the annotated agenda. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how we attach monetary policy to our social agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. Our security, our prosperity, our freedom, we can only protect them with other countries together. It is precisely cooperation, security and trade that make Europe one of the best places on earth. This continent that so often tried to destroy itself is now a beacon for others. "Then why do the British want out?', You'd think. Because the European Union's promise to improve is in contrast to competition for the worst working conditions and the high price for the crisis paid by ordinary people. Because lack of influence and control over what is happening in Europe and concerns about migration cause abdominal pain. Those are subjects that affect us here as well. Is there going to be good and well-paid work for everyone and do we still have control over our country and our future? That is why the European Union needs to develop over the next few years towards a Europe that protects, an EU that helps to provide security, tackles terror, jointly develops a greener economy with good work for all and protects us from climate change, which combats tax avoidance and financial locusts, and ensures that savings and society are protected, so that the large companies contribute to education and care, which protects workers from dangerous substances and unsafe jobs and protects jobs from unfair competition from low-wage blocks. What does that mean for the position of the Netherlands in the discussion on the future of EMU? We support the government's line with regard to a European Monetary Fund, an SDRM. We also support the government's line with regard to simplifying and improving the rules of the Stability Pact. But EMU is a means and not an end. It is indeed necessary to look more closely at the social consequences and the conditions surrounding reforms. It is important that there are proposals to ensure this. The cabinet is silent about the more proactive role that governments can and should play in times of crisis. This cabinet is rightly against a super-minister, but what are we for anyway? Can the Prime Minister indicate how the cabinet would be faced with a variant with, for example, a High Representative in the Commission? Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. What a cynical mess! Ordinary people in the United Kingdom pay the bill for a game of a group of boarding school boys. The European Commission will now ask for a mandate, fortunately, to start real negotiations on the future relationship with the United Kingdom. For us, there are two things of vital importance here. First of all, the causes of Brexit. They're not gone. Workers in the Netherlands and in other countries deserve to be protected from competition in order to work under the worst possible conditions. Colleagues should not become competitors. There must therefore be an end to labour migration, which is intended only to compete at cost. The European Council is discussing the social pillar, the Brexit, EMU. I call on the Prime Minister, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, to take the initiative now to form a coalition of countries. It is important that the Netherlands takes the lead with other countries in good time. It is crucial for migration from outside the European Union to have a common approach, not only on paper, but also in practice. Think of the paper reality and the conditions that are still not good in Greece on the ground. That means it can never be a non-binding collaboration. I trust that the Prime Minister will indicate this also if Eastern European countries.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I also ask the Prime Minister about the follow-up to the African Union Summit. I agree with Mr Van Ojik: what is going to happen with regard to the degrading situation in Libya, where people are being enslaved at this time? In the future relationship with the British, we want trade, of course, but not a race down, not for the protection of workers, not for environmental standards and not for taxes. It is necessary to agree on this at that next stage between the European Union and the United Kingdom and to include it in a mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is important for Mr Asscher to establish the link between the causes of the feeling that the Brexit has brought and the questions that Europe stands for. Labour migration is very important. That is what Mr Asscher has been working on as a minister. Can he give us a more precise indication of what steps we should take now in order to go further in this respect? Because I think we have an important point to make here. I understand the direction, but maybe he can point it a little more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's right. Dutch workers experience that a migrant from Eastern Europe is cheaper. That was because he was allowed to work for a lower salary. This is now being changed by adapting the European directive in this respect, but there is still a cost difference. This has to do with the fact that social contributions can be paid in a cheaper country, so they do not contribute to our social system, but to a much tighter social system elsewhere. If that can exist in the long term, you still have a cost difference, which means you still have a business model of cheap labour migration. That has nothing to do with the beauty of free movement: there is a vacancy, you can't find anyone and then someone from another country, or a Dutchman who is going to work across the border. No, it's actually still a business model that makes people cynical and that people can lose their jobs. This will lead to the erosion of support for Europe, because Europe's promise is that workers will improve on it. Now that wages have succeeded or are going to succeed, I think it is very important to move forward and to realize that this is not only happening in Northern England, but also in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about tax agreements. Even worse than no deal with the British would be a deal in which the British could start a war on standards and tariffs. Then there is trade, but then there will be products on the European market that are produced without the safety that goes with it, under working conditions that we should not want in Europe. This would mean that ordinary workers and ordinary taxpayers would be the victims. The Netherlands sets a bad example by seeking to abolish the dividend tax and justify it with the Brexit and references to the UK's choices. The Labour Party believes that agreements should be made in the new phase which is now beginning, especially when trade is being negotiated, and I am pleased that Mr Verhoeven also supported this in order to combat fiscal dumping between the United Kingdom and the European Union. I would ask the Prime Minister to call for such agreements when defining the negotiating mandate for the next stage. Mr. Chairman. In the drama of Brexit there is also an opportunity, an opportunity to tackle the weaknesses of the European Union, but above all an opportunity to strengthen Europe's strength. This is the time to make the EU work for its citizens: a Europe that protects. This is the time to opt for a greener economy, for security, for defending and proudly promoting European values such as democracy, the rule of law, freedom of opinion and expression and social protection. We need to be very critical of the functioning of the European Union, not because we should get out but because our future needs to be taken forward. And we can do that with a better European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now turn to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	Madam President. Brexit means Brexit; Brexit means Brexit, which Prime Minister May said very firmly in response to the outcome of the British referendum in 2016. But to this day, no one knows what that Brexit is really going to mean. And now that the first agreements have been made, one thing becomes clear: that the British, instead of having more control, are going to get a high bill and more bureaucracy. An economic downturn is lurking. My first question to the Prime Minister is: what exactly is the status of the agreements made on 6 or 9 December? At first there was happiness about the deal, but soon British Brexit Minister Davis said it was just a declaration of intent. And I also heard from Brussels: it's just a gentlemen's agreement. In short, what exactly is the status of these agreements? The good news of these agreements is that the British Government is finally aware that it cannot transfer the Brexit account to taxpayers on the continent of Europe. But also here: how concrete are the agreements on the settlement? What can we hold the British to and what amount does the Dutch Government take into account when it comes to that final bill, if that is to be said? Another point that has been discussed and on which there seems to be agreement is the position of British nationals in Europe and of European nationals in Great Britain. In the first few years, they broadly maintain their rights. But the catch is that 5 million people in Europe without changing their place of residence suddenly have to go into the bureaucratic mill of applying for residence permits. So it turns out here that the Brexit instead of less rules will mean more rules. This also means that in the Netherlands 50,000 British people suddenly find themselves in a different situation. Should they now apply for a residence permit and, if so, how does the Prime Minister see it for all those British people in the Netherlands? Then there is the point of the Irish/Northern Irish border. No one wants to go back to the tensions of the past, but the text of the agreement now contains a lot of spelling formulas. That concerns me, because the problem of the Irish border has not yet been solved in any way. It says there will be no hard line on the Irish island. But what will happen to a product transported, for example, from Ireland to Northern Ireland? The Northern Irish explain the deal in such a way that that product can also continue to the mainland of Great Britain, mainland Britain. But can this really be done if the United Kingdom, as apparently the aim, is to get out of the customs union and out of the internal market? This point was raised earlier by Mr Verhoeven. What would be the result of that for the Netherlands? Dutch products shipped through Harwich are subject to new import controls in any form whatsoever, but the same product entering through the Irish border is not affected. Now exports from the Netherlands to Northern Ireland are small, but if there is no barrier between Northern Ireland and the British island, it will be very different. Then the Irish/Northern Irish border could become the largest smuggling route in the Western Hemisphere. Ireland could then, through its special arrangement with Northern Ireland, de facto partly escape the free movement of persons and outside the internal market. After all, you can first send Dutch products to Ireland, in order to bring them across the border without barriers to trade. I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that there is a break in that internal market and in that free trade. And therefore also to ensure that the Netherlands does not get into a disadvantage when drawing up the plans. I ask the Prime Minister how he sees this and how he sees it around the Irish border. The Brexit should have been the self-conscious answer to all that bad that the British think comes from Europe. Bureaucracy, nonsensical rules, expensive civil servants and, above all, the curtailment of the feeling of being free and independent. But as so often has been shown here that the referendum is not a solution. It's the problem. Because why was that referendum held? That was because British Prime Minister Cameron promised to hold a referendum if he would win the elections, not to hear what the British wanted, but to secure his own reelection. Cameron won, but the prize is now paid by the British people. And Cameron has also lost his job. This is where there is a flaw that applies to referenda. A referendum is an absolute answer from an absolute majority to an absolute question. But reality is much more complex than this absolute question. And the final outcome of that yes to the Brexit may well be the opposite of what the British electorate had imagined and what politicians had proposed to the British electorate prior to that referendum. This is something that we must also learn from in this country when we are so cheerful about the simple referendums. In all this, we must be aware that Mr Asscher also pointed out that the British electorate's signal represents a broader discontent in Western society. This calls for a rethink, including in Brussels. It is true that more Brussels is not always a better Brussels. This brings me to the roadmap presented by the European Commission last week. That is not yet decided, but I am already bringing this up because I am so terribly afraid that it will continue in quick steps. The Commission presented the plans for European Monetary Union. For the CDA, this still breathes too much atmosphere from sticking patches afterwards instead of preventing problems. In this roadmap, the ESM becomes an EMF with far-reaching powers to conjure up voters. But I do miss the hard frameworks and the far-reaching powers to enforce reforms and compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Because it is starting in Europe that countries need to have their own economy, their finances, their banking sector in order. Indeed, even at this time of high economic growth, most of Europe's countries still have huge deficits. France, a debt of 97% and a deficit of almost 3%, still today; in 2019 it won't reach 3% if we don't pay attention. Italy, 132% debt, 2.5% deficit. Spain, 98% debt, 1.9% deficit. And the Netherlands, 57% debt and 0.7% surplus. If we don't pay attention, here's the red carpet for a transfer union. We cannot go that way, and we are also in breach of the coalition agreement. This is important to us, but of course it is even more important for Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	We held a hearing a few weeks ago on the future of European Monetary Union, cooperation. One of the conclusions that was drawn there is that we have in itself fine rules on our budget deficit, our distant financial budget and so on. The problem is, however, that we never impose rules and penalties. France - you mentioned it just now - just gets away with it, and that is because the Netherlands is barking but doesn't bite. I can hear you barking again. Are you in favour of further sanctions, for example against France if they fail to comply financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	Sure, but that's why we have to be so careful about the steps now. In itself, it is now the case that a country from Europe - that is what Brussels - is going to find a way to get its finances back in order, but that path is often not sufficiently quickly resolved. France is a very good example. If we do not pay attention, it will become the dominant factor in the thinking of a Commission. The Netherlands is increasingly in a minority position. That is already the case, because how many friends do we have left? What we are doing, however, is essential. It starts with countries not having their economies in order. I know that the French President says that he wants to. I think that's important, but it's first to see and then to believe, because that's what we've been through before with France. It's the wrong way for us to, if they continue to make debts, then save them. First, the economy needs to be in order and then the second step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	If I can translate that, you're actually saying that, if countries tell and write that right, you believe them. One of your colleagues, Mr Donner, once said to me: do not believe my words, believe my budget. What we see is that Heads of Government say that they want to make efforts, but in practice they do not allow them to return to the budget. How are we going to ensure that other countries comply with the agreements that we do, but which sometimes have a negative impact on our own economy? What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'm nudging the thesis that nothing happens. Spain has done a lot. Greece is far too late, but it is now busy. In fact, a lot of countries think that is too harsh, but I think it is necessary. I'm not going to go with you so far as to make sure nothing happens. I do agree with you that the Stability and Growth Pact has not been sufficiently maintained towards France. I have to say quite frankly: the Netherlands can bounce, stand on its head and do all kinds of things, but if the movement goes that way, as it happened, with Germany too, then the Netherlands hangs behind. Where the Netherlands may still be at the forefront, it is in shaping the plans for the future. In my view, too little attention has been paid to putting the budget in order, no matter what you say, and too much to it: if it has not worked and it is going wrong, who will come to help? I think that's the joint task. If we are so strict in the Netherlands, even for your party, that means cutting back if necessary. That also means tough choices. Often, even in this Parliament, I do not immediately urge your party to be strict with other countries, but if we have to be strict with ourselves, then there is also some restraint. It is a consequence that also affects us, but if we do, it also means a good economy for the future. I think that is a necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	I take your encouragement to be tough myself. If you had read DENK's bank transfer, you would have seen that we are the only party with a multi-annual shelf life surplus. We're very strict about that. In this respect, we are making the right choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	It's nice that the butcher likes his own meat. I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Buma may continue with the answer to the question I am about to put to him. First get your own house in order and then step two. That is actually the essence of Mr Buma's speech on this point. He is actually saying what is also in the government agreement and what the Prime Minister in Brussels is going to say if we can believe the annotated agenda. Don't you miss the interlinkage between the EU Member States that have been around for a long time, for example in the areas of wages, trade policy or the financial boundaries that you use? In other words, is it real to say to a country that it must first have its own house in order if at the same time we ourselves do so much that may sometimes make it difficult for countries to put that house in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	I share that intertwinedness, but not the second part. It is precisely because of this intertwinedness that we get to deal with when another country spends money that it doesn't have and when it then, as soon as it goes wrong, knocks on the door of the Netherlands to eventually add to the amount of money we are always the payer in such cases. That's what the discussion is about a lot. You may say less quickly: you need to get the budget in order. I'll say that faster. And I must say that, when I look at the recent history of Europe, I am giving myself the benefit of the doubt, because those countries which have not had their budget in order and which are still in deficit at a time of high economic growth will be the first to face major problems if unemployment goes down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	I do not think this debate is about the extent to which you think it is important for countries to get their budgets in order. My point is this. Suppose somewhere in a Western European country there is a government that says: we are going to abolish the dividend tax. What if something like that happened? This will have consequences for all the neighbouring countries in which they act and invest. They have to do something. If they do nothing, they lose their competitiveness and they no longer have their budget in order and Mr Buma says: they must put their own house in order first. You can say the same thing about wages or something else. My point is that what we are doing has direct consequences for many other countries and vice versa. So saying, "You have to put your own house in order first," denies that connection. It's not about whether you want to apply budgetary discipline. That's what we all want. We need to discuss it in conjunction. We need to discuss it with each other. We cannot say: it is a national competence. That is my appeal to Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	Let me put it this way: the power is to make your choices. They are the frameworks together, and these frameworks have not been used sufficiently as far as I am concerned. We run the risk that the pressure to handle frameworks will become even less, because there will eventually be a backstop. What the Netherlands is doing is entirely within the framework of the European agreements, a logical framework as well, because every country looks at what the climate is in which its economy is doing well. Makes sense. That's what England does. That is what other countries are doing, but that still does not take away the responsibility of a country like Italy, with a debt of 132%, to do something about it. If they did, they could also reduce taxes. This would help them to strengthen business. They could also reduce citizens' taxes, because that is what the Netherlands is doing in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	Please continue. No, Mr Tony van Dijck also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	Let's talk about this point. Mr Buma is now calling on Italy to do something about his guilt, but why should they? Italy has a debt of 133% GDP, 2,500 billion. Why would they do anything about that? They are now being helped by the ECB with a huge buy-back programme, which keeps interest rates nice and low. Soon the ECB will stop doing that, then that interest rate will skyrocket and they will be helped with that EMF of yours. In other words, you are facilitating the Italians to do nothing!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	Let me start with the EMF. For now, that's as much mine as it is yours, because it's not there. And the question is... I totally agree with what you say that the great risk is that Italy will be able to wait until January to pay off its debt, because it is true that they can now borrow from the ECB at low interest rates. My colleague Omtzigt has warned about this many times. The second is also true. If we cut that down, the interest rate will go up and Italy will not be able to pay it anymore; then the EMF will come and that will help them. And every time they say to the Netherlands: yes, but you have to lower your taxes and do less other things. I think that is what Europe is going to do. The intention was once that, by making countries more economically competitive, we would jointly have a stronger economy and move forward. My view is that the direction in which the Commission's plans are now going does not start with the economy, but starts with what happens when your economy is not in order and there is a payment to be made. And I think that's the wrong order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	The Commission's plans are dripping away from a debt community: we will soon be jointly responsible for Italy's debts. That's why they're about to introduce Eurobonds. That debt is not sustainable if it is rolled over at 12% when it is already so high. In other words, can I conclude that the CDA is a fierce opponent of the EMF? Because the EMF will soon make it possible for this Italian debt to be helped unconditionally. That's from the EMF, from that 500 billion-dollar pot. Bonds can be purchased both on the primary market and on the secondary market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	I assume you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	Look, these are the problems that exist. And as far as further discussions on the EMF are concerned, I want us to say from the Netherlands: first your household in order and then you can talk about an EMF. There is already the ESM, so I do not think that there is a specific provision in Europe. There is one in the world. The point I think is that we must first ensure that countries have their own economies in order. When I read the piece, the risk of the direction now is that it's really just about that second part. There are some phrases about countries having to have their economies in order, but also about a fund to absorb asymmetric shocks and the like. All such terms come from a Europe that thinks far too much along the line that, unfortunately, budgets cannot come together and so we all have to help a bit. The Netherlands shows that it can. That is not an easy position for the Netherlands at all, because fewer and fewer countries find it. But that position is, in my view, for the future of a strong Europe, which is what I am concerned about, and that is the difference with you. If it's embedded in it, then I don't mind an EMF as much as you probably will. I do think this is about the starting point. That's what's going on now. Fortunately, the Commission is taking this step by step. What I see emerging is a position in which the Netherlands is going to be very alone and that is an annoying position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Van Dijck, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr Buma should not be naive. The EMF is on the table. The legislation is ready. All we have to do is sign it. That signature will be signed next May. Now you keep the story that this Italian debt has to go to 60% because the EMF does not work otherwise and otherwise it is dangerous, but in May you will sign with the cross for such an EMF, which means that the debt in Italy will soon be completely on the plate of the Dutch taxpayer. In other words, will you join me in calling on this Prime Minister not to agree with the EMF, and to make that clear next Friday, as long as the debt in Italy is above 60%, or do you say: all good intentions but in the end I sign by the cross?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Everything I say here comes down to not drawing at the cross. I've written down more, but that's one of the things I'm saying to the Prime Minister: don't. Because with that cross, steps are taken towards a transfer union. I have the coalition agreement on my side. There are all kinds of safeguards in that. The cabinet knows that when it negotiates in Brussels, there are guarantees. That was done consciously at the time because of the risk of a transfer union. I don't tend to say right now "don't agree, never" because there may be a better condition. Again, I don't think it's such a point. But if that condition is not there, the Netherlands is not the ghost rider but with a few other countries the only country that understands how to keep Europe strong in the future. It is not by allowing poor countries to keep rich countries on their feet, but by ensuring that those poor countries, the southern countries, really understand that the reforms and pain that Dutch citizens have often felt had a purpose. There is now a 3% growth and a tax reduction. They can't do that in the south.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr Buma just said two things that do appeal to me. He said, "I have the coalition agreement on my side." But he said in a sense before that: we are perhaps the only country that has this strict position, including the coalition agreement. Mr Buma says that other countries must first have the house in order and make reforms and that we then want to talk about the views of the committee and what is more. My question is, can Mr Buma indicate how the Prime Minister, by means of the government agreement in Brussels, can ensure that the Netherlands is not the only country? 'Cause if that's the case, we know we're lost in vain. In other words, how can we, through the Prime Minister in Brussels, force our partner countries to implement these reforms first and put the house in order first? If we don't get that guaranteed, any discussion about next steps will be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	I would like to forward that question to the Prime Minister. What is he actually doing right now to prevent us from standing alone and to find allies who also wear this story? Germany was a very stable partner but is of course also searching at the moment. They can learn from us how quickly you build a government, which is based on a good government agreement that also has a good paragraph about Europe. As far as I am concerned, they may still have our paragraph tomorrow. But it is no longer certain that the Netherlands can say: Germany will take the chestnuts out of the fire. That makes it more difficult for us, because rightly you say that standing alone is tough, but it is not the solution. You want more land. That is not easy, but I am standing here and I am standing here to say that that is what needs to be done. We must say with a number of countries: we want a Europe that can cope with crises and not a Europe that suddenly comes into crisis with a money pot filled by other taxpayers. Because that's not the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Buma also referred to the German debate. Today, Schulz and Merkel go to the table. You know that Lindner had the Dutch coalition agreement with him a few weeks ago and read that, on which Merkel is: yes, but Germany is not the Netherlands. Then Lindner walked out of the room, actually already on that Thursday. Then it was end of practice. Don't you think that because Lindner couldn't conclude that agreement in that coalition, and because Schulz is sitting at the table today, the position of the Netherlands is even more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	We are now going to read very carefully in the negotiations in Germany. But when I hear Schulz talking about his goal of a united states of Europe and that sort of thing more, of course, I will not be more reassured. That is exactly what I mean when I say that the number of stable partners for the Netherlands may decrease. But that must not mean that the Netherlands must say: we too will kill the flag. I have no reason to think that this is happening, but I would find that unwise and I think it would really be the wrong way. I firmly believe that this is the only way to prepare Europe for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	Merkel was right when she said that the Netherlands was not Germany. Germans sometimes say to me: The Netherlands is actually the seventeenth state of Germany. I always say: I think Germany is just the thirteenth province of the Netherlands. Good. I'll get back to that EMF. The rules we now have apply: each country has a right of veto and only in cases of emergency the 85% applies. Those rules should therefore remain in place with the EMF. We cannot have an EMF run from Brussels. It's Dutch money coming in. I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. My second point was mentioned earlier. Nor does the CDA see anything in a European Finance Minister who is also president of the eurogroup, who has his own budget, in short: someone who is going to conduct policies there about our money with budgets that we know always go south; I do not know exactly how. This also applies: don't! In fact, Mr Omtzigt has already tabled motions for resolutions on this matter. I mentioned earlier that I consider the proposal for a stabilisation function in the event of asymmetric shocks dangerous. I do not know who uses the pen which makes them use words like this, but in short, if a southern country does badly, the Netherlands will have to pay for it. So that's not good either. In short, this transfer union is a risk. I have already said that countries must first have their own budget in order. Finally, the issue of the European deposit guarantee scheme. I would like to point out once again the coalition agreement. This can only be achieved if the banking sector in each Member State is healthy and there is a good risk weighting of government bonds on its own balance sheets. I am not saying that it is happening, but I am asking the Prime Minister that the EMF will eventually be lending directly to banks, which, of course, we always didn't want. In short, the Netherlands has a position to take which may sound strict for other countries, but which is the only one to ensure a good future for Europe. Fortunately, we have a coalition agreement with frameworks, which will also lead the CDA. This may not only make friends with politicians in Europe, but I know that it is the only way to create a strong Europe for the citizens of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Buma. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is concerned and the PVV is also concerned. But with this difference that the CDA and the VVD and D66 and the Christian Union leave the door open, because we are at a crossroads in the European Union: do we choose more or less Europe? The cabinet keeps all the options open and opens the door. As far as the PVV is concerned, that is dangerous. Because is there going to be or is there not going to be a European deposit guarantee scheme? That's what's gonna happen, except the cabinet's still a little bumpy. Is there going to be a European Monetary Fund or not? There will be, but the cabinet still has a few comments. Are there going to be European taxes or not? They come, only the cabinet prefers it in OECD context, but does not stop the plans. Is there going to be a European Finance Minister or not? The cabinet says we'll see. Rutte says: that'll take a while, we'll see about that. Are there going to be Eurobonds? Not right now, but in the long term it is necessary and possible. In other words, it's all gonna be there, just the Cabinet and Mr Rutte playing first and foremost a little hard to get. But the European train is pounding. If we don't get full of hand brakes, we're gonna be in a federal union and we don't exist anymore. Schulz didn't wrap his head around it last week. He tweeted: wir woollen die Vereinigde Staats von Europa. We want the United States of Europe. And if you don't like it, he's gonna say it, too. You're gonna step on it. Mr. Chairman. This man is then negotiating with Merkel, and that promises something: with Schulz on one side, Macron on the other side, and Juncker in the middle we are driving a fast train to a federal union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	My question is about the EMF. In the interruption to me, Mr Van Dijck said that an EMF can only come when countries are below 60% of debt. But that suggests that he also eventually takes into account the possibility that the PVV can agree to an EMF, as long as that is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	No, I think it's naive of the CDA to say that the countries have to put their house in order first and then we can talk about an EMF. For even if Italy, in the most hypothetical case, could get that debt to 60%, let's say it would happen, it would still be a snapshot, and the following year the debt is again 90%. And then they have an EMF to fall back on. The EMF is only meant as a large safety net, a hammock for southern countries: if you get into trouble with banks, you get into trouble with your economy, then you have a nice EMF, nicely filled by the northern countries and nicely transferred to the southern countries. That's the EMF and it's naive to think it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	Then it's clear. For the PVV there will never be an EMF, for the reason that the PVV does not expect any country to reach 60%. I can understand that by myself, but that's not the point. I am concerned that it is not a matter of principle, there can be no EMF, but that it is a lack of confidence in many countries that never show that they are achieving 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	It's not that. We do not want to be responsible and guarantee the misery and debts of other countries and other banks. That's why. That is why we are not in favour of a banking union, because the banking union is also based on the fact that weak banks are maintained by the collective. All weak brothers have an interest in a collective, because that helps them stay on their feet and come through winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. I told you, Macron on one side and Schulz on the other. But who's gonna stop them? Not this Prime Minister, he keeps all options open. Politico called him "the man in the middle," "goldlokje" and "the dreamed successor of Donald Tusk." That's why he's holding the cards against the chest. But that doesn't help the Netherlands. It's time for the Prime Minister to confess colour. I read in the coalition agreement that the EU should not become a debt community and should not take any further steps towards a transfer union. But we're already a debt community. We have already allocated 500 billion in aid to problem countries in recent years. See if you can get that back! The ECB has been buying everything that's loose and stuck for years. Any junkie union, any loan you can give to the ECB. The balance sheet has doubled from 2 billion in two years to 4.4 billion, mainly bad loans. So don't come up with "we shouldn't become a debt community" when half of all the debts of all the Member States have been dumped on the taxpayers' sign. See if you can get that back. I am not even talking about TARGET2, the payment system that has been completely derailed. Germany now has a claim against Italy and Spain of 1,000 billion. And the Netherlands now 100 billion. That account is only getting higher. Take Italy now. The public debt is 2,500 billion and the Italian banks are covered with bad loans. 300 billion in non-performing loans are on those balance sheets. Of course Italy wants to share the risks with the Netherlands. That makes sense. If the European Central Bank stops its buy-in programme, that interest will explode in Italy and the debt will become unsustainable. Italy will then become Greece squared. Now all the pots are filled to hold Italy up. The prime minister says he's allergic to a transfer union. But we already have those, too, because every year the Netherlands pays billions to the EU budget. Poland receives 10 billion every year. Greece, Romania, the Czech Republic and Hungary receive 5 billion each year from the Dutch taxpayer. And they don't have to do anything for that. But with the current proposals, the debt union and the transfer union will be further developed. The emergency fund will be transformed into a European institution, the EMF, and a 500 billion pot will be set up to support crooked banks through recapitalisations or Club Med countries. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is losing its veto and has nothing more to say about it. 500 billion. The PVV warned here many times that this was going to happen, but the cabinet agreed. Nor does the cabinet see anything in a European Finance Minister, it says, but it does not reject it either. Rutte says, "We'll see about that." With the deposit guarantee scheme, it's the same story. Dutch banks will soon be able to guarantee the funds of Italian savers. That system will be in place sooner than later. The proposal of the Eurobonds is also on the table again. First, we're gonna bundle them together, we're gonna secure them, and then we're gonna spend them together. Eventually, they're gonna get there, these eurobonds. It won't be long now. Just like European taxes. The European Commission simply wants control over taxes, because a federal union is not finished until you have your own resources at your disposal. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will take a firm stand against any form of European taxation. Mr. Chairman. We're running to the abyss. All the pots are filled. There is the EU budget of 140 billion. There is the Investment Bank with, as we read today, 500 billion. The EMF: 500 billion. The ECB with 4,500 billion. And yet it's not enough. We need more pots of money to help the weak countries in the South. One after the other is filled: the 300 million reform fund, a convergence facility, a Juncker fund, an unemployment fund, a resolution fund, a deposit guarantee fund, a backstop and stability fund, a rainyday fund and ultimately a euro budget. It's all billions getting ready to subsidise the weak brothers in the South. Finally, the transfer union must be completed. Mr. Chairman. We're being set up. We continue to swim in the European trap. More and more billions are being transferred from North to South. Our prosperity is being transferred. Our country is being expropriated. That is the real agenda of Brussels. Delivered from the troublesome British, they can finally make meters in Brussels. The garlic lands take the lead. The Frenchman Macron, the Portuguese Centeno and the Italian Draghi only want one thing: more power, more powers, more money, more solidarity and more transfers from north to south. The European Union is only finished if it is a genuine federation with its own government, its own taxes, its own Eurobonds and its own European army. The Prime Minister stands by and looks at it; at how the Netherlands slowly disappears and merges into the united states of Europe. The PVV won't pay for Italy's mega debt. The PVV doesn't want to take the fall for the zombie banks, which are wallpapered with irrecoverable loans. We do not want Eurobonds, we do not want European taxes and we do not want additional funds to help problem countries or banks. The PVV wants to be boss in their own house again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	I have a question for Mr Van Dijck. I have always understood that the PVV believes that the Netherlands should leave the European Union as soon as possible. I hear a lot of criticism of others now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	Boss in his own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	Yes, so you want to leave the European Union, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	Then my question is: would you like to trade now with the United Kingdom, if you see how things are going there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	Well, the UK is, of course, going through a difficult period with the Brexit, a period of uncertainty. That's never good. That is not good for any country or for any company, but I think that the British will eventually end up laughing at us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	We can see that inflation is rising, wages are falling, companies are moving away and ordinary people are going to pay for the irresponsible behaviour of the political summit. As we see it, you say that you would like to trade with the United Kingdom, while you also know that the Netherlands is still much smaller than the UK. You say, the PVV says: when we come to power, we are going to be as stupid as the British and even worse. That's what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	I know that Mr Asscher hopes that the Brexit will be a nightmare so that it can serve as an example. The whole European Commission hopes that it will serve as an example of'see what happens when you get out', and so it will make it extremely difficult for the British. We believe in sovereignty and in being in charge of our own house. We do not want to guarantee that mega debt in Italy. You do want to. You want Dutch people to work for up to 80 years, so that they can pay that debt from the Italians. We don't want that. We are responsible for our own country, for our own borders, for our own budget, for our own taxes and for all the things that the Netherlands can do. The British do, and now you're worried about the race to the bottom. Yes, of course! All companies are thinking of leaving for the UK when the tax is lower there. In fact, this Prime Minister has left 1.4 billion dividends to prevent Unilever from leaving for the United Kingdom. In other words, everyone is more panicked that things will be going very well with the United Kingdom and that all Member States are going to think of 'hey, I want that too' than people think it is going to be a nightmare. You're hoping for that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr Asscher. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	The conclusion is very clear. The PVV prefers to risk the jobs and money of ordinary Dutch people and lose them in the roulette so that they can continue to believe in their own rhetoric, rather than simply work for a better European Union. That really is an incredibly weak offer to many Dutch people who depend on their regular job. Really weak!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	I'm not gonna be part of this scaremongering. Mr Asscher is better placed to apply to the European Commission. What he is saying is exactly as the European Commission always does, so of 'the light goes out if you choose for yourself'. No, we choose ourselves and we choose jobs. You are still allowing all Poles to work here, with a success of 'wages are the same'. Eventually, there will be no less Pole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	However, it struck me very much that Mr Van Dijck's contribution was about the EMF. Together, we must do a great deal to ensure that it is not actually going to be as it is now on paper. Mr Van Dijck kept silent about what the PVV has been cheering about for years, namely about the Brexit, just when it gets serious. You say it yourself: you see the uncertainty in Britain. You just see things aren't going well over there. That's not scary, but it's looking at the facts. Things aren't going well out there. The debt is growing, the interest is rising and the end is not yet in sight. Now my only question to Mr Van Dijck is what the Dutch interest is. That is what we are here for at a Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	In fact, the Netherlands needs to negotiate with the United Kingdom in order to conclude a bilateral trade agreement. The Netherlands is now trapped in the European Union. So we should get out of that. We are still trapped in the European Union, which has only one interest: to make it as difficult as possible for the English and to use the Brexit as hard as possible. That is what Juncker wants to convey to the other Member States. Eventually the Netherlands shoots itself in its own foot. The Netherlands has always had a very good trade relationship with England. We cannot now maintain them bilaterally because we are trapped in the European Union. That's why we need to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'm afraid the ice cream you're ice skating on is getting thinner and thinner. If the Netherlands is going to do what Britain is doing now, we will have the same problem at the Northern Irish and Irish borders, but with Belgium and Germany. There the Northern Irish beg as the Netherlands relates to Germany, Northern Ireland relates to England to stay within the free zone with Ireland at least. Why? 'Cause they know that border's gonna cut their throats. And what do you say to the Dutch? "No, we're gonna do the same. We are going to build a border." All the freight that wants to go to Belgium will soon be subject to border controls, if it is up to the PVV. I am telling you that this is really helping the Netherlands. It is not good and it is not the future, but it is the present that shows that the line used in the Brexit is not the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	Of course, there's one difference. We have examined it, but we have also said that we are in favour of the internal market. So we choose the model of Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, so that we are in that internal market. The doomsday scenario of heavy goods vehicles, traffic jams and so on will not take place in our scenario, because we are a member of the internal market, but in everything else you want to be responsible for the misery in Italy and for the misery in Greece, because we want to belong to that euro and to that European Union if necessary, we do not suffer from all this misery. It doesn't bother the Swiss and it doesn't bother the Norwegians. That's the big difference with our scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	Finally, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	Norway simply paid to Greece; I checked that out. Really, if you think the Netherlands should be our goal... You do not mean that, because England wants a Brexit leaving the internal market and from the free trade area, and you do not want that. Then you choose the Norwegian model. Norway is in Schengen, pays in part to Greece and pays in part to the EU. They have to harmonise all the rules, but they do not do one thing: participate in decision-making. I believe that Dutch voters should then take part in the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	What Mr Buma is saying is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. You don't even have the floor yet. Later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	There is one big difference: Norway does not pay for all this misery in Italy, Spain, Greece, France and so on. Norway is not in the transfer union. Norway is the boss in its own house. They are in the internal market and, of course, they are also a bit deported to the European Union to be a member of that European market, but we are the biggest net contributor. Every year, we transfer 8 billion directly to Poland. And who gets to split that up? Those are the men in Brussels. We say spend that money in our own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Buma, really finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	You're right. There's one thing I keep pointing out. Now the old rhetorical lyrics are coming back, but I see that you have looked at what is happening in England and I see that you have not devoted a word to it in your entire speech. I saw you say England is in a very secure position. I can tell you that the facts indicate that England is far worse off than that report you have ever anticipated. Learn from that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr President, if I may respond...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	Of course, England is in an uncertain situation. That's what we've been expecting. We have anticipated that it would take two or three years for it to stabilize, but ultimately England is the laughing third. Be aware, you will continue to reduce corporation tax, dividend tax or all of that, because in the end we will lose competition with England.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	How does Mr Van Dijck feel about the Dutch economy and its prospects at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	The Dutch economy is doing quite well on this, although this cannot be written on the conto of Mr Rutte's previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	And to what extent has cooperation in the European Union contributed to economic growth and the current good situation for Dutch citizens, to which you are so concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	The Dutch economy could have gone even better. We have looked back, for example, and from the introduction of the euro, the disposable income of the Dutchman stands still. So the Dutch economy can go well, but the Dutch haven't noticed for seventeen years that the economy is doing well, because they have taken no advantage of that economic growth. This is also due to the fact that we are part of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	What I notice every time is that the PVV actually denies reality and every time with fear and act in fear tries to make people feel very bad, so that they no longer look realistic at what is going on but go along with that doom scenario of the PVV. If I hear you say that in England it is going to be evidently worse, wages are going to be lower and growth is extremely uncertain and is much lower than in the Netherlands and neighbouring countries.............................................................................................................................................. You're just acting out of fear. You don't know, and you deny reality. The result is that you make predictions that are simply impossible to measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	Perhaps Mr Azarkan was not in the Chamber at the time, but we have examined this in two ways, and we simply see the misery and the dampening effects of being a member of the euro and of the European Union. Those effects have simply been clearly proven and investigated. If you want to stay in the European Union and if you want to continue to transfer money from north to south, you should do so, but I say to our electorate: we will continue to fight to prevent that. We don't want a transfer union. We do not want billions to be transferred to Greece, to Italy and so on. You seem to be okay with helping those brothers in Italy. We say help yourself and help you in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	What strikes me so much, including in the debate on the interruption with Mr Buma, is that Mr Van Dijck would like to have the pleasure but not the burden. It can't be both. The example was given of other countries participating in Europe but not in the European Union. They have to sign at the cross and have no say. You should explain that you do want to benefit from this cooperation at European level, but that you are not actually participating. What does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	That looks exactly like the way countries in the European community like Switzerland and Norway do. They decide whether or not to sign on to the cross and whether or not to participate. It is true that they are not at the table, but our vote is of course not so big in the European context, because everything is done today by qualified majority. Even that whole ESM they now want to turn into an EMF, which can transfer money to banks and countries by qualified majority. In other words, the Netherlands will soon be on its own and will not even have a veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	Just a little bit more about the other countries that supposedly looked at it better. Just for the facts that I can hardly or not catch Mr Van Dijck on in his entire speech. Norway and Switzerland do not decide what they do at all. They simply have to take over most of the regulations and they pay as much as the Netherlands. That's their actual situation. First you shake no and now you nod yes. That's how it is. Just admit that the other countries are no better off than the Netherlands. They have no way to talk to them. They will pay and they will have to follow all the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	These countries are much better off, because they cross their own borders. They're not participating in that European army of yours. They are not participating in the support operation for Greece. They are not participating in the madness and misery of the ECB that is being poured out on us. All these things have nothing to do with them. They are members of the internal market, they contribute a little bit, indeed, but that is not in proportion to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is making 8 billion and Switzerland does not even make 1 billion, half a billion, I believe. So what are you talking about? Don't scare the people now that the Swiss are worse off than the Dutch, because the Swiss have long had a trade agreement with China and the Netherlands still has to dream of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	I would like to repeat Mr Asscher's question. Is the PVV still in favour of a nexit, telling that whole story about all those other countries who supposedly looked at it so well and looking at the situation in the UK? Does the PVV still want to leave the European Union, looking at what is happening in the United Kingdom? Can Mr Van Dijck at least give a very brief and clear answer and not a long story with all half truths, whole lies and hollow rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yeah, sure, the sooner the better. From the euro and from the European Union. The European Union is making it a federal state, the united states of Europe, with a European army. There is even talk of an unemployment fund! Soon we will be able to pay for the unemployed in Spain and Italy. It shouldn't get weirder! They want to throw all the shit out of them. This means that the prosperity of the Netherlands has to be reduced by 30%, and that money goes all the way to Italy and Spain and they hope that prosperity will go up a little. That's not my Europe. We don't want that. That you trade with each other, that you make agreements with each other, fine, but we don't want to take the fall for the misery of southern Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	Conclusion: Mr Van Dijck's PVV is therefore leading the way to bringing the Netherlands into the same political and economic chaos as the United Kingdom. At least we have clarity about that. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	The light's coming out. It's awful. In fact, our Prime Minister has given 1.4 billion to prevent Unilever from setting up its headquarters in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u100	We are so afraid that the Brexit will be a success. Just before the figures, I have just received them: the contribution to the European Union per capita in Switzerland is €31, in the Netherlands €450. In other words, do not say that the Swiss pay as much as the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants to be in charge of our own house, boss of our own budget, our own borders, our own currency, our monetary policy, our own prosperity. The PVV is not going to stand by and watch our prosperity be transferred. We only see one solution: the next. Like the British, we want to leave under the yoke of Brussels. They chose sovereignty, freedom and identity. The best possible trade relationship with the British is also in the interest of the Netherlands. For this, the Netherlands should negotiate bilaterally with our British friends and not let the ears hang over Juncker and his associates. They are mostly in the EU interest and in their own interest. They hope that the Brexit will be a big mess as a signal to other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u101	I just wanted to say that I thought it was a wonderful story. I enjoyed it. I agree with everything Mr Van Dijck says. So compliments. This should actually be published, because this is a great argument. I have something to add. It is said here that Norway and Switzerland must adopt all this legislation. That is one of the many lies and propaganda stories that are always told about the EU. We had that checked out. Over the period 2000-2013, the EU has broken out 52.183 legal instruments. Norway has not taken over more than 4,500 of this. So that's only 9%. So that's not at all 75%, and that's all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u102	Your question to Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u103	It's more of a supplement. I just totally agree. It's a very commendable argument. I would also like to ask a question, but first I wanted to start with Iceland. We have also found out: how many legal instruments should Iceland have adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Baudet,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u105	Isn't this relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u107	I also think it is very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u108	An interruption is really meant for asking questions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u109	Shouldn't we even modernise this mores a little bit in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u110	Do you have a proposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u111	Of course you're absolutely right, Mr. Van Dijck. I'm saying the same thing. This is what's happening. How do we get these lunatics here in the House of Representatives and in the rest of Europe to understand this? That is, in fact, what this is about. Your speech is crystal clear. Anyone can follow this. Everyone sees it happen. Why don't they understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u112	There are people's representatives in the Chamber, not fools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u113	I often ask myself the same question: how naive can you be? You just see what we're running towards, including with the ECB's policy. Because with 4.5 trillion euros of junk on the balance sheet, it's gonna be a real bubble that's gonna burst apart. And then it's end of practice, then the end of the Netherlands and then we can start all over again at the point where our ancestors once started, before World War I. Then it's buffaloing again. I think it is simply a shame that we waste our prosperity and our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u114	Why can't they see it? Why can't these people see this behind me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u115	That's a good question. I would say: put him to Mr Buma and in a moment to Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr President, thank you. I begin by congratulating my colleague Lilian Marijnissen on the party leadership of the SP. The Socialist Party is becoming a little bit of a family business, but okay. I'll start with the Brexit. DENK welcomes the steps taken in the negotiations and welcomes the agreements on the civil rights of EU citizens and the citizens of the United Kingdom and the agreements on the bill. The agreements on the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland still need to be discussed, because we are far from there. What follow-up does the Prime Minister see on the agreement and how will he work for greater clarity on, for example, the residence permit for citizens? My next point concerns political legitimacy. A European Minister for Finance is in full swing. A European Defence Fund is being developed. Dutch taxpayers' money is put into all kinds of emergency funds to help poorly performing countries. This brings me to a point that I have been thinking about for several weeks. A few weeks ago, the Finance Committee held a hearing on the future of Economic and Monetary Union. If there is one theme that I have included, it is that almost all institutions question the political legitimacy. There really isn't enough at the moment. Less than half of European citizens have confidence in the EU. More transparency and more democracy are needed. Indeed, the EU has not been able to respond to the major challenges of recent times: the banking crisis and the migration crisis, but also the unfair competition from migrant workers from Eastern Europe. What will the Prime Minister do to restore this confidence? I come to the permanent structured cooperation on security and defence. It has already been discussed by a number of speakers. In beautiful policy poetry, this cooperation is also referred to as PESCO. DENK supports European cooperation in the field of defence so that the European Union can offer security to its citizens. Because the time when European countries could lean on the United States is really over. This is especially true now that the cooperation with Trump is very similar to the Dutch climate in winter: it can thaw, it can freeze. You can never count on it. In the description of PESCO, we read about agreements, investments and EU-flagged missions. DENK does set clear frameworks. Cooperation in the fields of knowledge, coordination of systems and small-scale integration is fine, but investment in defence and broadcasting of troops must always remain a national matter. Can the Prime Minister guarantee this? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the Council conclusions on education and culture. The cabinet states that EU initiatives should focus, inter alia, on equal treatment. We think that's very good. Very good, Prime Minister. We think it's wonderful that you think equal opportunities are so important. But in practice things aren't going so well. This was demonstrated in September by a large-scale study by a European institute of 10,500 Muslims in 15 different EU countries. European Muslims have become more gloomy about their position in society over the last ten years. They are lagging behind in the labour market. They suffer from ethnic profiling. I read today that they're being passed as house-seekers at the housing market. That is why we say to the Prime Minister: fighting is not a solution; you can do better than that. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue for a European alliance against Muslim discrimination at the forthcoming summit, with a shared package of European measures? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the issue of migration. Where the Netherlands comply with the already tight agreements, a number of Central and Eastern European countries are suffocating the refugees. Donald Tusk wants to release the mandatory division. Right, is my first question to the Prime Minister. How does he feel about this compulsory division being abandoned? DENK won't let go of that division. European solidarity means that all countries must contribute; the desires and the burdens. That principle must not be undermined by, among other things, Hungarian President Orbán, with xenophobic and Islamophobic statements. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the recognition by Trump of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. In an unnecessary and ill-advised way, the US government used this to throw oil on the fire of the conflict between Israel and Palestine, which has been going on for decades. This frustrates the peace process and reduces the prospect of a two-state solution. DENK is clear: recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, with an embassy, is, in view of the fact that the Israeli Government has illegally occupied East Jerusalem and is violating UN resolutions, totally, but totally unacceptable. Does the Prime Minister share this view of DENK? Is he prepared to confirm the EU-led consensus at the summit meeting between EU foreign chief Mogherini and Netanyahu? Is he prepared to propose at the summit to emphasise to the US at European level that Trump's step is extremely unwise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, a united states of Europe, which Schulz is dreaming of, is not a resounding perspective, especially if you look at how things are going in the Union now. Most European citizens are not waiting for it. With such a course, you stir up the scepticism about Europe and push the voter towards the political flanks. The Christian Union is therefore satisfied with the Dutch direction it has chosen towards the European Union: constructive, focused on cooperation, but also realistic. For example, when it comes to the stability of the euro, let us really maintain existing fiscal rules and ensure that banks and investors save themselves as soon as the vote on the economy changes and the next banking crisis comes. Let us not think of new institutions before Europe, and especially EMU, functions properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u120	I hear it said here that the Christian Union is not in favour of a united Europe. What if someone could prove, or could make it convincingly clear, that a united states of Europe is an inevitable terminal of the EU train, would the Christian Union be with us and with the PVV for exit from the European Union? So it's a question. Suppose this could be proven, would he be for a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u121	With people like Juncker, Macron, Schulz and Angela Merkel, that train is actually already going on. The Christian Union is not in favour of the direction these statesmen take in neighbouring countries. At the same time, we want to fight from our country to ensure, with the important concept of subsidiarity, that we influence Europe, so that the train does not go that way. For that, we really need to stay in it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u122	Very good, but that's not my question, is it? My question is: if someone could argue convincingly that the European Union inevitably leads to a federal state, would Mr Bruins be in favour of exit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u123	As long as we are sovereign as a parliament, that is not convincing to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u124	That's not my question. My question is a yes-no question. There can be a yes or no answer to that. Any other word is to avoid the question. So it's either yes or no. Those are the only two options to this question. I'm sorry. It's a closed question: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u125	Ask-dan questions are always great at student societies and at philosophy clubs, but I like to stick to politics. I'm not going to ask you questions, but I'd like to have a cup of coffee with Mr Baudet to think about these kinds of scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u126	I remember being quite in line with Carola Schouten in the past. I am glad that the Christian Union is part of this cabinet. All hope is now based on the Christian Union to be able to pull the brakes in Europe and not let the train go down to the abyss and the united states of Europe. What kind of assignment do you, as a Christian Union, give your Prime Minister about what he should say in Europe next Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u127	It is very nice that Mr Van Dijck has given me the opportunity to make clear what I want to give the Prime Minister. That is in fact the core of my contribution, which I hope to be able to make clear in five minutes. Thank you for the honour that all hope of the PVV is based on the Christian Union. That is a huge burden on our shoulders. Yes, we are there to pull the hand brake when the train is heading in the direction of a united states of Europe. I have just heard Mr Van Dijck's contribution. I'm sure I share parts of his analysis. I find it very difficult to use words such as 'beautiful countries' and 'expropriation of our country' in this house, or when Mr Baudet's colleagues, like myself, are called 'crazy'. I'm sorry, but then I can't be on your side in this discussion. In substance, we could get so much further if we chose the right words here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u128	We're here for content, not semantics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u129	That's exactly what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u130	I assume that you choose what is best for the Netherlands and for the Dutch citizens, and that does not depend on semantics, because the latter do not deserve the citizens of the Netherlands. They deserve a popular representative who represents everyone, regardless of semantics and purely content. If you, as a representative of the Christian Union, say that you fully agree with the contents of the PVV, you will give this Prime Minister a mandate to Brussels not to opt for further expansion of funds, loans and gifts towards southern European banks and countries. That is your message, because that is the transfer union we are going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u131	Let me reply briefly and satisfactorily. With that last clause, with everything after Mr Van Dijck's last comma, I agree. That will indeed be my message to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u132	Okay. Then I suggest that you continue to share that message with us, because you said that you have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u133	Sure. Mr. Chairman. While the economic boom seems to appease Member States and the much-needed reforms in a number of Member States, Draghi continues its "what ever it takes" policy, albeit at a lower rate but still at 30 billion a month. DNB President Klaas Knot sees the gap in the dike and has put his finger in it by pleading for a total dismantling of the buy-back program. My question to the Prime Minister is: is he holding Klaas Knot's finger? The question is, of course, how do you reduce this unprecedented monetary expansion without damage, how do you manage the balance sheet risks and how, despite the questionable monetary policy that works as a kind of sleeping pill for countries that are lagging behind, the much-needed reforms in France and Italy are being implemented? I'd like a response. Then there is the future of EMU and the reflection paper. First of all, let me say that the line of the coalition agreement in this matter and of the letter from the rulers of Finance and Foreign Affairs appeals to my group, but that letter has sometimes been formulated somewhat inflamed. Because why is there insufficient convergence between Member States? Why not just acknowledge that since the arrival of the euro there has been divergence? Anyway, what worries me is that the government's line is not common sense in the euro area at all. Moreover, there is more than a dash of light between the European Commission's reflection paper and the commitment of this cabinet. How does the Prime Minister assess this? How likely does he think he is to achieve the cabinet commitment? Does he have enough allies and can he make the Franco-German axis move his way? The Christian Union sees an opportunity to offer Euro-realistic counterweight, I say to Mr Van Dijck and to the Prime Minister, with countries such as Finland, Sweden and Austria. Are they not the partners with whom we must forge an alternative plan for a realistic European future? One based not only on ideas of politicians but also on public support. Perhaps I would remind the Prime Minister once again that, at the euro summit, 14 and 15 December will be the order of his commitment: first, to stick to old agreements and as a Member State, to put your own house in order and then to reschedule new agreements. Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said about the Brexit. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the current situation means to our growers in the Westland and to our fishermen. Fishing will be one of the major battle points in the coming year. Is the Prime Minister ready to stand up for our fishermen and for the agricultural sector as a whole and our manufacturing industry? Then I come to migration policy. The proposal of Council President Tusk has already been mentioned. Does the Prime Minister have an alternative and what does he think of the possibility of reducing subsidies for countries that do not want to contribute to burden-sharing in the area of migration? With regard to Libya, I agree with the questions put by Mr Van Ojik to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also has concerns about the European Defence Fund: the opportunities for our own industry, but also about the plans for financing this fund in the future. What does the Prime Minister think about this? We hear that the European Parliament has adopted a resolution to form a permanently integrated European army. Is that idea coming up at the upcoming summit? Then how will the Prime Minister react to that? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with the European Social Summit almost a month ago. I agree with Mr Verhoeven's questions on the social summit, with one more question. The Netherlands wants a fair and deeper internal market with equal pay for equal work as a starting point. What is meant by a "deeper internal market"? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the principle of subsidiarity. In this context, I would like to know the consequences of the social summit on government policy and on the Prime Minister's attitude at the forthcoming summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr. Chairman. Because of my very limited speaking time, only five minutes, I will give little reflection and in particular ask questions to the Prime Minister. I'll start with the migration. How will the Prime Minister respond to the suggestion made by the President-in-Office of the Council, Donald Tusk, to refrain from the distribution of migrants between the EU countries? Commissioner Timmermans said on Sunday in Buitenhof I have it breathless, but also with a different feeling, completely listening that that would only affect the future. In other words, he actually said: everything stays with the old, but this was a reflection. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what he thinks of Tusk's view. I also understand that this morning the European Commission and the European Parliament reacted quite strongly to the words of Tusk. Then there is European defence cooperation in the framework of PESCO and EDF. Of course, the British will no longer participate in this, but are there any ideas about cooperation in this area? Swedish former Prime Minister Carl Bildt said on Saturday in the NRC that a quarter of European defence expenditure is British. In his view, European coordination in the field of defence systems and weapons systems is difficult and very limited without the United Kingdom. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Then Brexit. There seems to be sufficient progress on the three issues that have already been discussed earlier today. How does the Prime Minister assess the statements made by British negotiator David Davis at the BBC on Sunday? Davis sees Friday's agreement only as a declaration of intent. One of my colleagues mentioned it as a gentleman's agreement this morning; at least that is from the British media. According to Davis, the British will not comply with its commitments until there is a full agreement on the future trade relationship and a transitional period of two years. Is it then an interim agreement, is it a provisional agreement, or is it, I think, actually an agreement to not disagree and nothing more than that? After months of rolling down the street, there's something really thin ahead. How does the Prime Minister interpret paragraph 96 of Friday's agreement? It clearly states that an agreement will only be reached if the trade relationship and the transitional period have also been agreed. That paragraph has apparently been introduced at the initiative of the United Kingdom. How does the Prime Minister assess the progress Davis has made in the future trade relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom, referred to as "Canada plus, plus, plus"? That's a big deal. Nothing is wrong until everything is wrong. Well, that's very little. At 50PLUS there is also surprise about the verdict of SPD leader Martin Schulz, who dreams of a sort of united states of Europe in 2025. In his view, those who do not feel that should leave the Union. The Prime Minister and many with him assumed that Merkel was going to be drawn to the middle of Macron by the FDP and the hot breath of the AfD. I said something about it this morning in the event of interruption, but no, the opposite seems to be happening now. Lindner read the Dutch coalition agreement and then left with the northern sun. The question now is whether Merkel is not being drawn very much to the left by an SPD leader who is talking about the practical lifting of the European nation states. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister. Does he share the fear of 50PLUS that the German-French axis will increasingly determine policy in the Union? What is he going to do to mobilise other countries against this? The future of EMU and the banking union will be discussed at the Euro Summit on Friday morning. The aim is to create a time frame for decision-making. The formal decision on the concrete legislative proposals will not be taken on Friday, but the Prime Minister cannot tell us that it is not going to be an important discussion. There's too much at stake for that. See the wishes of the Commission and Macron. I'd like a response. The government position on EMU and the Commission's other proposals is broadly clear. 50PLUS agrees with the view that any plans to deepen monetary union will become superfluous if other countries bring their deficit below 3% and their sovereign debt below 60%. That has been discussed before. According to the Cabinet, there should also be sufficient risk reduction before a European deposit guarantee scheme can be negotiated. What is the strategy of the cabinet now? Should we not, as the Netherlands, make our position much clearer? Are we not in danger of gradually being messed up in all kinds of structures that we do not want, because in Brussels, Paris and Berlin there is no silence? Mr. Chairman. The European Commission wants to bring the Eurogroup and the ESM emergency fund, which is now run by 19 governments, under the EU roof from intergovernmental to European Union. That's a very big step. In this context, I would like to point out that the non-euro countries are for the first time at a Eurogroup meeting on Friday morning, and that already indicates what we are talking about. According to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Tusk, the negotiations will begin on Friday, which will lead to the strengthening of monetary union in June, because then decisions will be taken. We will closely monitor the Prime Minister in this process. 50PLUS states that every step, no matter how small, must first be submitted to the Chamber. Again, we don't want to be lured into it. Finally, Mr President. We would like to hear a view from the Prime Minister on which direction to go. Juncker, Macron, Merkel and Schultz are now at the drawing table of EMU, and the Dutch coalition agreement is not the starting point. The Netherlands will have to make it clear to Germany and France that it wants and needs to be at the table, to set our course together with like-minded countries. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Why do we find this? We are very concerned about the gap between citizens and politics. And if we do not get good support in the Netherlands to bring Dutch interests into that German-French discussion, then only confidence in the future of Europe will exist. And that's the last thing we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u136	And you would speak so briefly, you said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u137	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but five minutes is very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u138	All right, I'll go to Mr. Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. People want the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems, such as security, climate and migration, so that they feel that the European Union is there for them. Many people, many Dutch people, also regret that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. It is now a matter of keeping the damage of that departure as small as possible. If you look at the EU, you see roughly three views. You see some people rushing through, they want a federal European Union. Some people want to get rid of the European Union, they want to get out, they want it to collapse. And you can see parties between them, including the VVD, saying: we want the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems and that countries keep to the agreements. We are talking about the forthcoming European summit, and an important issue is the Brexit. Relations between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are very intensive. We export for 40 billion, we import for nearly 30 billion and 162,000 trucks go to the United Kingdom every year. And what's gonna happen to those trucks if those checks come back? Then we get all kinds of traffic jams. Behind all those numbers lies work, real jobs for real people. So these negotiations are extremely important for the Netherlands. That is why it is important for us too that there is indeed sufficient progress, sufficient progress, so that we can move on to the next stage of the negotiations on the future relationship. So that is good news for us, but a number of colleagues have already said this: how stable is the outcome of the first phase? If you first see Frans Timmermans at Buitenhof but before that you looked at Andrew Marshall of the BBC, you saw David Davis, who said: yes, this agreement is mainly a declaration of intent. As Mr Buma said, the reaction then came as to whether it was a gentlemen's agreement from the Commission. We also read in the newspapers that the Sherpas, the right-hands of the Heads of Government negotiating in the EU, have therefore again strengthened the negotiating directives. Someone's laughing in the back room. Sherpa, yes. What's the deal with that? Has that indeed happened now and is it stable? And what does this mean in the talks with the United Kingdom on Thursday? It has been said a number of times: the first phase is still relatively easy, however difficult it was. The second phase will be more difficult, because it may be that the interests of the countries are opposed. Is the Netherlands now well prepared for that second phase? Because the Brexit rapporteurs, Pieter Omtzigt, Kees Verhoeven and myself, have already asked about this, but we would like to hear it in this debate. Is the Netherlands well prepared for that second phase? Do we have an idea of what the interests of our sectors are, what we want on the table with Mr Barnier, and do we have allies? This is gonna be a smart negotiation. Now the Prime Minister has shown in Europe that he can; look at the Turkey deal, whatever you think. And last but not least in attracting the European Medicines Agency; excellent lobbying work. That is what is needed at this stage. So is the Netherlands prepared and how are we going to do that? At the same time, we must continue to be prepared for a no-deal scenario. The British in their cabinet still do not know what these future relationships mean. I also sometimes have the impression that they have a little too high expectations, that such a trade agreement is easy to conclude. We're already together, we can stay together as much as we can, we just have to look at where we're different. Unlike Canada, where the countries did not belong together, some of the British think this should be settled within a few months. And they think: now that we are going to pay a number of billions, the European Union is inclined to agree to it. This lack of consensus in the British cabinet, the different expectations, with still a number of irrational British politicians who think they are better off outside the EU than in that, still makes it fragile. I'd like a response to that. How will the Netherlands prepare for a no-deal scenario? What does that mean for the inspection service? What does that mean for the Marechaussee? What does that mean for customs? On the future agenda of the European Union, the leaders' agenda. Last Monday we also received a letter on the European identity of the cabinet. The European Commission wants to strengthen this European identity. The cabinet says: we do not really know what the European identity is. Is there really a European identity, I ask Mr Rutte. Then what is the binder in the European Union? Another subject, migration. Something has already been said about that. President Tusk of the Council said that the quota policy is actually ineffective. You can see that. It poisons the debate in Europe. Parliamentarians in Poland and Hungary have the feeling that majority decision-making has pushed things down their throats that they really do not want. Is it wise then, these quotas? Does the Prime Minister agree with Mr Tusk that it is ineffective? Shouldn't you have talked about quotas a little longer? Do you need to go to more positive incentives? So countries that receive refugees get a little more money for that shelter. A little more friendly, a little less toxic. The future of the euro area has been called for. There are no concrete decisions before it, only procedural agreements. How does the Prime Minister see this process and where does it lead? Mr Van Rooijen already asked: do we, as usual when steps are taken, get to hear this as a Chamber in advance? Finally, I will conclude, Madam President. At the next summit in February, an informal summit, institutional matters are on the agenda, in short, what we are doing with the British seats that are being released. How is this decision-making going? What is on the table and what can we expect from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr Mulder asked, referring to my speech, when are we going to hear it from the Prime Minister? Can he clarify that in the sense that we should not only hear it in advance, but also approve it, or does he think that a bridge too far from the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u141	We had a little debate on this with the Foreign Minister recently. He said aptly: too early, too early, too late. We have to prevent that. We need to be there in time as a parliament, so that we have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u142	How do you see that? Would you also like to have a position from the Chamber that the Prime Minister can take with you in good time? Last week in Brussels, we were told by the Permanent Representative that this type of debate is taking place throughout Europe at the moment. I think it's important that Mr Mulder was there to say clearly what he thinks is the position of the Chamber as part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u143	As usual, the Chamber must be informed in good time and be able to influence decision-making. When it comes to the agenda for the Foreign Minister, I also asked the Prime Minister how we will ensure that it is not too early, too early, too late. That is an important question, because there is something at stake for the Netherlands in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u144	I would like to come back to something, because this is the first opportunity to ask Mr Mulder to do so. He said on 27 September in a BNR interview that he liked such a minister of finance and economic affairs. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u145	I think Mr Van Dijck should take a step back when he looks at what I have said. I said that we should not think so much in institutions and in titles, but we should think in our interests. What do we want Europe to do? The point is that we must ensure that a number of colleagues have also indicated that, for example, budgetary commitments are being complied with. That's the point. Whatever the title is of whoever does it, that's something else. It's about what our interests are. We need to get them on the table. We have to deal with that. The name of the person who does that is of a second order. That is what I am talking about: maintaining the Dutch interests when it comes to budgetary rules. It has to be done. How? That's question two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u146	Nor will such a finance minister be able to do so, because these countries are doing what they themselves think is right for their country and for their people. France will not be forced by Mr Mulder. He can say: you have to retire for 70 years, but France is just doing what it thinks is right for its people and saying: we are simply going to retire for 60 years, Mr Mulder, too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think that is a bit defeatist of Mr Van Dijck, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u148	Isn't that what France does? No one in the European Commission has already managed to get France to pursue a different policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u149	And your question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u150	What does Mr Mulder think of these proposals, given that the government agreement does not include a transfer union? Does he find turning the ESM into an EMF a form of a transfer union or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u151	There is a lot of talk about the European Commission. I've learned a little bit to respond to that directly. This autumn, Mr Juncker presented a state of the union. Halfway through, he said that was his personal opinion. The views of the European Commission are mainly those of the European Commission. The question is what is on the table at the European Council, because that is where the decisions are taken. That's where we have to keep our finger on the wrist. Of course, we must be alert because we have very important interests in the future of the euro area. We must be careful, but we must not let the European Commission and Mr Juncker get in the way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u152	What's on the table? There is, among other things, a European Monetary Fund, which Mr Rutte has said he sees something in it. I do not hear the VVD saying in this speech: we should not want that, we should not use the 500 billion earmarked as emergency aid to recapitalise banks, to buy bonds on the primary market, because that fund is not intended for that purpose. Why don't you tell me? You're just gonna let it go. You're acting a little skeptical here in this house, but in the end you're signing for a federal union and you're thinking, "Oh, did I sign for that? That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u153	The question is, what table is what? Who's gonna decide? That is the European Council. What's on the table over there? For now, only court agreements. So let's see what's on the table. I told you, we have to be careful, our interests are great. But Mr Van Dijck sometimes seems to have an interest in shouting: 'it goes on, it goes on and on' in response to Juncker, who is not on the table, at least his proposals are not. It is about what is on the table in that Council and that is what we must focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u154	I think you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u155	Yeah, I'm done. My last question was about the informal summit in two months' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Bishop, I propose that we suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u157	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue with the debate on the European Summit. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr. Chairman. Recently, our Prime Minister was proclaimed by POLITICO as one of the 28 most influential people in Europe. I can imagine that this has fulfilled a boy's dream and I would like to congratulate him on this wonderful achievement. According to POLITICO, Prime Minister Rutte would put his colleagues Merkel and Macron on the ground if they were to push for closer integration. Those are great perspectives. The big question then is, of course, how exactly our Prime Minister will use this influential position. Doesn't his pragmatic attitude lead us to move gradually towards that European superstate? Even if the Prime Minister consistently makes a strong Euro-critical or euro-realistic sound in the Brussels meeting rooms, his message will not just land, I fear. Like all kinds of proposals, the Franco-German ambition of more EU is being fully pursued. What is the alternative that our Prime Minister is going to offer to the Franco-German bloc of power? Although there is no decision-making, we thought it would be a good time to give some hand-outs. The SGP believes that with many of the plans that have now been and are being launched, the EU will end up on a dead end if they continue. My group calls for a thorough reform of the EU. I've mentioned that before. At the beginning of next year, we hope to present an own-initiative paper on this subject, and this can all be assessed in conjunction with colleagues. To sum up, this note is based on the fact that the EU must confine itself to its core tasks. Key words are: optimal flexibility and differentiated integration. These seem to be some complicated terms, but in short, 'optimal flexibility' means that the rules do not lead to ever more single sausage but that the individuality of the Member States is preserved. That does not stand in the way of good cooperation at all. We also find the Council of State on our side. "Different integration" means that Member States are given the opportunity to participate in certain matters less, not or no longer. Do not allow Member States to always be confronted with a flow of proposals from the European Commission which constantly undermine sovereignty. Is the Prime Minister prepared to urge his colleagues to reform the EU towards a more modest, flexible and differentiated partnership? For the sake of short, I would like to ask a few questions, first of all about PESCO, that permanent, structural cooperation in the field of defence. The SGP itself sees the value of European defence cooperation, but our dilemma is that every time you look at the EU, you see that it goes on one step at a time. The question now is how to prevent us from concluding in ten years' time that we have actually gone much further towards a European army than was intended. How can we get the comfort that things are going well here, I ask the Prime Minister. Now that the Netherlands will participate in PESCO, we ask the Cabinet to be reluctant to participate in all kinds of projects in view of the general condition of our armed forces. Then there is the social dimension: education and culture. The Netherlands has been bombarded with Commission proposals in these areas in recent weeks. Can the Prime Minister assure us that he will make every effort to ensure that these areas remain within the national competences that the EU should keep as far away from as possible, and that there is only cooperation on those areas where it is really in the country's interest to take cross-border decisions? I'm getting to the point of migration. Does the cabinet support President Donald Tusk's idea of releasing mandatory national quotas for the reception of refugees? And if not, why not? And what about the contours of a new system of redistribution? Finally, I will, of course inevitably, come to the Brexit. The SGP Group welcomes the interim agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU. What does the government think of the British desire to achieve a kind of Canada-plus partnership? The final question is: how are Dutch interests thoroughly and optimally represented in this Brexit violence? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u159	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you. "Fata duckt volentem, noletem tramunt." That's a beautiful word from ancient times. It means as much as: those who are aware of the train and where it is going may be able to adjust it a bit. But whosoever understandeth not, and knoweth not, shall be drawn by it. Of course, you didn't have trains in those days, but that's the modern metaphor. Fate is pulling us forward. I think it is very important to apply this to the European Union. It is very important to understand what the European Union really is and what is actually the dynamic of the European Union itself, so that we can then take our position on it. And that is not happening, or at least far too little. I have listened carefully to all the different ministers who gave their views on the forthcoming European Council. And what you keep seeing is that you all think that your opinion of the European Union is relevant, that what we want matters and that it even matters what we possibly decide. In theory, the European Council can, of course, decide something, such as 'less EU' or so, as Mr Bishop just said. But that kind of decision too is completely irrelevant because there is an internal dialectic and dynamic of the European Union that is constantly drawing more power from it, whether it likes it or not. And that is because a number of fundamental issues are regulated centrally, namely the euro coin, those open borders, the way in which the internal market is structured through a lot of harmonisation rules. And that's going to draw more and more power to it, whether you want it or not. So the only relevant question is whether we want a united states of Europe in the end. If we do not want to do so, there is only one option, namely to leave the European Union. Then the whole question is whether or not this Brexit will produce a little more or a little less money in the short term and whether it will make us a little poorer or a little richer, not at all. These are two structural systems, two options, and everything else is intellectual laziness and a lack of overview. You'll be pulled through if you don't want to see where that train is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u161	I have a question for Mr Baudet. Suppose someone could prove beyond doubt that the only way to prevent a united states of Europe is to walk along and pull the wheel as hard as possible, or the whistle of the steam locomotive, to warn everyone that that is not the way the Netherlands wants to go. If someone could prove that beyond doubt, would Mr Baudet choose not to want a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u162	Unlike Mr Bruins, I simply answer yes or no questions, as well as questions. Of course, if that were the case, if reality were different from that, then I would indeed not be in favour of a nexit. But that reality is not so. It is absurd that you could only prevent a united states of Europe by staying in the EU, rather than simply going out, because that would of course have nothing to do with those united states of Europe. This is an absurd thought, but, yeah, if it were, I wouldn't be for a nexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u163	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u164	I would just like to briefly repeat the points that have already been raised, those lies that are always being presented. Norway and Switzerland pay the full pound, but cannot take part in the decision, have to take over all the rules, but cannot talk along. That's just bullshit. Between 2000 and 2013, i.e. a period of 13 years, the EU created 52.183 legal instruments. These are directives, harmonisations and so on. Norway has only taken over 4.742 of this, i.e. only 9%. Not all the other stuff. Iceland took over 10% over a similar period. What the hell are these countries paying for? Norway has already been mentioned: about €30 per capita to have access to European markets and the Netherlands pays €450 per capita for EU membership. So there too you see all kinds of fakes. But my fundamental point is another. Even if all these things were not the case, even if it would cost us a little more money to get out, the fundamental question is whether we want that terminal or not. Do we want that unified-state-of-Europe model, as Schulz and all kinds of others have called it? If so, then all these debates are in fact not very relevant either. If not, then these debates are not so relevant, because then we simply have to get out. The European Union is not a matter of opinion, of opinion. There is an internal dynamic that you cannot change with a vision or with an opinion. That is so set up, that is so invented by its founders. That is also extensively written down by Ernst Haas and all kinds of others. It would be fantastic if we could find a moment here when that insight is going down, then we can bring the discussion to a much higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you. Oh, Mr Asscher had another question for you. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u166	I wonder if Mr Baudet thinks that after the Netherlands is out of the European Union, we should trade with those countries and whether you should stay in the internal market, as the PVV just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u167	My own view is that the internal market suffers from a structural problem, which consists of the following difference. You can have free trade on the basis of harmonisation rules and recognition rules. The European Union has indicated, among other things, in the case of crème de cassis and in a number of other court cases, that recognition rules would in principle be better. But there are a lot of harmonisation rules: free trade within the internal market is governed by a lot of harmonisation rules rather than by recognition rules, and that is not in the interests of the Netherlands, which is not in the interests of a relatively small country. Secondly, and in addition to this: these harmonisation rules also contain a great deal of implicit protectionism, and that too is not good for the Netherlands, a country that wants to deal with growth markets, such as Asia, Latin America, Africa and other places. It is very important to realise that the European Union is not only an instrument for free trade, but also an instrument for re-channeling trade flows, in particular within the European continent and not outside. One of the great arguments of the whole Brexit has been that the British said: listen, we need to trade more and more with European continental countries, but growth is just outside, and that is why we want to separate ourselves from that internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u168	Okay. I do not think that these British people are very sorry to have to trade with the European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u169	That is implicit because of the harmonisation rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u170	You say that the British want to leave the European Union, because they felt that they should always trade with European countries, when they were restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u171	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u172	I'm just trying to go along with that reasoning. The British say Brexit is Brexit, we're just gonna get out. Theresa May also says: Brexit is Brexit. Then they find out that nobody knows what that means. They want to keep all the nice things. They want employment, they want trade, they want access. They are now very surprised that the Medical Agency has left. They don't want all the other things. But that's not how it works, of course. I therefore think it is more honest if you say that this is a fundamental moment in history if you indicate where you are going. I think there is more to say than: do you want to or not in the European Union? The Union is there and you must be able to describe what that would mean for the Netherlands. The Netherlands will then be outside the internal market. Mr Baudet will have to acknowledge that 'it costs a little more' would be a lot more. It costs incredibly much money and incredibly many jobs and creates uncertainty and insecurity. It would be wrong for him to say now: they are lies and we are frightened. We are going to discuss the facts. At the moment it is visible in the United Kingdom that if you do not make it clear where you want to go, there will be enormous uncertainty and chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u173	The best commentators on Brexit say: Brexit is not a moment, but a process. Something that took 40 years from the beginning of the 1970s, when the United Kingdom joined, until the moment they decided to leave, for which, by the way, you can't completely undo, erase and start something new from one day to the next. The day on which the Brexit takes place, the authors I say have understood correctly are the day when the United Kingdom can begin to separate itself from the EU. That's why they've said: you know what, we're just gonna take over everything at first, and then we don't have to think about it, and then we're gonna play law by law, rule by rule that peels off all those EU rules. Then we go quietly, at the moment we have all the time, look: that's a good thing and that's not helpful. So Brexit isn't a moment, it's a trial. It's something that starts on the day of actual retirement. The day of actual retirement will look about the same as the day before. That day does not change so much, but over a number of years you will see that the United Kingdom can make much more transparent democratic decisions. That is obvious, because we will no longer be bound by all those things in Brussels. Secondly, it is much better to focus the economy and society as a whole on where there is growth, where the customers are, the clients, the consumers, namely in the growing parts of the world. And that's not the European mainland, but that's Asia, that's Africa, that's America. So the British choose the world and therefore actually choose global rather than the provincialism of the EU, which all these countries want to keep together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u174	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u175	In addition to commenting and saying who does and does not do well, I think it is important that we also develop a vision and debate in politics about how to see the future of the Netherlands in front of you. In doing so, it is very important to indicate whether or not the Netherlands will drive free trade, whether or not you want standards that are intended to protect the environment and to protect workers. That's what's pinching now. I think it is in the interests of workers in Europe to experience this protection. I therefore find it very regrettable that we do not hear much about this now. I think voters have a right to hear not only swollen lyrics about what is not good, but also where you want to go with the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u176	I have been very specific about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u177	The reviews of yourself are very positive. I have already noticed that, but the question is what kind of gamble you take with the Dutch interests when you shout: we leave the European Union and then everything gets better, when you can see close by that that is not true. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u178	I don't think you can see at all that that wouldn't be true. In addition, I would like to mention a number of other things. There is also something like the World Trade Organisation. It's very relevant to look at that. This is an organization which, in fact, would like to make similar basic agreements in many respects if, as I hear Mr Asscher say, we should have in Europe with the European countries. However, these agreements relate to many more countries, because they really are a global organisation. I am also critical of the World Trade Organisation on other points, but of course it is not true that there are no agreements between countries outside the European Union. We almost all have an iPhone. If you look at the back of that, there's something like: designed in California, manufactured in China. That kind of text. Neither the United States nor China has a specific trade agreement. Of course, the United States is in the World Trade Organisation, but we do not have an internal market with these countries. We do excellent business with it, clients are protected, consumers are protected and so on. So it is absolutely fundamental that there is nothing outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u179	Thank you to Mr Baudet for going into yes-no questions. I'd like to take you with me. Suppose there's a president in America who takes protectionist measures. Let me say that this President is going to impose sanctions or to impose more taxes on foreign goods, for example from the European Union. Is it easier, in such a case, to make agreements of 500 million people as an internal market and thus to force negotiating power towards the United States, or is it easier if you are with 17 million people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u180	It's easier if you're a sovereign country, like the Netherlands. The reason is very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u181	That wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u182	No, but Mr Baudet is working on answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u183	The question was whether this would be easier to do as an EU country or as the Netherlands? It's easier to do that as the Netherlands. The argument behind that is very simple. You can only negotiate well or make a deal when you know what you want. All these different European countries have very different economies and therefore very different interests. For example, France has put in place quite a few protectionist measures for its audiovisual industry. Amélie Poulain and all kinds of artists and artists must be promoted there, 20% to 25% of the music must be French and a number of other things. The Netherlands, on the contrary, has huge exports in the audiovisual industry. We don't have Afrojack for example that I listen to that and all kinds of things like that. This is consumed worldwide and therefore also in the US. For example, if you want to make a deal with an American president or Congress or at least with an American government, you have a huge problem if you represent both France and the Netherlands. What exactly are you supposed to want? What kind of deal do you have to make? Do you want to or don't you want to have open markets? This applies to dairy farms, textile products and the car industry. That goes for almost everything. That is why there is always a compromise that is good for no one. It's the same if you were to design one suit for all the people here in the House of Representatives. That suit wouldn't suit anyone, when if everyone bought their own suit, you'd get people as beautifully dressed as the people standing across from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u184	That was a really long yes-no answer to a very simple question, because there was much more than a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u185	I thought I'd explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u186	That is possible, but you are not telling me that your negotiating power is greater if you want to make agreements with 17 million potential consumers with a large country? That's not what you're telling your constituents, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u187	I can prove it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u188	You have just spoken in detail, but what I believe is that we are looking for cooperation at European level in the matters we share and not in the differences. You are now indicating a simple difference, specifically the music industry in France. It is a fact that 70% of our gross national product depends on abroad. What matters to me is that, as an individual country, it is very difficult for us to play out our power in the real things we want to discuss. You need other countries, don't you? If you don't, wouldn't America go much faster to a France or an England?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u189	So there's no evidence of that. I know that's what they always say. It's always repeated. That is the main argument of the whole EU project: oh, we are so small and nobody wants to talk to us. Iceland simply has a free trade deal with Japan and also with China, while the European Union is failing to make such a deal. Singapore and South Korea are small countries that are doing very well. So if you're just gonna look at what the world looks like today, there's no sign that the small countries are being ignored and bullied by everyone. It's just not true! One other point: the world is also too...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u190	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u191	I understand your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u192	I wanted to add something else, because I don't have the impression that you fully understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u193	No, I understood you correctly. You bring in a lot of stuff every time. I would like to point out that Iceland, as an economy, has almost been destroyed by the fact that one bank distributed far too many loans there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u194	Iceland, on the other hand, is the only country that has recovered strongly from this enormous credit crisis. Indeed, after a devaluation and a huge haircut that had been impossible within the Eurozone, Iceland has very quickly recovered the problem of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u195	I would like to refer to Mr Baudet's remark just now that Brexit is not so much a moment as a process. I found that an intriguing argument in the sense that he added that the Brexit is actually the result of a 40-year process. I had the impression that the Brexit wasn't in the picture, not even in Cameron's, until he was forced by some of his supporters in the Chamber, in Parliament, to promise a referendum to be re-elected and to keep the party and government going. But he promised to see that referendum without the risks of the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u196	I think everyone knows history.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u197	My question is this. It's not a 40-year trial, but it was Cameron who took a guess that went wrong. We've got the fried pears now. This applies both to the people of England and to Europe. It's not like this is a normal outcome of an evolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u198	Then I either expressed it in a clumsy way or you misunderstood me. I meant to say that the United Kingdom has been in the EU for 40 years. So it has been a process of interconnection of about 40 years. Now they've announced they're going out. You can't undo those 40 years in one go. From the moment they actually get out, the United Kingdom will slowly but surely set its own course. In that sense, Brexit is a process. It starts on the day that the United Kingdom actually leaves. In a year or five or a year or seven it becomes relevant to start evaluating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u199	Then you have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr Baudet also said: if you simply get out, as the British have done, we have nothing to do with the European Union anymore. I have already asked Mr Baudet the following question: do you have an answer on the consequences that this has for the British people in particular and for the English economy? You can say you're out and you have nothing to do with it anymore, but you do suffer the consequences. They are, to a large extent, detrimental; at least that is our vision. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u201	I believe that these consequences will be very positive. I think that's pretty basic logic that gives us that, too. If you can make your own rules without being bound by the needs and interests of all kinds of countries with which you have very little in common, both in terms of migration policy, international relations, internal market rules, because there are a lot of economic differences, and so on, as a country, you can make much better policies. This applies to the United Kingdom, but also to the Netherlands. I think it's quite obvious. If I can make my own decisions about my life and not collectively make exactly the same decisions in all areas as all other people, then I can better organise my life as it is appropriate and pleasant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u202	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u203	Yes, Mr President, but what strikes me is that he does not answer my question about those consequences. I have the image that he says it's okay, that he's sure it's okay without further supporting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u204	I find it absurd to say now, as a result of some changes in course: look how bad it is. The economy is not a predictive science. It's speculative mass psychology: the values, the shares and so on. I didn't doubt before the Brexit that it's going to cause some unrest. Of course, things are changing. All kinds of companies on that side of the Channel, on the other side of the North Sea, are going to threaten, but our prime minister, as we have seen, is also being pressured by Unilever and Shell who say, 'We're going to leave if you don't change things'. Everyone will, of course, now see where their interests lie and how they can make the most of them. That seems quite obvious to me, but a meaningful assessment of whether the Brexit is positive or negative cannot be made in a period of six or nine months. For that, you have to look at five or ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u205	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u206	Sorry, just for a second. If we look purely at the question: what is the EU? The EU is a screw machine to build a united states of Europe. That puts you against being a sovereign country. Then it is quite clear that the United Kingdom is much more positive from that point of view. Our own migration policy, our own economic policy, our own foreign policy. Much more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u207	Clear. Mr Verhoeven. A short question and a short answer. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u208	Yeah, I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u209	I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mr Baudet is going to try, so it is probably not going to work. Mr Baudet sketches a kind of perspective that will eventually work out with the UK. I think he should say when he expects his prophecy to come true. It's very cheap and also very dangerous to make a prediction that you don't say when it's gonna come true. That is the cheap policy that Mr Baudet is now pursuing. He says that someday the United Kingdom will be okay. I want to know from Mr Baudet when he says that when the United Kingdom will be better. When does that promise come true that he makes all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u211	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u212	Short response, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u213	Three things. Firstly, the suggestion is raised that things are going extremely badly in the UK. That's not true at all. It's really not that bad. The trains are still running, the people just have a job. It's not that things are extremely bad. Secondly, I have already mentioned a deadline: a year or five or seven, then it makes sense to evaluate. Thirdly, it is not, that was another suggestion, that staying in the EU is riskless because then we know what we have. On the contrary, the European Union will force us to transfer money from north to south, much more immigration and open borders, and much more obstacles to our economic life because we are stuck with the only continent in the world where little economic growth is to be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u214	So Mr Baudet says that after a year or five, things will be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u215	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That suggests that things are bad right now. I think the Brexit evaluation will make sense in about five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u216	Mr. Chairman. Could Mr Baudet shut up for a moment, because I am asking a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u217	If it goes on like this, we have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u218	Well, then I'm gonna have to be paraphrased.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u219	You talk through everything and you paraphrase yourself for a long time and you yell. Let me ask you a question and try to answer it as concretely as possible, otherwise you will have turned around and it looks very much like that with all those long perky answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u220	And now the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u221	I would like to know from you, Mr President, when the prediction comes out, I will tell Mr Baudet, when it will be better in the UK. In your answer, "after five years" was the closest. If so, I ask Mr Baudet, what should happen in the meantime? Mr Baudet takes responsibility for the five-year period. In the meantime, should other politicians like all of us here, who are the present of today's citizens in the United Kingdom... should we all solve this mess? 'Cause that's what it's all about, of course. The predictions about what it will be like in five years' time will be of no use to the citizens of the Netherlands. When are you gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u222	The question is, of course, fun. In the classic rhetorica a double question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u223	I turn off both microphones, because this has to be a bit orderly. I give you the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u224	A suspect comes to the police. The police ask "when did you stop hitting your wife?" That question is of the same order as the question that is being asked here today. That question is unanswered because it involves the implication that you would hit your wife, or the implication that things would be bad with the United Kingdom now. "Why did you commit the murder? I didn't commit him at all." The question is: when will the United Kingdom be better? No, the United Kingdom is not very bad at all. I think it makes sense to evaluate Brexit and all its aspects in five years' time, the economy, migration policy, foreign policy and so on. So that's about five years after the start of the Brexit. Then it makes sense to see what has become of all the promises that Rutte is going to make about the European Council: there will be no superministry of finance and so on. That kind of term makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u225	Your final remark, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u226	I can't say much other than the following two things. 1. Mr Baudet pretends that things are going well in the United Kingdom and ignores all the malaise that many people are experiencing there at the moment. That's cheap as hell. 2. He says things will be better in the distant future. I am very sorry, but I can only sum it up as: reckless, irresponsible, nonsensical politics. He started with a kind of argument in which he pretended to be the one who understood it all, but it shows that Mr Baudet did not understand it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u227	I do not agree with Mr Verhoeven's observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u228	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. This is the first time that the organisation of work takes place. Then we will continue with this debate.
