ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. A thunderstorm in the clear sky. More than 600 people were told on Friday that they are going to lose their jobs. Some of them are sitting here in the stands today. Friday the big blow and now again in action, for yourself, for your colleagues, for your region, for your city. I have great respect for that. Siemens' profitable location in Hengelo may be closed down. The people in Twente are angry, and rightly so, especially when you consider that the highest boss has just over 600 families in uncertainty via a video connection. And that while the company runs excellently. There is profit, there are many orders and employees are loyal and productive. If Siemens closes, more than 600 jobs will disappear there, but also 1,800 jobs by suppliers. And that's a sledgehammer for the region. A region for which a company such as Siemens is of great economic importance, now and in the future. A region and a province that have just invested millions to facilitate companies like Siemens to maintain employment, as the Empire has done. The SP and other parties in the room, and certainly the employees of Siemens, want to know from this minister: how are you going to help employees, trade unions and local political parties to maintain the employment of this Siemens establishment in Hengelo? What are you going to do to keep this company open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. We fell raw on the roof last week. Mr Hijink is right to say that the economy is going well, the establishment is going well, the employees have turned this into an extremely good company over the last 20 years, since Siemens was acquired. Siemens is also important for the manufacturing industry. It must also have been a shock to the employees. They are generally skilled, but the uncertainty is equally oppressive for everyone. That sounds like an expression to me. I share the call for urgency and action, first of all from the staff and second from Mr Hijink. That does not mean that we intervene in individual business decisions, but sitting still is not the issue in such cases either. Of course, it begins with me writing a letter to the German Chief Executive asking for explanations on the decision to close an exceptionally successful factory. But Mr Hijink's question goes on. Literally, he asks for the how and the what: how are you going to take care of it and what are you going to do? Sitting still is not the issue, but this kind of planned decision, which we have had more of in recent history, does not go unnoticed to the Ministry of EZ, now EZK, and the Ministry of SZW. My problem is that I cannot go into details about individual cases. We know that there are very warm and very frequent contacts of the department and of me with the Dutch and international industry, that we keep in close contact, especially in such cases, with local government, and that we are considering all options to keep people at work initially or to get back to work in the extreme. In recent history, too, there are great examples of this. Unfortunately, however, I cannot say much about this, because when these matters are discussed here, they are no longer so effective. I think we should also recognise that there are formal roles to be played, among other things by the people in the gallery. A planned decision is not yet a running race. The Netherlands is a civilised country and Siemens is an extremely responsible employer. These formal steps must also be taken carefully, by the trade union movement, employees in an organized context, with the employer. This step must also be taken. Again, sitting still is not the issue for the government. Unfortunately, these kinds of things do not lend themselves very well to public disclosure. But I share Mr Hijink's call for urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	Let me start by saying that this sounds slightly different from what the Minister said last Friday. Now he says: sitting still is not the issue. Last Friday he said: this is ultimately a business decision of Siemens. He didn't want to get involved. That's crazy, isn't it? You want to get involved in companies all the time. In fact, four multinationals only have to blink their eyes here and you jump through the hoop to give them 1.4 billion. So why couldn't we talk to companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	It is really not intended to show approval or rejection of what is happening in the Chamber. I understand the emotion, but I don't mean to. Proceed, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	It didn't bother me at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	No, I didn't think so. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	I am very pleased that this minister has been inspired by his party colleague, the mayor of Hengelo. He wants to do the utmost to keep this company for Twente and Hengelo. But I think I asked a very simple and clear question: what is he going to do? What's the Minister gonna do now? In my opinion, it is not so secret to tell whether or not you are getting into the car to Germany to do everything in your power to put pressure on both the German Government and the management of Siemens and to make it clear that our government, both the Twente and the government, has put a lot of money into this company and that that means that as a company you can be loyal to employees who have worked for Siemens for many years. I'd like to hear what the minister's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have already said that we are indeed in contact with the German Chief Executive. I have also said that in such cases the cabinet does not sit still and interferes with united forces, with other governments. It is still an individual policy decision, and I am not taking back any of that. But sitting still is not the issue here, as has been shown in previous cases. Unfortunately, I cannot say much about this, because then it becomes less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	This is disappointing, Mr. Chairman. I don't need to hear that the minister might do something. I want to hear from him if he gets in the car. He'll take the plane if he has to. I don't care. But make sure these people know what they're up to; that's why they've come here. The Minister's answer makes it clear how power in our country is actually divided. Look at what's happening at Unox now, where they have to fight, where they have to fight, where they have to strike to be heard. The government, and this minister too, sometimes seems to forget what these companies owe the profits to: to all those people who have worked so hard for years to make them big and strong. Perhaps they have also forgotten that these companies have benefited from government support for years. In Hengelo there is work to this day around Siemens's companies to put the infrastructure in order. May this perhaps be the case with reciprocity and loyalty? That seems pretty obvious to me. The city of Hengelo, the mayor first, dares to fight. I want to know from this minister if he's going to support him. So for the last time, and then I'm gonna stop saying, how are you gonna keep the work in Hengelo? When can we see you in Germany to contact Siemens and the German Government for the withdrawal of this Siemens decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Hijink knows the answer. If I put the whole action plan on the table now, it won't work anymore. In the past, my department has shown several times that it can be helpful in many ways in maintaining employment or recreating employment. That is the answer that Mr Hijink unfortunately has to deal with. But I share his appeal, his indignation and his struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Moorlag, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	This morning's reports in the newspapers made it perfectly clear how this government got out of its way to bring the European Medicines Agency to the Netherlands. It's been months of hard fighting to get it done. And then last Friday the Minister's reaction, which excelled in cold passivity: this is a business decision, and this is what we need to rest in. I have only one question for the Minister: do you care about the fate of those 600 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	I keep saying that it is a business decision, but there is definitely a role to play here. "rest" is a word I don't use quickly. This is where it fits in to do what needs to be done. The only point on which I must disappoint Mr Hijink is that he wants the action plan on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	If you ask another question, Mr Moorlag, that's your second supplementary question. Then the group will no longer be able to participate. If that's okay, that's okay, but I don't want you to get into a fight with Mrs. Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	I'll wait for the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	That's good. Mr Paternotte, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	I remember the Minister as an alderman from Amsterdam, so I'm sure he cares about the 600 jobs. I'm sure he can do things. That's why I have one more question for him. It is, of course, a very strange decision by Siemens. We are talking about a profitable company in the place where Stork started 150 years ago and Siemens took over 20 years ago, with 600 high-tech jobs. The Minister said he was going to ask for explanations. And whether the minister drives 200 km/h to Germany or writes a letter, my question is whether he not only wants to ask Joe Kaeser for explanations, but also wants to ask him if he sees that the municipality of Hengelo has put tens of millions into the infrastructure and that the government has regularly helped Siemens to function properly in that place. Will he also remind him of his moral duty and ask him to give Hengelo another chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	That's the bet. Let's put it this way: the planned decision isn't a runaway race. I told you. Not only the cabinet but also the staff have a role to play in this. They're certainly not gonna let that opportunity pass. Indeed, from two lifetimes ago, but also from one lifetime ago, Mr Paternotte knows that jobs are of particular interest to me. Everyone at work; that is one of the important goals. Only the precise action plan must be left to me by Mr Paternotte. With how many kilometers per hour we drive to exactly where and when I won't discuss right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Van der Lee, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	In the few weeks it's been there, this cabinet has built the reputation of being the cabinet for the headquarters. There is far too little evidence of real economic activity. This is a high-quality company with highly involved staff. Millions of dollars have been invested recently. You are talking about an action plan, on which you cannot say anything in substance, but can you comment on the strategic value of this production facility in the Netherlands? We are in a huge energy transition, where new turbines and other compressors are needed, also for the future, for example in the hydrogen economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	I am not going to explain exactly what the significance of this type of compressors used in gas transport or for other industries is. Then I'm way beyond my direct knowledge of this area. We all know that a huge amount of investment in energy systems in all kinds of forms will have to be made in the coming years. Hydrogen can play a role in this, but also all kinds of other storage media. Let us not put the strategic market analysis of this company on the table. Let us focus everything on it, each in its own role, to ensure that employment is not lost and, should this happen, to ensure that these people get back to work as quickly as possible. The Netherlands needs these people. Let me say something about the strategic importance of craftsmen for the Netherlands. We're short of that. It should always mean that these people stay at work or come back to work in a high quality way. That is the meaning for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Amhaouch, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u26	The new minister of EZ just indicated that the department had already had to deal with several cases similar to those in the past. Philips Emmen was saved by silent diplomacy. Nedcar in Sittard-Geleen has also been saved by silent diplomacy from EZ. We ask the Minister to continue to use silent diplomacy to Siemens AG, the head office, but also to the German fellow ministers. I know that this will not be successful if we talk about this every day before the stage, but I do want the commitment that there is maximum effort and quiet diplomacy to Siemens AG and to the German Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u27	The word "silent diplomacy"; perhaps I should have used it from the beginning. Thank you for that, because that is exactly what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u28	The Twente region is one of the most innovative regions when it comes to manufacturing. We would much rather have that kind of real economy, because that's where our country floats, rather than another bank or something. I understand that quiet diplomacy, but there is also a lot of non-silent diplomacy to do. I know from the example of Philips Emmen that a task force with heavyweights has been set up very visibly to ensure that all options are put on the table and that as much thought is given to them as possible. Is a task force also in the scenario that the Minister wants to propose here in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u29	Every case is different. In one case, this instrument works, in the other it works. In one case, we have one outcome and the other. But silent diplomacy means that we now think and act appropriately about it when it is necessary and in the way it is needed. Let me take a look at the various instruments. The question has often been asked: what exactly are you going to do? Let us not do that here in this Chamber. I really like the quiet diplomacy call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mr Moorlag, second supplementary question on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u31	Last Friday, the Minister took the skating to our tastes a little too early out of the fat. He must now re-launch and prove that he is going to make a real effort for this company and for maintaining employment. The Minister states that silent diplomacy also takes place in silence. Is he prepared to report to the Chamber in a transparent manner what efforts he has made at the time the journey has been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u32	Hmmmm. Let me put it this way: if all my interlocutors knew by now that what they were discussing with me was going to be in the Chamber, I do not know whether it would be better. Let me just say that at some point... I'm going to... tell the Chamber what I can say. If I mortgage this quiet diplomacy in advance, it won't work again. I understand Mr Moorlag's wish, which, by the way, thinks that I would have come to a different view on the weekend. No, there's a government role here, only it remains individual business decisions. Doing nothing is not an option. That's the line. I will give some thought to how I can satisfy Mr Moorlag's hunger for the facts after this journey, but I am not going to mortgage the route in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u33	No, but the question was whether the Chamber could be informed afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u34	Let me put it this way: if things are discussed that my interlocutors do not want me to make them public, then I will take that freedom because otherwise this will not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u35	It is important, if possible, to maintain these jobs. My question refers to Mr Moorlag's question. The Minister's tendency will of course be to inform as late as possible. I understand that in itself, because then you're sure you can't do any damage to the trial. The wish of the Chamber will be to be informed as soon as possible. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he thinks he's dealing with this tension field. That seems kind of tricky to me. On the one hand, the desire for quiet diplomacy. On the other hand, if only for a moment, inform the Chamber of what the Minister has done and what the possible outcome is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u36	I suspect, with all due respect, that this is a sham contradiction. I think that the most important question here is not to inform as late as possible or to inform as early as possible; results are paramount. First, the jobs, they're first. That's what drives me. We do information at an appropriate time, but this should not affect the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u37	Madam President. When I hear and hear the Minister now what he said on Friday, I don't think they're in Siemens' executive room shaking in their seats, while there are a lot of people sitting here who are just shocked. There is investment in their company; those people have been working their asses off and one day: with one stroke of pins through it! And there's a minister here who says "a little quiet this, a little quiet that." The point is, we're gonna fight here. If something like this happens in France or Germany, then the world is too small. Then ministers will be at the front of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u38	And now the question, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u39	I only have one question, and the Minister should not answer to me, but to all those people sitting here. What do you have to say to all these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr President, what I do is what fits in my role. I am doing the best I can to ensure that jobs are maintained or replaced here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u41	Mr. Roemer, you stand with your back to the chairman. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u42	I'm standing face to face with the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u43	I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u44	I do not really believe that there is much light between Mr Roemer and me. In other cases, maybe, but I think this isn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you. A follow-up question on behalf of the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u46	I'm just making a follow-up question, because these people behind me can't do anything with this. They want to see a driven politician fighting for them here, and they want to see him radiate that too. They don't want to hear about "little quiet this and a little bit that" or "yes, I'm just gonna rest in it, but I'd rather not" and "I'm gonna talk." This isn't the fight you need to keep a company like that in. If you know that all those people have fought for it and that the local government has fought for it and if you hear what you are doing for those other companies, Mr Hijink has already mentioned the 1.4 billion for the multinationals, I would expect more passion from this minister towards those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u48	So I'd like to give him one more chance to show his passion so that all those people know: yes, here is a minister who really stands up for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr Roemer doesn't know what I'm doing at all. So he doesn't know if that's successful either. He doesn't know what I'm doing. I can't talk about that right now. So how can he judge whether or not that is successful? His purpose is my purpose. Let's see where it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
