ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome everyone in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Constitution is an important document in our state system. Main fundamental rights are set out in Chapter 1 of the Constitution. Fundamental rights guarantee citizens' freedoms. Fundamental rights create a framework between public relations and citizens. The Constitution is actually the basis of our state system, but sometimes it also needs to be adapted to the demands of time. The procedure for amending the Constitution is difficult. That's not without reason. There must be broad support for putting, amending or removing a provision in the Constitution. The wording must also be legally crystallised. There must even be constitutional maturity. The wording must also be sober. The government always says that the Constitution must be a sober document. The Constitution must be sober. Moreover, a provision must be sufficiently concrete to add something substantial. On the basis of these criteria, the CDA has further assessed this government's proposal. Because today we are discussing whether a provision should be added to the Constitution on the fair trial, on its right to do so. Now Article 17 of the Constitution merely states that no one can be held against his will from the judge who grants him the law. As early as 2010, the Constitutional Commission recommended the inclusion of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The right to a fair trial is extremely important. The CDA also thinks that this is a very important fundamental right, because you have the right to an independent judge who protects you from other people. It is important for the government to give room for access to that independent judge. It is actually one of the foundations of the rule of law, of society as we have made it here. However, this right to a fair trial has already been enshrined in international treaties. So if we are to change the Constitution, it must be a complement to that. According to the State Committee, a provision on the right to a fair trial also provides additional legal protection if the wording is broader than Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The First Chamber took over this recommendation from the State Committee in 2012 in the widely accepted motion of Ms Lokin-Sassen of the CDA. Before I go into a number of specific questions about how the Minister has incorporated this proposal into the Constitution, I would like to ask a number of questions about the wording that has now been chosen. That has been discussed extensively. The State Committee gave two suggestions for the formulation of the right to a fair trial. The first suggestion was based on Article 47 of the EU Charter with some adjustments. The EU Charter speaks of "rights and freedoms" while the State Commission chose the more general term "interests." The average spectator will think: does it matter whether it is the words "interests" or "rights and freedoms"? In law and also in legal terms, this often matters, because it means different things. The EU Charter speaks of "violent rights and freedoms" while the State Commission chose the word "affected." The State Commission argued, among other reasons, that this is a relevant adjustment, in particular for legal protection against the government. The text proposed was that anyone whose interests are protected by law should have the right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge. Can the Minister explain once again why the government did not, in the end, opt for the careful wording of the State Commission and, on a number of points, put forward a different wording? I also have a specific question to ask the Minister whether he would like to zoom in on the state committee's plea that precisely the wording 'affected interests' is important. It is important for legal protection against public authorities. Does the fact that the Minister has opted for a different wording therefore mean that people can derive the same right from it even if there is no mention of "affected interests"? The government follows the text proposed by a minority of the State Commission, which is in line with Article 6 of the ECHR. Unlike the ECHR, the proposed constitutional article does not include civil rights and obligations. Speaking of rights and obligations in the Constitution makes the scope better than the international provision. The CDA considers it important that these are not only civil and criminal differences, but that this applies to all situations in which a person is affected by any action in his or her rights protected interests. The Minister also discusses this in the papers. Can he confirm once again that the wording chosen has that scope? The proposed provision on the fair trial does not have a restriction clause. However, the Committee warns that a comprehensive provision can be interpreted in such a way that it opens the door to costly proceedings on trivialities, so in fact about small things that you should not go to court for, and that it costs a lot of time and money if you do when it can be solved in another way. Can the Minister explain how measures against abuse of procedures relate to the proposed fundamental right? I have a number of questions about the practical implementation of the provisions. The first relates to the fair trial. The core is that there must be a fair trial by an impartial and independent judge. In this context, we also see that part of the settlement of criminal disputes is done by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, the D.A.'s not a judge. That is why I ask the Minister whether the prosecution's decision meets the criterion of "fair trial." Then specifically: to what extent does the prosecutor meet the requirement of independence and impartiality? Then I come to the issue of legal status. The proposed right to a fair trial relates to different jurisdictions. I have just said that this is the difference with the international provision of Article 6 of the ECHR. The legal status of the citizen is also different within these different jurisdictions. In criminal law, citizens generally have a stronger legal status, more rights, than in administrative law. Will the Minister address the implications for the implementation of a "fair process" within the Constitution? Does this make a difference? In the consultation, the Dutch Association for Justice asked for attention to be paid to the position of minors and undercurated persons. They usually have no independent right of access to justice and are also dependent on the person under whose authority they are, for example, a guardian for their access to justice. Will the Minister address the position of minors and undercurate people in this regard? Another question from the CDA concerns the dispute committees in the Netherlands. In various areas, for example in healthcare, we have dispute committees. Similarly, a Disputes Committee has been created under the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. The rulings of those arbitration committees shall be legally binding. Those disputes may be about the fact that you've been mistreated in a hospital, that you've been harmed, but they can also be about issues that really require legal questions. What does the proposed Article 17 of the Constitution mean for the position of Dispute Committees, for example the Dispute Committees based on the Quality Act, Complaints and Disputes Care? Does the standard of a fair trial also apply to the dispute committees which also deal with the definition of rights and obligations? I would like to add two more laws which we discussed extensively in the Chamber some time ago. It is then about the bill Care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients and the bill Compulsory mental health care. These legislative proposals are currently ahead of the Upper House. When dealing with the health and compulsion laws, psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients discussed how legal protection should be regulated, precisely because these clients are often less expressive. Perhaps it is good to point out that both laws come from the earlier BOPZ Act, which the chairman also knows. The Law mandatory mental health care for psychiatric patients provides psychiatric patients who are forced to receive care, a different and more legal protection in the courts than the Health and Force Act provides psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients to demented and mentally disabled. According to the law on mandatory ggz, you can ask a judge to do justice much sooner and more often, while you can go to court in accordance with the law on care and coercion but in a specific case. In the Chamber we talked about whether this actually fell within the fair process of Article 6 of the ECHR. That is, of course, specifically about civil and criminal rights. Now we are laying it down in our Constitution. Should the legislator make a different assessment by laying down this article in the Constitution? Can the Minister comment on the meaning of the proposed Constitutional provision for the Care and Force Act in relation to the Legal Protection of the Mental Health Act? I'm closing up. The CDA considers the inclusion of the fair process to be an important addition to the Constitution. However, there are still questions about the scope of the provision. Can we be assured once again that the scope is indeed wide? Given the role that we as legislators have to review against the Constitution, I ask to what extent the inclusion of this provision in the Constitution may lead to a different consideration in these specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. "Someone must have slandered Josef K., for without doing anything evil, he was arrested one morning.", this is the opening sentence of Kafka's The Process. It doesn't get any better down the road in that novel. Little or nothing about the process becomes clear to him and the oppressive, absurdistic atmosphere remains. Fortunately, what we mean by a legal process in the Netherlands is the opposite. Only, our Constitution didn't guarantee that yet. Article 17 merely states that no one can be held against his will from the judge who grants him the law. The classic right to freedom. But nowhere in the Constitution did it say that people are entitled to an open and fair trial that takes place within a reasonable time and for an independent and impartial judge. This is a legal process which must also provide an effective remedy. It is good that there is now a intention to record this, but it also raises a few questions. What took you so long? As early as 2010, the Constitutional Commission proposed the text contained in the legislative proposal. The motion of the Supreme Court to include that proposed text in a constitutional amendment dates back to 2012. Earlier we saw that the modernisation of letter and telegraph secrecy was postponed until it was clear how the secret services wanted to tap telecommunications. That called and evokes the appearance that tried to bring the Constitution into line with the law rather than the other way around. I would like it if the Minister could really take away that appearance, because it should not linger, especially in view of the discussion that has taken place over the last few weeks. Why first try to limit legal aid and increase registry fees and then propose the right to a fair trial? I would also like to see that appearance taken away. There are also proposals to make mediation a mandatory pre-trial stage, but do we not restrict access to justice? Wouldn't such a proposal relate badly to the new Constitution? I would also like to be clear about this. A fair trial is also an open trial. Article 121 of the Constitution now provides that hearings are to be held publicly, but that article does not refer to administrative appeals, as the government indicated in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal. Can the Minister, therefore, clarify why this opportunity has not yet been used to establish constitutionally this public access to administrative appeals? Nor is it included in the legislative proposal that a course of justice should be effective. However, there are some doubts about the extent to which administrative justice contributes to the rapid and efficient resolution of conflicts. It is not uncommon for the judge to reject the grounds for a decision and to take a new decision against which all the actions for opposition, appeal and appeal must be re-examined. Shouldn't we apply administrative links much more often or allow the judge, where possible, to end the conflict himself by a ruling that takes place instead of a decision? Would it not have been reasonable to include this effectiveness explicitly in this legislative proposal? How does the Minister and his colleague from Security and Justice intend to increase effectiveness in this administrative law? Looking at administrative law and fair trials, we see that administrative fines are increasingly common to replace criminal proceedings. The UNG recently called for an increase in the number of administrative fines. For a fair and open process, it is important to give the right guarantees to those who are fined. In this context, does the Minister expect to respond himself to the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State on legal guarantees and legal protection when imposing administrative fines, or does he leave it to a new cabinet? Finally, I cannot help it, constitutional review; I keep coming back to it, because some things need to be promoted. Because, like the general provision we discussed a few weeks ago on the modernisation of letter secrecy, without judicial review of the law, the protection offered by our Constitution is limited. It is protection in abstracto but not in concrete cases. If we want to make the Constitution more relevant to everyone in this country, should we not just include rights but also make them subject to scrutiny in individual cases, make them enforceable? What else is the value of the Constitution? This brings me to the end of my speech. Unfortunately, I have to leave this debate now because of commitments elsewhere, but I will ensure that everything that is said here comes to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. For the right to a fair trial, we are not dependent on a European treaty. If there is a dispute or a criminal case, everyone wants a fair trial for a judge who is independent and impartial. In the Netherlands there is always access to the judge who is independent and impartial. The right to a fair trial has long been our practice. However, the Constitution does not at present contain any provision guaranteeing that right in so many words, regardless of any point of reference. However, Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and certain other conventions contain it. The law is also widely recognised in case law. The VVD stands for the primacy of our Dutch Constitution, our Parliament and our Dutch judge. It fits in with our national liberal tradition to guarantee the right to a fair trial in the Netherlands in a Dutch way. That is why we are in favour of including the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. My amendment to a general provision in the Constitution currently pending in another debate is: the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. In this context, it is also desirable for the Constitution to guarantee the fundamental right of a fair trial. The current government proposal is word for word the first sentence of Article 6 of the ECHR, except that the word "civil" for the word "rights" has been omitted. This means, in short, that the proposal also envisages administrative law. As the government and the state committee state, the legal system and case law already guarantee the fair trial in this area. This proposal therefore does not change anything. Before agreeing to the government's proposal, I would ask the Minister to confirm explicitly that the text before us is not intended to change or change anything to the legal practice currently in force in the Netherlands. That is why I would like to raise three points. Firstly, does the Minister agree with the VVD's view that there is already a right to a fair trial in the Netherlands in all areas referred to in this bill? Secondly, does the Minister agree with the VVD's view that there is already a fair trial in all areas in the Netherlands at present? Thirdly, does the Minister agree with the VVD's interpretation that this proposal does not lead to any material change? On that basis, the VVD is in favour of explicitly including in the Constitution the right to a fair trial, because for the right to a fair trial, we in the Netherlands are not dependent on a European treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. Whoever is a bit at home in the Bible, undoubtedly knows the laws of Moses. He was one of the great legislators. He is also depicted on the artwork in the hall of the House of Representatives. These laws contain different principles that were time- and place-bound, but also principles that continue to work in Dutch law and procedural law to this day. A few examples make this clear. Those rules require, inter alia, that the court is obliged to give a fair judgment. In a court of law, it is not up to him to see if anyone is rich or poor; he must judge without regard to the person. A second important point is that the judge must ensure that there is careful evidence. One witness in a particular case is insufficient to come to judgment. It takes at least two or three witnesses to pass the verdict "guilty." When judging, the will of the majority or the masses must not be leading. The judge has to rely on the facts. A third example is about, yes, integrity. Bribery is a felony according to those rules. If you allow this kind of regulation to be applied to you, I could give you the source, but I will not do so, you have to admit that in those old rules of law, which are over 3,000 years old, a lot of wisdom is contained. In fact, we see all the characteristics of what we are discussing now as the right to a fair trial and the guarantees to guarantee it. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to amend the Constitution in order to establish the right to a fair trial. The reason for this is the report of the State Constitution Committee from 2010 and then the request of the First Chamber via the motion-Lokin-Sassen et al. (31570, C) to submit a legislative proposal for this purpose. I am pleased to be able to replace Mr Van der Staaij here, who is working elsewhere in this house because of double planning. I would like to address three points on behalf of the SGP. The first is whether it is necessary to establish this right to a fair trial. The government considered in 2011 that it was not necessary to explicitly codify this right in the Constitution. It was not necessary, partly because it was already guaranteed in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). After pressing and a motion from the First Chamber, the government stated in a further reaction that two principles are leading. Firstly, there must be sufficient constitutional maturity of the items to be anchored and, secondly, there must be an urgent need for such anchoring. As far as we are concerned, these are real principles. I believe that we can quickly agree that there is certainly a certain constitutional maturity in this matter. In itself, there is not much discussion about this. The question that remains is whether this bill is really urgently needed. In practice, we see that the principle of the fair trial is maintained in the Netherlands. Some aspects of this are already laid down in the Constitution. Moreover, the ECHR already guarantees this right in Article 6 of that Convention. You could say that this bill, together with the existing Articles 17 and 121, is virtually a copy of this European fundamental right. In practice, therefore, concrete effects cannot be expected. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the conclusion is that there is in fact no real urgent need to include this right in the Constitution. However, I would add immediately that this does not mean that it would therefore be undesirable. With the right to a fair trial, we are talking about an extremely important constitutional principle. It is one of the supporting structures of the democratic rule of law, which the Netherlands still is. It can certainly be a good thing to state explicitly in the Constitution that this principle applies in the Netherlands. What we all know is therefore enshrined in our basic constitutional document. Therefore, despite the limited practical impact that can be expected, the SGP can support this proposal. The second point concerns the completeness of this legal provision. I would like to make two points in this connection. This is the first point made by the Council of State's opinion on the specific rights under the second and third paragraphs of Article 6 of the ECHR. We would like the Government to assure us that the general provision of this bill is intended to include these rights in full. Does this mean that, through the national constitution too, anyone can avail themselves of these rights? I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister. Secondly, I would like to zoom in on the restriction system. It's a bit of a legal story, but I think it's okay to name it. This bill does not specify in which cases an exception can be made to the right to a fair trial. It is precisely the lack of specific grounds for derogation that raises the question of whether this right can be too easily undermined. Can the Minister indicate whether it is indeed possible to derogate only in the form of procedural rules? I expect an affirmative answer to that, but that is also a not insignificant confirmation for the history of law. The third and final point is why this right should be laid down. Finally, it remains striking that arguments are put forward to include the right to a fair trial, but that they would not apply to the inclusion of the right to life. We have been somewhat surprised by that. According to the State Committee I have already referred to, the right to life is one of the most important human rights. This means that part of the committee wants to incorporate this right immediately into the Constitution and another part wants to include it after the introduction of the general provision. It is striking that the arguments used are actually the same as in the case of the right to a fair trial. This concerns whether it is necessary or not in the light of the European Treaty, whether it adds something to the legal protection of citizens and whether it contributes to strengthening the legislative force of the Constitution. But the answer to the question of whether the right to life should be included falls exactly to the other side. I think it is striking that you can also call it "strange" that this principle is being chosen, but not for the definition of the much more fundamental principle of the right to life. I would like to hear from the Minister why the choice has fallen the other way. Will the Minister explain why he did not come forward with this proposal but with a proposal on the right to a fair trial? What steps can we expect the Minister to take to establish this fundamental right in the Constitution? I have sometimes understood that a missionary period is a period of contemplation and reflection and that there is time to think about these things. It would be extremely nice if this outgoing minister could come forward with a proposal to include this right in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. I will be right behind the door: this bill can count on the support of GroenLinks. The Human Rights College makes a striking statement: an impartial and independent judge, a judgment within a reasonable time and a public and fair handling of his or her case are the basic elements of a democratic rule of law. That's what we stand for. The right to this is important enough to be included in the Dutch Constitution, but there is also a "but". It is a bit harsh that the cabinet that sent this important bill to the Chamber has exhausted itself in recent years in arguments to prevent lawyers from attending the police hearing in criminal matters. I also believe that the intention to increase registry fees and reduce social lawyer fees is at odds with access to the law. How does the Minister look back on the cabinet policy of recent years? Let us also look ahead: what practical and fundamental consequences will be the fundamental right to a fair trial? From the note on the report, I would point out that the Minister does not want to venture a prediction. I would ask the Minister to identify the possible consequences of this important legislative proposal. A fair trial presupposes, as a classical fundamental right, restraint towards the judiciary. How does this relate to the general and special competence of the Minister of Security and Justice to give instructions to the Public Prosecutor in cases where criminal offences do not end up in court? I am thinking of dismissals and an approach as quickly as possible. At the same time, the fundamental right to a fair trial is also a fundamental social right requiring the public authorities to take active action to facilitate access to justice and justice. The legal status of victims in criminal matters is a good example of this. In recent years, at least on paper, this position has improved considerably. There is still much to improve in practice. I would like the Minister to give me an analysis of how victims will experience the added value of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The same applies to the administrative position of stakeholders. To what extent is the very strict principle of marginal judicial review still sustainable? A fair trial also requires a fair statement of substance. Finally. The Justice Council rightly recalls that fundamental rights will gain in importance if the judicial review ban of Article 120 is also deleted. During the previous period, the plenary debate on the second reading of the Constitutional Review Act began. Achieving the required two-thirds majority will certainly be a lot easier if the cabinet through the Minister's line of the Council of Justice, the Council of State, the Supreme Court and those who do not already agree to make the Dutch Constitution a living law by allowing constitutional review. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. This proposal incorporates the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. Wasn't this in there yet? No! And wasn't that a little weird? Yeah, actually, I do. At the moment, it is only a negative statement: no one can be held against his will from the judge who grants him the law. It is now added that everyone has the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time for an independent and impartial judge. This proposed provision makes access to justice more complete, because the right to a fair trial was not yet sufficiently covered by the Constitution. The SP also really believes that we should be able to read the right to a fair trial not only in international treaties, such as the ECHR, but also in our own Constitution. We believe that this is not only because legal protection in the international conventions does not cover the entire load legally. Not all the procedures were covered by them, as explained by the Minister in the documents. So the new article doesn't just codify, it really adds something. However, we believe that this is particularly important because the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time is so fundamental for an independent and impartial judge. It is fundamental in our democratic rule of law. We know in the Netherlands the principle that public trading must be based on the law. We are also aware of the separation of powers and the protection of fundamental rights. Ensuring the right to a fair trial has everything to do with these core elements of our rule of law, of course. Therefore, the SP supports the inclusion of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. In addition to writing the right to a fair trial in the Constitution, you will have to implement and guarantee it in practice in all possible ways. It is true that that is not yet the case, see the government's successive proposals and other developments. Colleagues from D66 and GroenLinks also pointed out. We have constantly seen attacks on access to justice over the past period, such as increases in registry fees and cuts in subsidised legal aid. This simply raises the question of whether access to justice is in good hands with, for example, a party such as the VVD. The former Secretary of State for Security and Justice of that party is now openly saying that he was cutting back on the criminal lawyer so that it would not become so much with the defence in criminal matters. In addition, we saw the plans to close courts and not adequately finance the judiciary for years. What about the accessibility and independence of the judiciary? In addition, there is the continuous expansion of the criminal order of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which the judge no longer has any use for it. Then what use is a constitutional article on a fair trial, as we are discussing it today. In addition, I agree with Mr Özütok's questions on this point, namely the prohibition of review under Article 120 of the Constitution. Criticism of this is easily dismissed in the written preparation. Surely the Minister cannot deny that the right to a fair trial in the Constitution would be strengthened if judges were allowed to review laws against that Constitution? It would then be possible to assess whether or not a law is contrary to these and other constitutional provisions. I'd like a response to that. Finally, I would like to point out that the case law is simply part of the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It doesn't really stand out from an implementation organisation. That's kind of crazy for the third state power, isn't it? That is why the SP has very recently presented an initiative legislative proposal, yesterday, to give justice its own budget. This promotes the independence of the judiciary and, in fact, we are actually strengthening this new constitutional article. I hope and count it will not be necessary today, but it will be necessary in the long term on the warm support of the Chamber for this. In short, it is a good thing that we have a clearer definition of access to justice and the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. So support from the SP, no misunderstandings, but paper is patient, even the Constitution. The practice is more rigid, so a new cabinet will also be able to count on the warm, but above all critical interest of the SP in terms of access to justice, the fair trial, the reasonable period of time and the independence and impartiality of the judge and the justice system in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you. The minister was already up, so he can answer right away. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for having found an opportunity for this debate in these turbulent times. I have been told that you are gradually becoming less outgoing, because life is still going on in the meantime. Today we are discussing a major amendment to the Constitution in plenary. That change includes one short sentence, so I'll read it to you as well. The proposal adds the sentence to Article 17 of the Constitution: "Every person shall have the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time before an independent and impartial judge in determining his rights and obligations or in determining the merits of proceedings brought against him.' That is the proposal now before us. One could say that Mr Van Nispen referred to this point: in fact, in the Constitution, it completes the pillars of the rule of law as we know it. These pillars are first and foremost the principle of legality: public authorities should not act against a citizen if there is no legal basis for that. The second pillar is the separation of powers. This legal basis is established by the legislative authority, but is implemented by an independent power, namely the judiciary. One could say that the third pillar of that rule of law is that there really is a right to a fair trial in that judiciary. The proposal now before us should add that right to the Constitution. I will go into the explicit questions on the part of the VVD, but the proposal is in fact a confirmation of the practice already arising from, to a large extent, the ECHR, Article 6, and for other parts of different laws. Does that mean that nothing actually changes? No, because it is now enshrined in the Constitution, and that has a certain educational value. Secondly, it can also serve as an example abroad. It also means, and this is, of course, a material effect, which, in future too, the legislator will be bound by what is then laid down in the Constitution when it comes to changing laws. Thus, although it does not materially change the practice of the current legal process, it prevents one from doing something in the future that the legislator would realize is contrary to the constitutionally established right to a fair trial. That is a consideration which one can expect the legislator and also advisory bodies such as the Council of State to point out, should there ever be any change in that ordinary legal practice in the future. I would just like to specify that the right to a fair trial is largely based on Articles 6 and 47 of the European Fundamental Rights Charter. What is regulated outside the ordinary law is now all subject to the right to a fair trial as laid down in the Constitution. In a general sense, this is something else. Our Constitution is and remains a sober Constitution. This means that, in general terms, we lay down such a thing in the Constitution, but that much of what that right to a fair trial entails, for example, the principle of hearing and hearing, the principle of supporting suspects in the course of justice, is enshrined in the concept of "fair trial" and is further developed in ordinary law. Mr Bishop was right to point out that it was the view of previous Cabinets that it was not necessary to include this in the Constitution, as it is already the result of ordinary laws. This is something that we have discussed again in the cabinet, inspired by the Chamber-wide view of the Upper Chamber. After careful consideration, we have decided that this need arises from the fact that these laws, which are in fact already there and which are being implemented in practice, are so fundamental that it is good to incorporate them in the Constitution. That is what the two classes of arguments I have just given apply to. On the one hand, there is the important symbolic effect and the role of the Constitution, on the other hand, it prevents the situation in the future that a majority vote by ordinary law seriously infringes the right to a fair trial, because that is constitutionally anchored from now on, if you accept it and if it is adopted at second reading. We believe that this is necessary for that reason. That is indeed a different view from that which existed before. In view of the time I wanted to confine myself to that brief introduction and to the questions that have been asked in my direction, in which some of these elements are further elaborated. Maybe in a general sense the following. That's what the CDA has been asking for. It has been considered at a preliminary stage whether or not that text on the right to a fair trial should be explicated. We have finally chosen to do so, namely in determining the rights and obligations or in determining the merits of a prosecution against him. There was different advice about that. In the end, it seemed useful for the government to express that. Even after the consultation of the Dutch Legal Committee on Human Rights, the Administrative Department of the Council of State and the Public Prosecutor, it was decided to do so, because on the one hand you ensure that it has the intended general effect and on the other hand it provides sufficient legal certainty and does not give the impression that disputes can be settled which do not need to be resolved in court. Let me give you an extreme example. If someone feels that everyone is always against him, sometimes people have that sometimes they offer that you do not yet have the right to a fair trial. There really must be a right or an obligation of criminal proceedings to obtain the right to a fair trial. That limitation has been explicated for that reason. A number of fundamental questions have been asked by Mrs Bruins Slot. She says she basically supports the proposal. She is asking a question that I have just answered. She asks who is entitled to a fair trial. In doing so, it addresses a number of discussions which are indeed further specified in the ordinary law. As I said in my introduction, the amendment of the Constitution is not intended to change that. This applies, for example, to the whole debate on whether the right to a fair trial also belongs to minors or undercurated people. The answer to that is yes, by the way. They may be dependent on the person exercising authority over them for the exercise of the right. It's an independent right, though. There are more questions about such points. They are answered by ordinary law. If there is a need for a further debate on this, I think it is up to V and J to discuss the details further. The adoption of this constitutional amendment will not change that practice. What about the legal protection of citizens when cases are dealt with through the so-successful way of working? Mrs Özütuk also asked for this. That is not relevant to legal protection. It's a D.A.'s working process. It shall be without prejudice to the rights of suspects. Every accused person is entitled to free consultation assistance from an attorney prior to the police questioning. In addition, since 1 March 2016, the defendant has also been entitled to free assistance from an attorney during the interview. This method of working as smoothly as possible has been set up to deal quickly and appropriately with cases falling under the heading of "Multiple Crime." It is the public prosecutor's policy that a criminal order imposed by the prosecution in the form of a fine can only be paid directly if a suspect is provided with legal aid. In all other cases, the defendant is sent a criminal order with or at home and has two weeks to consider and, if necessary, refer the case to the court. The defendant is therefore never confronted with an irrevocable decision without legal aid or without being able to refer the case to the court. Something similar applies to the Promotion Mediation Act. There is no obligation to intervene in that bill. It aims to promote the quality of the instrument mediation without restricting access to justice. It's open, even if no mediation has been tried. In parallel, I will give the answer to the question about the prosecution. The current policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office is that a criminal order imposed by him in the form of a fine can only be paid directly on the spot if the defendant is provided with legal aid, as I said. There is therefore always the possibility of the so-called'resistance', so that a criminal judgment can always be used. Does the prosecutor meet the requirements of independence and impartiality? That's a tricky question, because it suggests that it should. However, that does not have to be done. Article 17 of the Constitution requires the judge to be independent and impartial. As I have just said, access to justice always ultimately belongs to a suspect. Moreover, the public prosecutor operates independently in concrete court cases. The Minister of Justice does, however, have a general jurisdiction to adjudicate. The dispute committees deal with complaints. There was also a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. If there is a dispute over a right and a person is affected in his legal position, he can of course eventually go to the civil court. However, it is true that it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that access to justice may be restricted, for example that an appeal committee must first be referred to. Those restrictions must then result from the law, be proportionate and be reasonable. I believe that I have answered the questions of the CDA Group and then come to the questions of Mrs Van Engelshoven, who will be able to read my answers in the stenographic report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	Before you continue, Mrs. Bruins Slot has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given to various aspects. I have asked another question about the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and coercion, which are now in the Upper House. There has been a whole discussion with the Secretary of State of VWS on strengthening legal protection under the Health and Force Act. The interesting thing about the Minister's introduction was that he indicated that if this provision comes into force, so if we all decide that we are going to do so, this could have an impact on new legislation. How does the discussion in which the Chamber instructed the Secretary of State to consider how legal protection could be further strengthened by the fact that we are dealing with this bill laying down certain principles for a fair trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	Let me be very precise. Strictly speaking, of course, this amendment of the constitution has not yet been adopted. It has yet to reach a two-thirds majority in second reading before it appears in the Official Journal, so now that constitutional change does not apply in itself. I have already said that this constitutional change does not seek to make a material difference in the right to a fair trial. In doing so, the Chamber may assume that my colleague in the cabinet in this legislative proposal does not seek to undermine the right to a fair trial. Let's go with the thought. If it were already in the Constitution, this could mean that, when assessing a legislative proposal, the Chambers, both Chambers, would consider whether a legislative proposal would lead to conflict with the right to a fair trial. I think the Chambers will have to do the same. The follow-up question is whether that will be violated here. I want to stay out of that right now. This is discussed by the Secretary of State from trade union K when the bill is being examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	So the Minister actually states that the Secretary of State should have made a full assessment of this and that he would not have changed it at the time of the adoption of this bill? This is still to be done at second reading. The Minister is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	I would point out that in the wording'should have done' there is a suggestion that he would not have done so. I'm not taking over. I assume that's what the Secretary of State did. As far as I know, no proposals from the cabinet have gone to the Chamber to undermine the right to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	That is a legitimate statement by the Minister. The debate in the Chamber was indeed about whether or not there is sufficient legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mrs Van Engelshoven asked somewhat rhetorically what the value of defining the right to a fair trial is when there is no constitutional review, i.e. when no one is able to bring an action before the courts and rely directly on the Constitution. As you know, this is excluded by Article 120 of the Constitution. Mrs Ozütok also asked for this. I shall begin by saying that I firmly believe that our Constitution, as we know it, has been worth all these years and centuries without an independent constitutional test. I should also like to hope that this is the conviction of the whole Chamber. There is therefore also value if one cannot turn to a constitutional court and say: I want this decision or measure to be reversed. We can do that in the United States, for example. The value of the Constitution cannot therefore depend on it. The government is not in favour of deleting Article 120 from the Constitution. There has sometimes been an initiative legislative proposal that was adopted in the first reading by a majority in the Lower House and the Upper House. That was an initiative proposal by Mrs Halsema. We have also talked about this recently. I did point out at the time that the bill was not then dealt with by the new House of Representatives in accordance with Article 137 of the Constitution. I also pointed out at that time that while there is a reading by the Council of State that 'the new Chamber of Representatives' does not need to be taken too literally. It may therefore also be possible for the Chamber in its composition to change very quickly as a result of the rapid holding of successive elections. However, this should never lead to the proposal remaining in place until once by chance a two-thirds majority of the Chamber for the legislative proposal is created. Now it is precisely with this proposal that we want it to be the case. This was also argued at the time by the GroenLinks spokesperson, Mr Grashoff. I will not discuss this further now, but I have already noted that this amendment of the Constitution no longer actually meets the procedural requirements of Article 137. I was then reminded by Mr Van der Staaij that the proposal is still on the agenda of the Chamber. I would therefore politely suggest that at some point I should also draw the conclusion that this amendment of the Constitution is too long to be topical at present. Should the proposal ever be considered again, the position of the cabinet will be that it would be unconstitutional to adopt the proposal at second reading. That was not contradicted from the Chamber at the time either. I'm giving that on this occasion, now that they're being asked to do this, so let's go with it. However, I would like to say once again: I therefore believe that the right to a fair trial is valuable in the Constitution, even without a constitutional test being carried out. This value lies partly in the fact that the ordinary legislator must, of course, constantly ask himself when adopting laws: is this in line with what is stated in the Constitution, including the new Article 17? Mrs. Bruins Slot already referred to that. Mrs Van Engelshoven asked if there would be another cabinet response to the opinion on administrative sanctions. In recent years, there have been some developments in the area of administrative sanctions. The cabinet is currently preparing a response to the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State on legal safeguards and legal protection in the imposition of administrative fines, in the form of a further report to be sent to the Chamber during the year. We still assume that this will probably be done by a new cabinet, but you never know. The question of the relationship with Article 121 of the Constitution, which thus regulates the right to public access to justice, has been raised. Article 121 lays down that hearings are to take place in public and the judgments are to be duly reasoned in public, with legal exceptions. The judgment shall be given without exception in public. This applies to courts belonging to the judiciary: the courts, the courts and the Supreme Court. In addition, for other administrative colleges, the law provides for public treatment. That is, therefore, under the law, not under the Constitution. Why do we not want to include the right to effective legal protection in Article 17 of the Constitution, Mrs Van Engelshoven asks. For this I refer to what I said in the general section, namely that it is contained in the general term 'the right to a fair trial'. This includes, for example, the right to re-examination, but also the right to effective legal protection. In international literature, we speak of effective remedy in this context. That means that legal protection must actually be there, not just in theory. I shall continue with Mr Koopmans' questions, which I have already addressed in the general section. I would like to add something to that. No, it does not change the legal practice that exists now, it has no material consequences, in the sense that if this Constitutional amendment is adopted at second reading, then something else has to happen. According to the government's belief, the Netherlands is currently acting in accordance with what is contained in the proposal, namely the right to a fair trial. But that means that in the future the ordinary legislator will be kept to it. In order to depart from this, the right to a fair trial must first be deconstitutionalised. I'd like to stay away from a sense of purpose. Because if we all agree that the right to a fair trial should be enshrined in the Constitution, even if that would mean that something would have to change in practice, that does not automatically mean that you do not have it in the Constitution. After all, you could do that. But again, we can stay away from that debate right now, because there is no reason to do so. Mr Bishop pointed out that Moses' tables were already 3,000 years old. The whole idea that fundamental rights are laid down goes back to the Bible. I remember those passages very well, and I agree with him. The changing of texts in Moses' tables was even more complicated than the procedure laid down in Article 137, because that was entirely assumed to be eternally chiseled. That is also a bit the thrust of the article that describes how the Dutch Constitution should be amended: you cannot do that in the afternoon. If the Chamber supports this proposal today, it looks like it has to be adopted by the First Chamber. It is only after a new House of Representatives has been elected that the proposal must reach a two-thirds majority here and on the other side. Only then could the proposal be published in the Official Journal. I would like to confirm that there is no derogation, other than the procedural rules mentioned by Mr Bishop. In fact, they must have a legal basis. In my introductory speech, I referred to the government's explanation of why there is, in any case, a need to include this in the law. I admit that's a new insight that can arise from time to time. What does this add to international treaties? In my introduction, I referred to the various areas not resulting from Article 6 of the ECHR, but which had already been regulated by an ordinary law. Mrs Özütok asked me to reflect on cabinet policy so far. Well, that's what the unity of government policy is about. It will therefore not surprise her that, where I am here arguing for the right to a fair trial to be incorporated into the Constitution, I assume that my colleagues, on behalf of the entire cabinet, have done nothing to undermine or undermine that right to a fair trial in recent years. That is in line with my answer to the group of the VVD: there is no material difference by adopting it. I have just spoken about Rule 120. I thank Mr Van Nispen for his support for the proposal as it is on the table. He also referred to Rule 120. Once again, we may differ on whether there should be a constitutional test, but I hope that in this Chamber it is widely shared that even without that test it is valuable to establish this right to a fair trial in the Constitution, and that the Constitution is also valuable without that test. She has been for a long time. Mrs. Van Engelshoven asked why it took so long. It is a small sentence, but it is always very attached to it. She asked me to confirm that the Constitution is going for the ordinary law. That is absolutely the case, I would like to confirm that. I have answered all the questions with that, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	At the end of my speech, I made a connection with the proposal to anchor the right to life in the Constitution, and I also mentioned a parallel argument. In one case, it has been chosen to come up with a proposal, but not in the case of the right to life. I may have missed the answer, but that has to do with my seniority, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	No, but maybe with mine. I have already written it in the cabinet response, there was no consensus within the state committee on the right to life. The right to life is not something in which the Supreme Court has asked the Government to reconsider. I have therefore seen no procedural reason to reconsider the position on this point. Nor is it the proposal that is on the table here. On occasion, I would like to discuss this again, but it is really a very different matter. So I shall now confine myself to the procedural answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? I give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer on several points. It clarified the scope of the provision and the fact that no substantive change was envisaged. This is a parliamentary motion by Mrs Lokin-Sassen of the CDA. She made this proposal in the First Chamber. We thank the government for its careful work on this proposal. The CDA is happy to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you. Does Mr Koopmans wish for a second term? That's not the case, I see. Then I'm going to see Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. If only to thank the Minister for answering the questions. It's always a pleasure to hear that. I understand the procedural balance on the last point I raised by interrupting for a moment. I regret, however, that this choice has been made, because it is about an extremely fundamental right. If we anchor all kinds of other, sometimes some derived rights in the Constitution as fundamental rights, this would certainly have a place in it. In any case, I am looking forward to the moment when we can talk some more about this, whether in function or not, I shall say. Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can give a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the support. In fact, the only concrete proposal that has been made is that on another occasion I will discuss the right to life with Mr Bishop. I'll hold him to that. That's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. We will vote on the proposed bill next Tuesday.
