ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister of Defence, as well as the people in the public gallery and the MPs. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. Mr Verhoeven has spoken for 75 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. The world is changing. We live and communicate more and more digitally. It creates opportunities, but it also creates risks. We already saw this in the Computer Crime Act III, also known as the hacking law. We dealt with them a few weeks ago. We recently saw this in the vulnerabilities in the election software, not to mention the use of private mail by this cabinet. Today, the bill for the new Intelligence and Security Services Act is before us. That law regulates what the AIVD and the STUDY can and cannot do. The bill regulates both new powers and a change of supervision. Clearly, I have a lot of concerns about this bill. Is this law effective? Does this law make the Netherlands safer? Are all new powers also surrounded by good guarantees? What are the consequences for the economy? My group's 27 pages in the preparatory round, my 20 amendments, which I will explain later, and the 75 minutes I have requested, of course, have given a hint that D66 is concerned about this law. I rarely ask for such a long speaking time, Madam President, you know that. In the last six years, I have only done this once before, that hacking law I was talking about just before Christmas. Today, too, I would like to use enough time to explain precisely and nuancedly where my group's concerns lie about this bill and how it can be removed. I have noticed in recent years and certainly in recent weeks how many people are afraid of a dragnet. The Minister of the Interior, Minister Plasterk, even received the Big Brother Award for it. For this reason, too, I think it is important to speak extensively so that everyone following the debate, at home or here in the public gallery, also sees that Parliament is treating this far-reaching law seriously, because it is a very far-reaching law, let us not forget that. It is also important that the questions and concerns that live with many are properly addressed. Those questions and concerns came to us in large numbers via email and social media. Many people ask us what will happen to this law and deserve a serious answer. For this reason, too, I hope that I will be able to convince my colleagues and the two ministers in trade union K with my input with substantive arguments that the law needs to be adapted to key issues. I first express a word of appreciation for the two services, namely the AIVD and the STUDY. They work hard and meticulously to keep the Netherlands and our soldiers safe on mission. They can't or hardly claim their successes, but misses have great consequences. They therefore have a difficult position in which they have to find the balance between security, effectiveness and fundamental rights over and over again, but they seem to succeed in taking that position. Where in the news one intelligence scandal follows after another, especially about British services and American services, the Dutch services keep to the law. That's what the monitoring report shows. It is only occasional that an illegality is found and therefore not systematically or on a large scale. That is why all these people deserve a great compliment, although this does not mean giving them unbridled powers without control. When presenting this bill, the government made an infographic "The New Reality" which bore the title "The New Reality" from the first search engine in 1993 to the 1 billion websites the Internet had estimated in 2014. Behind that infographic is, of course, a much broader story, namely that of a society that is increasingly digitalising. ICT is increasingly important in people's lives, namely for communication, for the search and storage of information and for leisure activities. Think of Netflix and YouTube. But it is also important for our work, in which we store sensitive business information. There is almost no longer any aspect of our lives to think of that digitalisation does not matter. That indicates the enormous importance of this digital technology. This importance will only increase further in the coming years. Houses become SMART with internet-connected devices. Production methods become digital with robots and 3D printers. Cars are already computers on wheels and with self-driving cars the importance of digital technology is only increasing further. These are developments that offer enormous opportunities for greater convenience in our daily lives, for saving energy and for economic growth and jobs. I stress this enormous importance and the opportunities of ICT in our society for a reason. I do this because too often we only look at the need for detection of a measure. When it comes to ICT and its complexity, the House of Representatives often agrees too quickly and too easily with all kinds of measures that are very damaging to our freedom and our economy and that can even harm our security, simply because one does not understand the overall impact and thus cannot see the consequences. Take the example of the Gaming Law. It first included the power to block websites via so-called dns-blocks. That was a completely useless power that was proposed by this government and would not be safer for people. It would, however, restrict people's freedom and cause economic damage. Fortunately, D66 has been able to pull that power out of that bill, but this shows that the cabinet wants to move too quickly and unthinkingly towards new digital powers. It sounds very tough and simple, but it often doesn't work. Of course, this does not mean that we should be blind to the risks of increased use of ICT. For example, terrorists are now communicating differently than before: cyber threats are rapidly increasing. The cabinet says that's why this law is needed. Of course, it is not surprising that the government continues to search the digital network for ways to keep people safe, because that is its job and the Netherlands is not unique in this respect: throughout Europe and even throughout the world, we see governments trying to get more control over the Internet, because they want to try to protect people. But that often has major consequences for people's economy and privacy, and unfortunately too often it doesn't really work. Take Snowden's revelations that U.S. and British intelligence were collecting uncompromisingly huge amounts of data and information, that they were actively trying to undermine encryption and hacking people on a large scale. Of course, that was a major violation of the privacy of 100 million people. It affected people's online security and cost US technology companies billions, but above all, these revelations damaged people's confidence in the intelligence services, including the Dutch. Now that trust is damaged, it doesn't help if the head of the AIVD publicly pleads for weakening encryption, which was one of the revelations people were so shocked about. In addition, it would seriously damage people's online safety. This is another example in which the internet and measures on the Internet are looked at solely from the point of view of research and intelligence policy. The same applies when a former head of the STUDY asks what kind of privacy you have when you're dead. This creates little confidence in the way the services, or at least the top people of those services, think about privacy. Is the Minister aware that confidence in the services has been damaged in recent years? This was not only due to the Snowden revelations, but also to the statements of the heads of our services. Does the Minister understand that these kinds of statements are counterproductive to the acceptance of new powers? What's the Minister gonna do to regain that trust? In making new laws and regulations, we should not just look at the need for detection. In the hacking law, I also advocated a broader consideration of the consequences of new powers, not only of the search interests of the services, which are in fact always at the forefront, sometimes as a single interest, but also of the impact on people's online safety, on people's online freedom, on the impact on our economy, on our democracy and on our fundamental rights. Of course, it's nice to be able to hack from the police, but it's our job as a Chamber to also see the consequences for society as a whole. For example, this consideration has been made very well in the cabinet's view on encryption. I have often congratulated the cabinet on this. The social and economic importance and security of encryption have been carefully considered, after which the assessment has been made that the weakening of encryption is not desirable, given the importance of encryption for security on the Internet, for the protection of people's privacy and for the confidential communication of government and companies, and therefore for the Dutch economy. That is the kind of broader consideration we need to make today when dealing with this law. D66 wants an open, free and secure internet. We have always shown this in our contribution to parliamentary debates and in the handling of laws, and that will also be the approach of D66 today. The Internet offers huge opportunities for society, for the economy, for people's personal development and also for bringing people in contact around the world. In that sense, we are also simply a party that stands for the individual freedom of people. ICT and the Internet can enhance individual freedom, but people only use the Internet and all these new technologies if they are sure that they can trust them. When everything people do is recorded, stored and analyzed, people's confidence in the Internet erodes. This will eventually lead to a situation in which people will seek an alternative, with all the consequences. That is what we want to prevent. Would people have started using letters or phones if they had known that all communication would be intercepted, stored and analyzed? So much for my general introduction. I shall now move on to the law, because most of this has to be said today. From the developments in the world and my vision of freedom and security in a digital world, I now come to the law that we are discussing here today. The biggest difference from the current law of 2002 lies in the extension of powers. From now on, not only the ether, the air, can be widely tapped, but also the communication about Internet cables. Research-oriented, the cabinet calls it in law. It's popularly called a dragnet. Also the previously started DNA database............................................................................................................................................................... Monitoring is also changing. In order to use the more profound, heavier, special powers, from now on, the Review Committee on Budgetary Powers, I call it the TIB Committee, to assess whether the ministerial consent, which must therefore be given by both ministers in each application for special powers, has been rightly granted. In addition, the CTIVD, the other supervisor we already know, a supervisor who mainly looks at the handling of the services afterwards, makes complaints. If we can believe the government, this law must prevent hell and damnation. The current law on intelligence and security services of 2002 would seriously entangle the AIVD and the STIVD. What, according to the government, is not possible under the current law? Identifying cyber-threat and terrorist activities in a timely manner. Protect Dutch military on mission well. Evaluate the real intentions of risk countries. Preventing economic espionage. Crises abroad well estimate. I think it's all a big deal. If it is really so serious and so urgent, why hasn't a review of this law been carried out sooner? Digitisation has been taking place for decades. What is the first moment when this cabinet received signals from their services that technological developments were hindering their work? Why breed three years on the bill and then ask the House of Representatives to deal with it quickly before the elections in a few months? I'd like a public reaction later, and not always that whispering on the left. Changes to the Constitution to modernise letter secrecy into a communication secret have already begun. In this way, a good, timely constitutional framework could have been created for the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. That would have been possible if the government had not paused that process of amending the Constitution to consider this law first. That order continues to amaze my group. I hope, however, that a proposal for the inclusion of a communication secret in the Constitution is well thought out and that the handling of this law will not lead to new insights. What other conclusion can I draw? For example, was the government afraid that a new law would conflict with the Constitution and would it prefer to adapt the Constitution to the law rather than the other way around, namely to adapt it to the Constitution? Do the ministers concerned understand that this is an undesirable sham solution and that this could damage confidence in the law and the services? I come to the content of the law, taking into account the five main themes for D66 in this law. I have built up this long speech in such a way that everyone can follow exactly what I have to say. I have five main issues on which the law needs to be improved: no dragnet, strong supervision, no legal shortcuts, responsible data analyses and better consideration for cooperating services from abroad. I will then deal with the amendments which are not covered by these five issues, and then I will end with a series of separate, but certainly no less important, questions. No dragnet. Anyone who has been following the news over the last few days, who is looking at the responses to the internet consultations and reading the input of all the experts for the round table, or who is seeing the messages from all kinds of interest groups and human rights organisations flow, can come to a conclusion: the fear of a dragnet with all the Internet traffic of everyone is great. Who you call, what you appt, what sites you visit, how healthy you are, it could all end up as a by-catch to the services. This could be another choice that different parties make here in a different way. It is a choice that is often too simplistic as security versus freedom. As if civil protection and privacy could not go together, as if privacy itself does not need to be protected. If it were a trade-off that should lead to a choice, this trade-off should be based on the principle that large-scale tapping makes us safer. But that's just not certain, because mass surveillance increases the datahooiberg and this law even makes the datahooiberg huge and that makes the pin harder to find. Old-NSA Director Bill Binney I think I have already mentioned this: bulk data kills people. In other words, with massive surveillance and collecting and storing all kinds of data, you don't save people's lives. Last weekend there was a good article in Het Financieele Dagblad about four risks of big data. One of these risks is that one starts to reason from the data rather than from a real problem. Insights that emerge from the data then become leading. That leads to ignoring real threats. The collection of data quickly becomes an end in itself instead of a means. One of the chapters in the explanatory memorandum of this law is called: the threat we do not know. On the one hand, it is precisely the duty of the services to identify the threat we do not know; on the other hand, it is also easy, and that is what is threatening to happen here, to become obsessed with the threat we do not know. The result is that disproportionate resources, I say to this cabinet, are being used to identify possible new threats. Instead of dealing with known threats, collecting large amounts of data becomes the leading goal. Collecting large amounts of data offers the false promise that all unknown threats can be identified in time. But that's a false promise, a mirage in a dry desert. The hard truth is that 100% security is not possible, even in most controlled police states. I am convinced that the services will work much more effectively if they do their job on the basis of concrete information. Concrete information from society, from ordinary people, district agents and civil society organisations. I want to illustrate that with the story of Rezwan Ferdaus. Rezwan was born and raised in Ashland, Massachusetts, a beautiful green suburb of Boston. His parents had emigrated from Bangladesh to the United States. He was a good student and graduated from Northeastern University in physics. When he couldn't find a job, he moved back to his parents and started spending a lot of time online. At some point he began to visit radical Islamic websites and was soon inspired by Al-Qaeda. At some point, he reached out to members of Al-Qaeda through his mosque to commit an attack in America. He made a plan and bought with a PayPal account under a false name a number of drones, replicas of fighter jets, including jet engine, that could fly at 250 kilometers per hour, and carry 20 kilos of explosives. The drones could take off almost anywhere and couldn't be detected by radar. His contact at the mosque resulted in 12 kilos of C4 explosions, a number of hand grenades and an A-47 rifle. With these drones full of explosives, Rezwan wanted to attack the parliament building and the Pentagon. At the same time, two teams of three people fleeing would try to shoot down the two targets. Rezwan had drawn up a hugely complex mission plan with aircraft specifications and software protocols. He had built robotics into the drones, taken maps and photos of the targets and put together a budget for the whole plan. Rezwan filed this plan with his contact at the mosque. Shortly after, he was given the green light to carry out the plan. On September 28, 2011, Rezwan travelled to a storage facility, where we had stored all the necessary equipment. That's where he was overwhelmed by the FBI agents. Turned out what? The person he had approached at the mosque to put him in touch with Al-Qaeda was right to call the police. All of his contacts, which were supposedly Al-Qaeda members, were in fact FBI agents. However, it was not the NSA dragnet that noticed Rezwan's plans and it had not happened thanks to weakened encryption protocols or expensive hacking software. No, it was just an honest Islamic citizen who noticed Rezwan's plans and went to the police. The government seems to recognise this as well, because in response to my questions the remark was made that a towing network would be 'hidden' again. It is also legal that informationism is not easy to stop, especially if the law leaves room for it and data storage is becoming cheaper and cheaper. The law must therefore provide a good guarantee. The law itself must provide a good guarantee, not just supervision, not just the way we organized everything around the law. The law itself must also provide a guarantee against that snooping. At the heart of the question is then: how selective is this key term "research-oriented"? Opponents of the law read it as: very unfocused. Proponents say, no, it's very precise. I don't know how to read it yet. I have read the text of the law, the Minister's answers, all the explanations and opinions very well, but I do not know how to read the word'research-oriented'. The cabinet simply explains it very cumbersomely. Earlier I asked the cabinet if certain possibilities could be excluded, for example the interception, tapping, all communication in a certain Dutch neighborhood or neighbourhood for a certain period of time in order to see if relevant data would have been retrieved for the services. The answer was as follows: that in no case can this meet the legal requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. And: that a commitment is excluded for such reasons. The Minister clicks... I mean nod. I hope he doesn't click, but he keeps nodding when I'm talking. He certainly says that this kind of hypothetical way of tapping, so the large-scale unfocused tapping of an entire neighborhood, is not possible in this law. For me, then, the question remains as to what reason it is not excluded in the law. This is stated in the note on the basis of the report, in the written answers to questions put by the Court. Why isn't it ruled out in the law? When is the acquisition, processing or analysis of all communication in a Dutch neighborhood or neighbourhood justified for a certain period of time? After all, if the situation was not foreseeable, why include the shortcut in the answer that a commitment is excluded for these reasons only, rather than exclusion for all reasons? What guarantee is there in the law itself and for the total number of research assignments? A single research assignment may be limited in scope and time, but that does not mean that the whole of research is as well. How does the Minister view this relationship? What guarantee of that is there in the law now? I think this guarantee is missing. The legality judgements focus on the person or organisation concerned, not on the by-catch and certainly not on all other use of powers. That is why I have tabled an amendment. That was submitted in document No. 34. That amendment does two things. First of all, it is stated that the use of the powers provided for in Articles 48, 49 and 50 in the draft law for research-oriented acquisition, processing and analysis of communication data is as targeted as possible. Secondly, that amendment defines that a research mission or the whole of research assignments is by definition not selective enough if this leads to the systematic monitoring of persons who are not themselves subject to research on a large scale. I would like to respond to this amendment. The amendment is in fact perfectly in line with what the Minister is suggesting to respond to a critical question from D66 in the written input. The amendment should therefore be merely a hammer piece. With the possible acceptance of this amendment, not all the problems have been solved, because the directive on selectivity is there, but is it actually happening? For years, our services have been having problems with the motivation and selection criteria for the diagnostic list in the deployment of Signals Intelligence, the current power to tap the air unfocused. Then there are the questions "what characteristics can we look for when listening to satellite traffic?" and "Can these criteria actually pass the test of criticism?" Over and over again, there are unlawful judgments of our supervisor, the CTIVD. Is the new interception system, which also allows unfocused tapping of the cable, not going to cause the same problem? In fact, what was allowed on the air is now more or less possible on the cable. Then why should I suddenly have to trust that the motivation of the lists of selection terms for processing is now in order? I'd like to get a reaction to that. In the explanatory documents I read a lot about negative filtering, about constantly selecting data and constantly refining research assignments. I think that's an attempt to be reassuring. It also requires the so-called "select while you collect" principle, the selection of data, to be made compulsory. On that point, I have a list of questions for the ministers. How is it determined on which cable fiber the tap is needed? People talk about screenshots all the time, but can't the fiber about which the wanted communication is going to change all the time? How exactly is negative filtered? It is stated that Netflix, YouTube and the like are excluded. I think that's reassuring for many people, but aren't research objects and terrorist networks going to communicate via messages in videos? Is it true that negative filtered information is not acquired by the services? Is it true that they see that information passing through, but that it does not linger in the filters and that there is no registration, acquisition or knowledge whatsoever? One part of the "select while you collect" principle is the retention periods. That means: quickly and continuously select on relevance. It is therefore a continuing obligation to destroy. There is one point I would like to clarify. The data shall be immediately destroyed as soon as it is established that the data is not relevant. The government has added the term "before" in structural terms. I believe that this has been done in response to a comment from the SGP. The interception system, however, the search on the cable, is precisely aimed at filling out white spots, the so-called unknown unknowns. Then how do you determine that data is irrelevant? Is that not impossible and therefore a licence to retain data up to the maximum retention period? The maximum retention period is also longer than usual, much longer. In the case of data acquired from cable, the period of three years is not one year. If the data is encrypted, it may even go up to six years, because then it may also be used for another three years to decrypt the data. You'll have three plus three years, so that could be six years. Both the Council of State and the supervisor, the CTIVD, have doubts about this long retention period. My group, too, has serious doubts about this. I have therefore tabled an amendment which regulates the distinction recommended by the CTIVD between the retention period for the content of communication and the metadata, the so-called user rules. This is regulated in the amendment to item No. 27. For the content, the retention period shall be one year, as with the other powers. For metadata, my group understands the need for extension. These data are very useful to be able to look back in time, to reconstruct things and to discover new networks, but three years is, given the strong degree of privacy breach, still too long. We have therefore proposed that this period should be cut by half and thus brought back to one and a half years. That is still six months longer than with substantive data. By shortening the deadlines, there is automatically a brake on the amount of data collected. This is, moreover, no more than the services can analyse within the normal time frame. So that haystack, that huge bucket of data in which you can't find anything if you're not careful, remains clear and remains the pin we all want to look for, can be found. I come to my second point: supervision. In recent years, the CTIVD, the current supervisor, has built up a reputation as a powerful and reliable supervisor. This is a good thing for Parliament, because unlike other subjects, we often cannot obtain additional information. A lot's classified. This is also necessary, but the importance of national security is often at odds with the breach that secret services by definition make on people's lives and sometimes also with the possibility of parliamentary control. Those concerned, persons examined, often cannot appeal themselves, if they already know that they are being investigated or followed. The case law of the European Human Rights Court, the ECHR, shows that this has an impact on the requirements for monitoring those services. There should be an independent body, monitoring should extend to the various stages of the investigation and monitoring should be effective. Before the CTIVD, the University of Leiden analysed how the supervision of the intelligence and security services should be organised in order to meet this requirement. First of all, there must be an independent binding test prior to the use of a power. There must also be binding and independent ex post judicial supervision and binding and independent complaint procedures. On paper, the bill complies with the introduction of the TIB, the review committee, and with the move from the Minister's complaint handling to the CTIVD to all these three requirements, but will this actually lead to effective supervision in practice? I have a number of questions about this, first of all about the Review Committee on Betting Powers, the TIB. It will test many ministerial permissions in advance of the use of a special competence. The TIB does this with the same motivation and information as the minister, but without access to the systems of the services. That access has the CTIVD, the other supervisor, though. The Advisory Section of the Council of State expressed its concern that the Committee of Inquiry did not have "the necessary understanding and overview of the consequences of implementation practice and thus the proportionality of the use of the various powers." Simply put: the Council of State actually expects that the review committee will rarely refuse permission. In view of the safety risks in the event of a possible refusal, it will be taken into account in the event of doubt. In this case there is no effective supervision, but a stamping machine. I have to say that I am not entirely immune to that fear, but I also see opportunities to prevent the realization of that fear. That starts with experience and knowledge in the review committee. Unlike a supervisor afterwards, you can't gradually build up knowledge if you have to check prior consent. From the day this law enters into force, the TIB, the review committee, will therefore have to be there. How does the government prepare that? Who and which bodies are involved in the start-up of the TIB? Is there any insight into how many experienced judges have sufficient knowledge of this field? When are they gonna get a pulse on whether or not they're interested? How will it be prevented that all Members leave at once in six or twelve years' time? Fortunately, the letter of amendment already provides that there is no longer any distinction between judges within the case law and their colleagues at the Council of State, the Board of Appeal for Business and the Central Board of Appeal. I thank the cabinet for taking over this suggestion. That saves us another amendment and perhaps a few minutes of speaking time. More importantly, in this way we will remove any distinction and increase the pool of judges from which we can fish for a strong review committee. That doesn't mean we're here yet. One of the standards for good supervision, formulated by the Institute for Information Law and which I fully agree with, is the principle of contradiction. No plea should be made in a structural manner without opposition. We do not do that in the case law, we do not do that in the administrative discussions, and we certainly do not do that in the democratic processes. Then why is this happening in the supervision of the AIVD and the STIVD? The answer to the written questions showed that the government does not see any advantage in an audience lawyer, a lawyer who, by default, tries to put holes in the justifications submitted to the review committee, but I cannot imagine that government would be against an expert shell, a circle of knowledge, around the review committee. The committee could then seek advice from that group on questions of doubt and difficulty. That also brings a fresh look at the assessment of the ministerial consents. This is their day-to-day work for the members of the review committee. It is work that is always argued on one side. This simply creates a risk of identifying with the importance of services. It is then good to know that despite the confidentiality of secrecy, if our amendment is accepted, it is legally provided for in a club of people to whom the committee members can ask for advice and opposition. This may arise, for example, when a new technical application of a competence is envisaged. That is why I am voting in favour of this amendment. Thirty-six. The conditions to be met in order to be able to act as an expert and the remuneration may, moreover, be regulated by General Measure of Management. For example, the law provides scope, while lower legislation allows for the necessary organisation of, for example, incompatible functions, safety aspects and the like. I would also like to hear a response to this amendment. I have good news, Mr. Chairman, because I am well on schedule. I'm at half my speech and I've only spoken for 35 minutes. So I could be talking five minutes shorter than I thought. That is also for colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u3	They hang on your lips!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u4	Well, the most important thing now is for the Cabinet to be careful. What surprises me for some time is the way in which monitoring reports from the CTIVD, which is ex post supervision and which we already have, reach the Chamber. When a CTIVD report is ready, it first goes to the minister, not to parliament. The Minister then sends it to Parliament with a reaction. The Minister thus determines when the report becomes public, not the supervisor himself. In order to ensure that reports do not disappear in a drawer until a favourable moment for disclosure occurs, I am thinking of publication on a Friday evening or during a political crisis................................................................................................................................................................. My amendment to item No. 30 to that end. The Minister then remains obliged to respond, but does so after the publication of the report. That shouldn't take long, by the way. It is and will continue to be so arranged that the Minister is given the opportunity to respond before the report is adopted. Some time before the publication, the Minister will be familiar with the content of the report and will be able to work on his response. In this amendment, therefore, we take into account not only the transparency and control position of the Chamber, but also the workload and the possibility for the Cabinet to provide a careful response. What more do you want? Another concern is the relationship between the Review Committee and the CTIVD, i.e. between the existing ex post review supervisor and the new committee to review the Minister's consent. With the CTIVD we have an authorityal supervisor. However, some are concerned that its role is being undermined by the arrival of the new Review Committee, the TIB. The government also writes in the explanatory statement that the CTIVD is in principle bound by the legality judgment of the TIB. That sounds weird to me. Isn't there a fundamental difference between the scrutiny by both committees? Isn't the TIB's test the most comparable to an interim injunction? In fact, summary information is the basis for a rapid and complete review. And is the CTIVD test no longer a ground procedure? This means that we have access to all the systems and there is plenty of time for judgment. I'd like to hear a response to this equation. Of course, we must prevent the judgements of both committees from falling apart. Legal unit must be promoted as much as possible. As soon as there is room for manoeuvre and therefore there is no legal unit between the two committees, the services can make use of it. Since this is essential for effective ex-ante and ex-post monitoring, I make this explicit in an amendment. My text states that this is Amendment No D6607, but I do not know if that is true. In that amendment (34588), No. 39) it is in any case settled that the legal unit remains between the two committees. I would like to say a few words about the funding of both committees of inquiry. Finance is an important condition for effective supervision of services. The funds for this are invested in General Affairs. For example, a direct influence of the Ministry of the Interior, which includes the AIVD, and of the Defence Department, which includes the STUDY. Well, that's lucky to stay that way. At present, the CTIVD has a budget of EUR 1.5 million. The bill states that the CTIVD and the TIB together receive EUR 1 million. I wonder if this is enough. The public conversation that the Chamber had with the CTIVD in December indicated that the CTIVD faces a major challenge. As powers become more digital, it must also have more and more technical knowledge. In addition to giving concrete judgments of legality, it is also increasingly monitoring the system. It just costs capacity. This also brings with it investments and expertise. In addition, the Committee of Inquiry will of course not be able to handle it with just three members. The secretariat will have to have some substantial scope, not only with a secretary and a secretary, but also with some researchers, such as legal staff or technical experts. The CTIVD currently needs EUR 1.5 million. So I cannot imagine that EUR 2.5 million will be enough for CTIVD and TIB together. Can the Ministers explain what this sum of 2.5 million is based on for both committees of inquiry? How much support from CTIVD and TIB is included? Does the CTIVD itself consider this sufficient? And insofar as there is already a TIB in existence, does this committee consider that amount sufficient? Finally, I come to this'strong supervision' block of future funding. Are the ministers prepared to state somewhere that regulators will also be given more resources if AIVD and STUD are given more resources? If more resources are given to the services, this will normally lead to more activities requiring supervision. I have not tabled an amendment on this point, but I would like to announce that I am perhaps going to table a motion on this point. I shall, of course, wait for the answer of the rulers first. Then I go to my third point and that is: no detours, no legal shortcuts. It is important that we do not include in the law any shortcuts that create all kinds of opportunities for the services to do things that are said to be not intended at oral times or in secondary writings, but that it is not regulated in the law itself well, hard and clearly. I am particularly concerned with the use of hacking power, as everyone here in this Chamber knows, the AIVD and the STIVD are already allowed to hack, but an extension is being given to the power. I am also concerned about automated access to databases under Article 39 of the legislative proposal. First of all, let me say that I am pleased that the level of permission for hacking has been increased from head of service to minister. I think this also fits in with the increased importance of secure internet-connected devices for the daily lives of people, our economy and our society. I would also like to congratulate the Minister on his approach to this fundamental issue. There is quite a difference in the way this minister treats the risks of hacking compared to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who, with a rather embarrassing display, tried to convince the Chamber a few weeks ago that he did not know or used purchased hacking software of unknown vulnerabilities, whereas this is evidently the case. I am glad that this Minister of the Interior is talking about this with more knowledge. I do have some questions about the Minister's answers on the possible detours that can be taken in hacking. In the case of hacking my concerns lie in two areas, namely the extent of security and the hacking through third parties. We regularly hear the head of the AIVD in the media about the problems posed by the increased online security awareness for its service. Since the Snowden revelations, people have been paying more attention to the security of their online communications. Thus, more and more messaging apps encrypt the messages sent through them. At the same time, this new Intelligence and Security Services Act continues to have the power to demand the cooperation of anyone who has knowledge of encryption to decipher it. The explanatory documents state that this does not involve any obligations, for example to build back doors into soft or hardware or to weaken encryption. This is in itself reassuring, but such a fundamental issue must also be re-established in the legislative text itself, both for the awareness of this prohibition to the programmer who is nevertheless being asked, and for the supervisor to have a firm grip. My amendment to item No. 13 does exactly that. I accept, in fact, that this amendment can also count on a positive appreciation and assessment from Vocational Training. It is another amendment that lays down in the law what the Minister is actually suggesting is simply the intention, but which is not yet in the law. So please respond to that amendment. Then about security and the use of unknown vulnerabilities to hack. On this point, the Minister said earlier that the main rule is that significant vulnerabilities that harm users' interests on the Internet are reported, at least I quote "provided there are no legal arguments for protecting the current level of knowledge, working methods or sources to waive them'. What exactly is a significant vulnerability? Is it conceivable that the services withhold invulnerability in frequently used consumer software, for example a vulnerability to invade an iPhone? Does the Minister think that a found vulnerability in software used by millions of people every day and making them vulnerable to hacks by, for example, criminals or foreign intelligence services should always be reported? Among other things, in the debate on the hacking law, we have already noted as a Chamber, I believe that this was in an exchange of views with Mr Recourt of the PvdA, that this is a major dilemma. Do you keep an unknown vulnerability open so that you can hack into a terrorist at the same time as risking millions of people being hacked through the same vulnerability used by criminals or foreign intelligence services? Or are you going to close that vulnerability so millions of people are safe from hacks at risk of not hacking into a potential terrorist? Can the Minister provide an insight into how this consideration is being made? How are the importance of online security for people and the economic impact of keeping a vulnerability open? I would like to comment on this. I come to the amendment to item No. 48 about hacking through third parties. The Minister says that I would miss the fact that, in most cases, the services do not have direct physical access to the automated work of a target. I don't know how the minister got there. Can he explain that? Next, the Minister says that it is not desirable to limit the number of links between the automated work of a target and the services. But that is not at all what I am trying to do with my amendment. I do not know which amendment the Minister has read, but my amendment states that there must be a technical relationship, nothing more and nothing less. I would like a further response to this amendment. I'm here to consult informants. Anyone whose service expects him to have the necessary information may be contacted. This can be met by giving automated access to, for example, a database. Is it true that an informant can refuse to provide that information? What safeguards are in place against the imposition of undue pressure? How is it ensured that voluntary cooperation is actually voluntary? I can imagine that small companies or groups of people who depend on the government would not dare to say no so quickly. I ask this question because I can imagine that a service would rather go this way instead of hacking into the relevant database. If data retention of telecommunications is ever to be re-established, the cabinet is making an awful effort to do so, and I can imagine that it would be preferable to have access to the database of communication providers rather than to look for the right cable. That while both hacking and tapping are provided with more safeguards. So you take the path of the least resistance. How do these powers relate to each other, according to the Ministers? When are the services going to choose which authority? How do we prevent the services from hacking or tapping cables because they can ask for access to all possible databases? The fourth theme is the responsible data analysis. Communication is becoming more and more digital. Thanks to the new interception system, the services also have more and more data at home. We need to handle this digital data carefully, not only because of the privacy of the individuals about whom the services have information, but above all because of the effective performance of our tasks and thus for our national security. Part of this is reflected in the bill. It is therefore a question of ensuring that the promotion or adoption of measures against a person is not permitted solely on the basis of automated data analysis. For gourmets: this can be read in Article 60 (3). It seems very sensible. As I argued before, human considerations and sources appear to be the most effective. Data analysis can certainly support human considerations and sources, but cannot completely replace them. That is why we must first of all ensure that the quality of analysis and data processing is high and that the models and algorithms are reliable. To this end, I had the amendment on item No. 15, but the government has already taken this on board in the letter of amendment. On this point, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u5	The Verhoeven amendment (Doc. 15) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u6	I do have a number of questions about the way in which it is implemented. What standards does the government want to use for the models, algorithms, techniques and methods used for processing? What are the chances of error in that? What error margin in terms of false positives and false negatives does the government consider acceptable? How does this relate to other services in the Netherlands and abroad? I think there's another risk to the bill, and I think it's this. If services start to analyse automated data and are able to retrieve them on a large scale, there is a chance that a more or less complete picture of a person can be made. Just the user data of a mobile phone, that metadata, give a pretty intimate insight into someone's life. In fact, I think it is appropriate to provide an additional guarantee for this. The amendment in part No. 26 takes care of this. It states that the minister concerned must give his consent before anyone can be so profiled, so before a complete or almost complete picture can be obtained of aspects of the private life of individuals or organisations. Does the Minister share that view? I'd like a response to that. Responsible data analysis also extends to the presentation of that data. I asked questions about this in the preparatory round. Most of them have been answered. The reliability of the data and a source indication are mentioned, but I did not get a clear answer about the context of information. How is the context of the data transmitted to the researcher looking at the product of the automated analysis? An example. It makes quite a difference for the risk assessment of the AIVD whether I watch jihad movies because I would radicalize, or that I do it because I am a terrorist spokesperson of D66 in the Lower House. So the context of a certain handling of data is important. In addition, I am curious to see to what extent psychologists are involved or become involved in training analysts in the handling of results of automated data analyses, and in how knowledge about how people interpret data is incorporated in the way those analyses are presented. I come to my final point, point five: better consideration of cooperation with foreign services. There has been a great deal to be done on this subject in recent years. What are the Americans doing at satellite station Buren? Have Dutch services obtained data through friendly services that they were not allowed to acquire themselves? How seriously is it actually considered how a foreign service respects its own legislation and its own fundamental rights? How do we share data with neighbouring countries as effectively as possible to stop terrorists? In order to develop two D66-motions of former colleague and former D66-spokesman Gerard Schouw in this field, the CTIVD has conducted research into the implementation of the cooperation criteria by the AIVD and the STUDY, which was report No. 48.... and the exchange of unevaluated data by AIVD and STIVD, and that was Report No. 49. I have a few questions and an amendment on both subjects. In order to weigh responsibly whether a foreign service is eligible for cooperation, AIVD and STIVD have to make a weighting note. That note must show to what extent the foreign service in question meets the legal criteria for cooperation, the legal powers and technical possibilities of that service, the risks involved in cooperation and the conditions under which such risks can be mitigated as much as possible. Those notes are therefore an important guarantee, both to prevent information falling into wrong, potentially dangerous hands, and to protect privacy. Only now it appears that the AIVD and the STIVD gave little priority to these notes until the beginning of 2015. Although a catch-up is now underway, the CTIVD reported in May 2016 that the concepts are limited in depth and quantity, and that information on parts is missing. That worries me. What has happened since then, I ask the rulers. How many notes are ready now? What part of the countries with whose services we cooperate systematically or occasionally are those notes? As a result of the delay, the legislative proposal contains a special piece of transitional law. Article 166 of the bill states that the weighting notes are only required two years after the rest of the law. Two years. Until then, cooperation relations can apparently be entered into without consideration and without ministerial consent. How do the ministers view that? How are they going to fulfil their ministerial responsibility in this area for two years? Why don't we just delete this transitional article? That is what I propose in my amendment to item No. 50. Why don't we just say to the services: those notes should have been ready by now; make sure there's a workable version? Over the last few years, intelligence and security services have repeatedly demonstrated the need to cooperate across national borders. Terrorists travel easily from place to place in the European Union. When terrorists spread their preparations across several countries or choose the country with the weakest service, they remain easily out of sight. So sharing information is necessary and fortunately this is happening more and more and better. The bill also offers plenty of room for that. That goes so far that, without a cooperation relationship or a weighting note, unevaluated data may be provided without the Minister's consent. That means a dense box of information can be given to an intelligence agency we don't know. It makes me uncomfortable. Of course, the law states that this can only be done on grounds of urgency and after the Minister's consent, but how can the Minister make a responsible assessment if he or she does not know what information he or she is handing over and who he or she is handing over that information to? Another guarantee on this point is of little use: informing the NCTV immediately can only mean something for the future. It cannot, with retroactive effect, reverse the knowledge of unevaluated data by a foreign service. My amendment, which has already been mentioned, to point No. 50 also deletes sharing unevaluated data with these unknown services. I'd like a response. Then I also have a question about sharing raw data with a service that we do work with, for example the NSA, the CIA or the GCHQ. How do we know that the unevaluated tap doesn't contain any confidential traffic from a lawyer or journalist? How do we know that the Patriot Act does not remove the protection that would be required in the Netherlands as regards the protection of these data? I would like to comment on this important point. In doing so, I have completed my five main themes and come to the discussion of my amendments which were not to be included in those five main themes. This is how things go: you opt for a build-up, but a number of amendments have not been discussed. The first amendment concerns the protection of the source of a journalist. The Netherlands has already been convicted several times for lack of source protection. This bill does not seem to provide sufficient protection. The NCTV has concerns about this point and in November Free Press Unlimited, the Dutch Association for Journalists and the Society of Redacteurs also expressed strong criticism of the new bill we are discussing today. That is why I have the amendment to item No. Forty-nine. This seeks to repair this in two respects, firstly by making the provisions of Article 27 of the draft law for the protection of communication between lawyer and client also applicable to data relating to the identity of a source of a journalist obtained through the exercise of a special competence, and secondly by adjusting the definition of what is a source of a journalist. It now reads, according to the bill: persons who have provided information to a journalist for disclosure. Why, my group wonders, should such information have been provided for disclosure? How can the AIVD or STUDY find out for what purpose these data have been provided to the journalist? Why not simply follow the definition of the European Court of Human Rights, which reads: any person who provides information to a journalist? The amendment therefore deletes "for disclosure" from the definition. This also protects sources that provide background information and want to remain off the record, or which are otherwise not directly linked to a publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u7	I think I should give Mr Verhoeven some time to drink a glass of water. But I also have a question about the amendment. We are also struggling with this theme. The amendment makes an analogy between the protection that a lawyer and a client have, and that of a journalist and his source. Trying to apply it. But what is the definition of a journalist? Lawyer is, of course, a legal title. Can someone who so to speak has a blog say: I am a journalist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u8	That's a good question. I believe that the cabinet itself writes that the definition of a journalist is very problematic, and that is why the solution has been sought in the term'source'. I think that in itself is a justified way of thinking, provided you do not limit the term "source" too much. The cabinet then limits the term "source" by saying that disclosure is a source. Then you make the term narrower than the source we want to protect. That is why we have tried to solve it by improving the source definition. For example, we want to ensure that the fact that a journalist is difficult to define does not mean that the source is more easily disclosed wrongly or unwantedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u9	I understand you're looking for a definition of a source. But Mr Verhoeven's amendment contains the term 'journalist'. I think he should give some thought to that himself. The source may be clear, but where the information is going isn't. I may also call myself a journalist; I do not think it is a protected title.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u10	That's right. It's not a protected title. If that's what's worrying, I'd definitely like to take a look at that. Of course, we want to ensure that as many sources as possible are protected. We shall also do so by choosing the wording of the word "journalist" in such a way that it is as broad as possible. But I can't imagine turning journalist into a protected profession right now. That is the problem we have at this point, when a lawyer is protected. That's what the cabinet's going to do. We have sought a solution whereby we do it through the source. If that is not enough for the Christian Union, I would like to look at that. It remains difficult, because everyone can indeed write and publish something on the basis of something he has heard from someone. Soon you'll be heading in the direction of communication that you want to protect. If you do that too narrowly, you have the risk that too much communication between a source and a journalist might fall into the wrong hands. At least that's what we want to avoid. I will look at it closely and thoroughly and will be happy to return to it in my second term, in which I will probably have a few minutes of speaking time. In my view, I would have stuck to the next point, namely the amendment to section 6. That is an amendment on the grounds for processing. Under Article 19 (3), no processing of personal data takes place because of a person's religion or belief in life, race, membership of a trade union, health and sexual life. For political reasons, I can imagine why processing could take place purely or mainly on that ground, but I do not understand that of a person's civil status or nationality. The note on the report does not explain this either. It refers only to the fact that this is considered sensitive in the Protection of Personal Data Act or the Police Data Act. Isn't it sensitive, I ask the Cabinet, when the AIVD or the STUDY would investigate or process data about someone just because that person is Amerikaan or Iranian? Or because that person is single and childless, when you might expect something different from a 40-year-old? Why don't we just rule out those kinds of possibilities legally? Does the recent Amnesty International report by Julia Hall not show that European security and terror laws are increasingly causing discrimination? It's an interesting report to take to you on a sloppy Sunday night. It contains worrying trends and developments. On the basis of the findings of that report, which writes about all kinds of terrorism legislation in almost all the countries of Europe, should we not be insecure? I also have my doubts about the term "sexual life." This implies that sexual orientation taken on itself, and also asexuality, is not covered by protection. The amendment therefore changes that term to "sexual orientation." I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Minister more or less excludes the hacking of a device placed in the body, such as a pacemaker, in his response. That's one of those things. Why isn't this just laid down in the law? Isn't that a better guarantee than his "imagination"? That is why I have the amendment to item No. Forty-five, with which I try to limit that better. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on I apologise for not treating all the amendments in order. I have chosen to do it block by block, because this is better in line with the construction of my speech. That is why I thought a thematic organisation would be better in this case. I hope that colleagues will forgive me for this classification and that they will still be able to follow it. This amendment concerns a covering fee for telecommunications providers. The bill now states that these providers are reasonably compensated for the costs they incur in order to meet the obligations imposed on them to cooperate with the orders of the services. The explanatory memorandum explains that in principle it concerns all costs incurred. I would like to make a legal statement that it is indeed a full compensation. Of course, it is a question of reimbursement according to reasonableness, so that excessive declarations do not have to be reimbursed. Why? Not only because the telecommunications providers would not receive compensation in the earlier stage of the bill. They could only pass it on to their client. So you would have to deal with the ironic situation, that customers are going to pay for their own eavesdropping. However, I am tabling this amendment mainly because paying for data is an effective guarantee against the information I fear. If the services themselves have to bear the costs of the technical provisions to be maintained and the personnel costs involved, this will prevent an over-easy commitment or perpetuation of powers. The same companies should also be able to publish aggregated data on the obligations to participate to which they have to comply. This proved to be lacking when I passed the ten standards for good supervision of intelligence and security services at the Institute for Information Law. I have mentioned it before, that is also a nice piece of work. The possibility for companies to publish aggregated data appeared to be lacking, although it is very valuable. In this way everyone can gain insight into the order of magnitude of the interception system that we are threatening to establish here. This can create confidence that there is no such thing as a towing net. The cabinet always claims that there is no such thing as a towing net. If this is not the case, companies' ability to publish aggregated data could make a significant contribution to this. That's why I'd like a response. Or, if we do get a dragnet and so we seem to be going in the wrong direction, it could stimulate timely intervention. At the same time, due to the abstract level at which these data are revealed, no insight is given that leads to a good understanding of the mode operandi of the services. That is why I have tabled the amendment to item 37. Next, I come to a series of amendments, which, like the previous amendment, monitor the increase in public accountability for the work of the services. The starting point is: closed where it has to be and open where it can be. That also means, as far as I am concerned, that there is no need for a letter for requests for inspection. Such an application should simply be made online. Since that is not possible so far, I am putting it to the House with the amendment on item No. Twenty-nine likes to be in the law. In addition to this information on request, there are also some powers which are subject to an active notification obligation for the services. These include the most intrusive powers, for example the intrusion of a home, the tapping of laptops and mobile phones, and the opening of letters. That list is unchanged from the current Act on Intelligence and Security Services 2002. In my opinion, this does not recognise that DNA research is also a particularly far-reaching competence that belongs in this list. It is not for nothing that the CTIVD forbade that type of investigation without an explicit legal basis and therefore the proposed regime is still surrounded by many safeguards. With the amendment in part No. So 14 DNA research is added to the notification list. I'd like to hear a response to this. I will also come right back to the CTIVD report number 51, which appeared last week. The AIVD proved to have the notification process in order. It shall be examined in good time whether notification is possible or whether it should be postponed. And people are actually notified, so informed. At the STIVD however, the process was not "in control." There are delays of years and there is no overview of who may need to be notified. I would like to hear from the Minister of Defence much more precisely than in the accompanying letter to the report how, and within what time the recommendations of the CTIVD will be followed on this point. When STUDY meets the law again, is the question. Public accountability also includes an annual report. For the CTIVD and the TIB, that is settled in the bill we are discussing today. For permission by the court of The Hague, which is necessary for example in the case of lawyers and journalists...................................................................................................................................................................................... With the amendment in part No. 35 I therefore arrange for this to happen. Otherwise, we are in danger of getting secret courts, and no one knows when, how often and in what way permission is given in this area. Finally, in this sub-block, the responsibility to Parliament. The law formulates the special powers technologically neutral. This creates the risk of future unplanned applications that could lead to a far-reaching breach of privacy. In that case, I would like the Minister to inform Parliament directly and fully. Instead of waiting for the supervisor to notice something like that, we just want to hear it from the minister. The amendment in part No. 9 shall ensure that this is done. If we can do it publicly, if we cannot do it publicly, then we can do it confidentially with the committee secretly, also called the CIVD, which is quite different from the CTIVD. But everyone who sits here knows that, of course. Such a new application is in fact an extension of the powers of the services. If that happens, Parliament should be able to decide whether this is permitted and whether a legislative amendment is needed that will introduce additional safeguards. We must not allow ourselves to be guided by the Minister's judgement. In his view, regardless of the interpretation of the competence, the current safeguards will certainly be sufficient. We are talking about our own possibilities and those of the group chairmen who are responsible for monitoring the intelligence and security services, also known as the secret committee. I come to a number of specific questions. They were not to be included in any of the five overarching themes, nor were they to be included in the amendments I have just discussed. But they do demand the attention. First of all, it is about the economic effects. There are many concerns about this law from the business community as well. Dutch ICT companies and technical companies and our digital mainport warn of possible adverse economic effects of this law. After the Snowden revelations, we saw an increase in the construction of data centres in Europe, including in the Netherlands. They provide much needed jobs in Amsterdam, Groningen, Drenthe, Limburg and the rest of the Netherlands. The Minister refers in his replies to the business impact test. However, I do not see anywhere a thorough analysis of what this law does with our digital economic location environment, while several companies strongly warn about this in their contributions. Can the Minister still have this investigated? Is he prepared to look at the economic impact of the evaluation? The attribution research, i.e., where do cyber attacks come from? In the note following the report, the Minister says that access to the cable is very important for attribution research. Then I hear Mr Bertholee say in the press: we know, but proof is difficult. There is little point in saying to Russia or China: we know that you have committed an attack. Is unfocused cable access important or not for attribution research? What is the Netherlands doing in this area, also in a European context? The answer by the cabinet to the questions of the Lower House confirms that in a single case the status of an existing person can be accepted for an operation. I am still not quite clear how it can actually deal with the consequences for the person copied. How, for example, is it arranged that if the person X's impersonator, i.e. the person who takes over the identity of person X with a unique name, commits a fact that is detrimental to the reputation of the same person X, after which it ends up on the internet, it does not stick to that person X? How do we protect the life of the copied person X? When I asked how it was arranged for a package to be intercepted by the secret service, no response could be given by the cabinet for operational reasons. But the follow-up questions could have been answered. That is why I am re-affirming this. There is a chance that a recipient, when a package is intercepted by the services, will request a replacement shipment if the carrier cannot say within a few days that this package has been recovered and is on its way again. If such a replacement shipment is requested, the carrier will have to pay for it. Does she have to rely on her insurance? If so, how can this be done without breach of confidentiality? If that is not necessary, will the service or the government fully reimburse the costs incurred? I conclude with a very brief conclusion. It is perfectly conceivable for me and my group that the AIVD and the STIVD should have wider access to the cable. This must, however, be accompanied by better legal safeguards and much more stringent supervision. I have identified in my five key points which my group will examine during the examination of the law and our amendments. I have set out those points in the last hour. I would like to repeat them briefly: no dragnet, strong surveillance, no detours in the form of shortcuts, responsible data analyses and better consideration in foreign cooperation. That is the five main points. The chairman wrote them down, too. That's very nice. So my attitude is constructively critical. I hope that the response from both ministers will be as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u11	I thank Mr Verhoeven for his very thorough speech. I would like to give him an opportunity to clarify one of his amendments. That is the amendment in respect of item No. 34, that's about the dragnet. D66 adds: "The research assignment is formulated as concretely as possible and does not lead to the systematic acquisition, processing or analysis of data on a large scale in itself or in conjunction with other research assignments." The explanatory statement then states that the applicant does not want all communications in a particular Dutch neighbourhood or neighbourhood to be intercepted for a certain period of time. What does D66 mean by "large scale"? I think it's important that we get that straight. I would like to invite Mr Verhoeven to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u12	The amendment, of course, concerns the combination of'systematic' and 'large scale'. We think that's too much like a dragnet, and we don't want that. We think it's conceivable that you're systematically investigating things on a small scale. That is what is happening now, and that is a normal part of the intelligence work of the services. If it happens on a large scale, for example, you are talking about systematically tapping an entire area. It is about the large-scale and therefore unfocused tapping of a given geographical area for a longer, structural time. Then you have that combination of "systemic" and "large scale." We think that's too unfocused. That is what we want to capture with the amendment. That is the purpose of the amendment. I think that was the amendment, but perhaps I am confusing the numbers, inspired by the Minister's reply in the note to the report. We asked whether it would be possible to completely tap a particular area. The Minister replied: no, because this will never pass the test on the basis of proportionality and subsidiarity. We found that one of the most convincing passages of the cabinet in recent months in the area of this law. We have therefore tried to incorporate this into the law. It is not now in the law, it is only in the note on the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u13	Is this about the size of the area or the amount of communication that is then intercepted within that area? Would it be possible, for example, to apply it on a few streets or to apply it to one station, if it is up to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u14	We believe that, as a service on the cable, if you are looking for the prevention of certain terrorist behaviours or threats, it should be temporarily possible to target more than one individual and focus on what is happening. We do not want this to happen systematically on a very large scale for a long time. That is absolutely possible in this legislative proposal and then there is also the possibility to keep those dates for three years. We think that's far too unfocused. Then you get a huge database that you can't find anything in. That is what we want to prevent, for the sake of safety. Safety is paramount for D66, but the entire House of Representatives knows that by now. But a more limited, temporarily broader way of looking, to be able to quickly focus on the most targeted way of looking, which is the most effective way of looking, would be the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u16	It was nice to repeat this briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u17	You really had 75 minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u18	Minus two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u19	Minus two minutes. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. I hope the ministers have breathed. It was a long college of Mr Verhoeven. I will do it a little bit shorter, but I will start far, namely in Singapore, where there are currently detectors in public space that can measure or smoke in areas where that is not allowed or dispose of waste where that is prohibited. In addition, the government of this city state wants many more sensors to monitor its own people: where exactly do citizens drive, where do they find themselves and what do they do? Through networks connected to citizens' smartphones, the government can watch directly and live with all residents. In the near future, all that data must be stored together in what The Wall Street Journal has described as a kind of digital crystal ball with information about everything, about the people and buildings all over the city. Why do I start with Singapore? Because this city state is way ahead of what is going to be called the "internet of things" or the "internet of things." We make self-driving cars that connect with each other via sensors on the road. We build smart energy meters that charge the electric car, spin the laundry at night or make coffee in the morning. The baby cradle cradles when the baby weeps and the baby bump keeps track of how the baby breathes and sleeps and sounds the alarm if necessary. Or think of the sleep, heart rate or step meter you're wearing or Amazon digital butler Alexa. It works on your voice and seeks information for you or orders you an Uber. Another example is Sony's contact lens camera, a contact lens that can always film as long as you have your eyes open. These are new digital techniques that offer unprecedented opportunities to make our lives easier and solve problems, but they are also technologies that offer unprecedented new possibilities for eavesdropping, espionage or hacking: the car, for example, when you're on the move or your phone or laptop when you're at home. Secret services that watch and read with you when you're e-mailing or dating, when you're calling your loved one or when you're doing banking. Even if you don't work with that computer or phone, these devices can be used by others as a camera or microphone. In the future it can also be done via chips in the body. It was not so long ago, 2002, that the Chamber passed the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Since then, the world has changed, much changed. We have finally put the 20th century behind us, the time of power blocks and the struggle between nation states. We live in a world where great dangers arise from informal networks operating internationally, with infinite opportunities to sow fear and disrupt our society. We must fight this and our secret services must be able to warn us about it. The SP agrees with both ministers that a new law on the secret services is needed, but we are far from convinced that this is the right law. We're not alone in this. The Council of State has a lot of criticism, as well as the CTIVD supervisor, the Justice Council and the Human Rights College. We have three principles in our assessment of this law. The action of secret services must be proportionate, first of all. This means that especially potential perpetrators, such as potential terrorists, should be the subject of investigation and innocent citizens as little as possible. The law must also clarify what we approve of the AIVD and the STIVD, also with a view to technological developments in the future. We need to know what we will say yes to now if we adopt this law. Finally, of course, the law must also be effective. He must be able to protect our citizens as effectively as possible from terrorism, espionage, fraud and abuse. We still have a lot of questions. We have many doubts as to whether this law is proportionate, clear and effective. But, of course, it begins with us taking our secret services seriously, believing the information that our services provide and investing in sufficient people and resources. In 2003, the Netherlands went to war against Iraq. That was on the initiative of the United States, which had warned at the United Nations that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and was about to use them. The AIVD and the STIVD had no confirmation of the claims of the U.S. secret services and even questioned their claims. But our government decided not to believe our own secret services, but America's. We know the result. Iraq was shot in the head and ISIS grabbed her chance. This terrorist movement managed to create a caliphate in which the citizens are brutally oppressed and to commit attacks, including in our neighbouring countries. I would like to begin by thanking the employees of the AIVD and the STIVD for the important and difficult work they are doing. If they make mistakes, this is widely measured, not least by myself, because at that time the safety of our citizens is at risk. But if they succeed, they will not receive compliments, because their work and thus their successes remain secret. That is why I would like to congratulate those people today. I would like to say to them: I do not know exactly what you have done, but I do know that you have done a lot of good. It is not for nothing that I have worked so hard to reverse the government's cuts in AIVD and STUDY and given all the support to enable new and much-needed investments to be made. We need the secret services very much, especially in the fight against terrorism. On 15 September 2010, the House of Representatives had a very interesting meeting with Ernst Hirsch Ballin, the then Minister of the Interior, of the CDA-huis. That was almost three years before Edward Snowden's revelations. During that consultation, I asked about our government's views on the very large-scale collection and analysis of information. I also asked whether the government considered this to be an effective means of combating terrorism. "I agree with Mr Van Raak," said Hirsch Ballin. He also said: "The unfocused exploitation of huge data files makes no sense." I ask these ministers why they have turned on this point. Why have they tabled a bill that does allow the unfocused exploitation of huge data files? In recent years, Western Europe has also suffered terrible attacks, in Brussels, Paris, Berlin, London, Madrid, Copenhagen and elsewhere. Each time we saw that the attackers were known to the secret services, but that information about them was not exchanged well enough and not fast enough. We also saw that assailants were part of international networks that were mostly in the picture, but that were not dealt with enough. I asked the minister earlier about an American government investigation from May 2015 which indicates that mass retrieval of bulk data would not have contributed to preventing attacks. However, the Minister did not answer that in the written answers, although this question is, of course, of the utmost importance in order to assess whether the extension of powers is really necessary. Ministers want the secret services to be able to "create research-oriented interception in the cable domain." That means getting unfocused information in bulk. In ordinary human language means that the AIVD and the STIVD can go along with everything that happens on the internet. This law is as it is called "technology independently formulated." This means that the law deliberately does not include all the technologies that the secret services are allowed to break into. I agree with the ministers that this is very useful, because we do not know which technologies will be developed in the future and because we do not have to change the law every time. But I ask the Ministers whether they also see the disadvantage of opening the door to the services to work on new technologies, some of which I mentioned at the beginning. We cannot even imagine these new technologies. The Ministers are actually asking us to agree to a law that will enable the secret services to work on new future technologies, which we do not yet know. I don't think you should ask that question to the House of Representatives. In any case, I think that we are following the technology far too much in politics. Scientists and companies are developing technologies. We are then asked what we think about it and whether we can regulate it, and I think it is much more important for politics to discuss which technologies we like and which we do not. Ministers say that greater powers for the secret services can be justified by the extension of supervision. For example, ministers need to authorise the use of funds more often than now. I think these ministers know very well what is going on, but of course they are not independent. That's why there's going to be a Review Committee on Bet Powers, the TIB, consisting of three people. They're independent, but I don't think they know what's going on. The Council of State, the CTIVD Court of Justice and the CTIVD Supervisory Board also have many doubts about this review committee, as it does not receive the information necessary for supervision. And what happens if this review committee approves a performance, but the CTIVD supervisor has to reject it later? Ministers want a technology-independent law, so that we do not have to adapt the law to every new technology, but the human infringement is not technologically independent. It matters whether the services are watching via your smartphone or taking over the control of your electric car. The Chamber must be able to take part in the decision on the use of new technologies, even in the future. Now the CTIVD supervisor can give us access to her reports on the use of new techniques, as recently happened with the use of DNA. That is not structural, however, and that was only afterwards. I therefore ask the Ministers how we in the House of Representatives can in future be informed of the use of new powers through new technologies, so that the Chamber can discuss this and form an opinion on it before this kind of new powers are actually used. An increasingly important area of competence is hacking, including through third parties and also through innocent citizens. This can be very targeted at suspects and in all technologies connected to the Internet. That may be a very good tool for secret services, especially in the fight against potential terrorists, but the hack of one is also a gateway for the other. The AIVD and STIVD use weaknesses in systems, but I ask the ministers whether we should not correctly report and close these weaknesses. Companies may also be required to cooperate in decrypting information. I believe that citizens and businesses should be as secure as possible, for example through encryption. What is the difference between undoing an encryption and weakening encryption? When information is stored massively, in bulk, it can only be processed automatically. That will happen with models and algorithms that create patterns and profiles. The ministers themselves say that these analyses give correlations and not causality. I quote from the ministers' documents: 'A correlation should always be considered, as findings may otherwise lead to stigmatisation and lead to discrimination'. Can the Ministers explain how we are going to do that? Are the AIVD and the STUDY ready for this? I'm afraid not. Monitoring automated processes can, I fear, also only be automated. It is a kind of meta-supervisory by CTIVD supervisor on the processes, but not on the consequences for individuals. Of course, even greater is the problem if our services are to share unevaluated data with services from other countries. We do not know what kind of data is being shared, we do not know what kind of operations are being carried out and we do not know what kind of measures are being taken on the basis of them. However, this is done with data that our services have collected about our own citizens. This material can then be shared with our services by other services, which can also be used again. All this is done on the basis of information that the AIVD and the STUDY are not supposed to have under this law. Does the Minister see a big hole in the law here? We held an interesting debate with these ministers on cooperation with foreign intelligence services in April 2014. Edward Snowden's revelations were the direct cause for this. Looking back on this, I have to say that this has been an uncomfortable debate because ministers have always talked about protecting our own citizens from our own services, while, of course, the great danger to our citizens comes from the action of foreign services. Our services are now making a better assessment of cooperation, but I share the concerns of CTIVD supervisor that this is mainly on paper. I also don't understand why the application was delayed by two years. When countries abuse our common fight against terrorism, we must appeal to countries politically. It is scandalous that we continue to leave whistleblower Snowden to his fate and not help him, for example by granting him political asylum in our country. Ministers held a public consultation for a first version of this law, which led to an unusually high level of criticism and unprecedented critical comments. On this basis, too, the Minister has made a new plan and we are discussing it in this Chamber today. Moreover, this treatment has led to a number of adjustments. Despite all this discussion and despite all these changes, the criticism remains, not least of supervisor CTIVD. I would therefore ask the Ministers to respond to all this criticism, including the latest criticism that the CTIVD sent us after the changes made by the Minister. In particular, I would like to know whether they agree with the CTIVD that it is currently unable to carry out a proper review and audit because there are no concrete legal safeguards to be assessed. I would like the ministers to go into all the points mentioned by the CTIVD. I would like to mention concerns about the implementation of the duty of care, especially in the case of automated data processing, concerns about the targeted and selective use of powers, concerns about the effectiveness of supervision, the use of hacking powers and the protection of our citizens in the sharing of information with foreign services. I would also like them to respond to the obligation to keep data for three years, an unnecessarily long period which is much longer than in the neighbouring countries. I would also like to hear what the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the retention obligation means for this law. The discussion of this law focuses mainly on the collection, processing and processing of digital information, but this law is of course about much more, namely about everything that the AIVD and the STUDY can and can do. Earlier, I mentioned the collection of DNA. In this connection, I asked the Minister what he meant by the return of material. The minister didn't want to answer that earlier. That makes me very curious. I would therefore like to hear a more detailed explanation. Who can ask the secret services to search people? How is this governed by this law? Of course, we know the example of Prince Bernard, who in the past had his friends at the service asking about people. Is that out of the question? In order to defend our freedom and the rule of law, several institutions in our country have a different role. Secret services should be able to operate secretly against persons and organisations operating underground. The task of journalists is precisely to get information on the table and in public. Both these tasks are important to our rule of law. Those two tasks should not be confused. The new law also allows secret services to contact anyone to become a cop or to provide information, including journalists. I think it's sanding. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. This also applies to journalists abroad, especially in war zones. If the journalist is discovered, all other journalists are also at risk. The same applies to emergency workers. I made the proposal to exclude journalists from people who may be approached by the secret services. This also applies to aid workers abroad. It is good that the Minister has laid down detailed rules for eavesdropping journalists and lawyers, including with a view to protecting sources. In that case, permission from the judge is required. I would like to extend that to other groups, such as notaries and representatives of the people. I was also wondering how that actually works for politicians like MPs. For our work, it is very important for us to be able to gather information freely, including reports from whistleblowers, for example. People should then be able to trust that they can speak confidentially to members of parliament, for example. Members of parliament must be sure that their sources are always well protected. This is also one of the various tasks we have. These are also different roles that we have in our rule of law. Can the Minister tell us exactly how the process of eavesdropping politicians is going, who decides about it, who is aware of it and how we can defend ourselves against it? The current Secret Service Act states that people who have been subject to investigation will receive a notice after five years: the obligation to notify. The AIVD didn't want to stick to this at first. We therefore had to move heaven and earth to make sure that the service actually did so. I even had to promise a real cake when the first citizens got a note. Eventually, the AIVD fulfils this duty; with a lot of people's commitment. The STUDY doesn't comply with this law yet. I am glad that the notification obligation has remained, but it must be more than a paper construction, a paper duty. How are we going to ensure that many more notifications are sent to citizens? If people have complaints, they can contact the CTIVD supervisor. There is much to say for that, because the CTIVD is best able to obtain and assess information. I still wonder why the role of the National Ombudsman has fallen completely. Any citizen who wishes to report a wrongdoing can go to the House for whistleblowers, which can also allow an independent investigation. An exception has been made for the secret services. How is the co-operation between the house and the CTIVD? Is the CTIVD willing and competent to investigate at the request of the house? Can whistleblowers involved in secret services have an investigation conducted by the House for whistleblowers? Do whistleblowers who cannot now go to the House but who do file a complaint with the CTIVD always get legal protection? The Minister has taken time for this law. He also listened to criticism. But still, this law isn't right. I have to assess whether the law is proportionate. Then I have to say no right now. For example, because we still have a lot of questions about the need to collect bulk data. I have to judge whether this law is clear, and I have to say no at the moment. If only because we give our secret services a free pass to work on technologies that we can hardly imagine today, but which will still intervene deeply in people's lives. But there is also another question about what this law actually has to do with reality, whether it really contributes to the protection of our citizens. This law deals with the rules we lay down for our secret services for dealing with our citizens. But no matter how critical I am about this, it does not, of course, contain the real danger. That comes from Russia, China, Iran, Israel or the United States, where the new President Donald Trump will be very little interested in what law we approve here in this Parliament. In the world of secret services there are no laws and regulations, but power and counterpower. This applies to our old enemies, but unfortunately also to our supposed friends. In April 2014, we had a debate about espionage on our citizens, also by friendly countries. Since then, the government has been deafeningly silent. Today we are talking about a law, but we must also talk about a new reality, about how our secret services, but above all those of other, friendly countries, treat our citizens decently. I am very interested in the response of these ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. Security and privacy, two fundamental fundamental rights that every citizen needs to be able to live freely. Two fundamental fundamental rights which, unfortunately, also often bite each other, as well as the present Intelligence and Security Services Act. The government wants to give the General Intelligence and Security Service and the Military Intelligence and Security Service the powers to rake and store large amounts of data through a towing network. For our safety, of course, but what does that do with our privacy? Is the law careful enough? Do we even see all the consequences of a dragnet? What data of Dutch citizens will end up with security services from other countries via our own AIVD and STIVD? Will Donald Trump's NSA be able to read with our whatsapples later? Those are all questions that many people live with. Questions to which I cannot yet answer the electorate, even after the very comprehensive answer given by the cabinet. Leave it at the forefront: GroenLinks wants a safe Netherlands that is protected from terrorists 24 hours a day seven days a week as much as possible. The Netherlands has so far been able to avoid the series of bloody attacks in Europe, partly thanks to the work of our security services. They risk their own safety for the safety of all of us. A sacrifice that we probably don't appreciate enough, because the work of the services is hidden behind closed doors. At the same time, we cannot defend our rule of law by abolishing it, because we need that rule of law more than ever. There is also an inherent risk of mass storage of data on citizens. Where one government can be expected to handle these sensitive data in a decent and proportionate manner, a completely different regime can be in power the next day. Safety does not necessarily benefit from mass surveillance. Our security services must have sufficient resources, stability and capable people. This will help us to be safe. This cabinet has made a mess of it over the past period by always fluctuating in the money spent on the services. Fortunately, the rest now seems to have been somewhat restored. The peace and the means for the AIVD and the STIVD to do their job is what we have to offer from the political point of view. One of the reasons for a new law is that the Minister wants to make the powers of the departments as independent as possible. And there is something to be said for, of course, the technology of 2002, the year of the current law, is not comparable to today's technology. At the same time, we must guard against unintended effects. The emergence of the Internet or things increases the possibilities of tracking people via espionage on devices. The story that the law creates the possibility to spy through chips in the human body is, of course, nonsense, but it seems to GroenLinks or advisable to give a clearer definition of which equipment the services may hack. The law now states that this can be done on all automated works, but that's a blank check. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the principle of legal certainty requires further colouring. People have the right to know which devices may be hacked by the security services. If we regulate this interpretation of General Measure of Governance, the definition can then easily change over time. In his written reply, the Minister stated that he did not see any reason to do so. I would like to hear a more comprehensive response from the Minister. Why doesn't he see a reason for that? Then there is the most important change that the law brings: the power of towing nets. During his answer in the written round of questions, the Minister replied that GroenLinks uses the term "dragnet power." The minister prefers to use his own term: research assignment-oriented interception. That's a term that hangs on the edge of truth. It is precisely unfocused interception that is at stake. It's about interception of communication between people without looking at who it's about. Security services have to draw up an investigative order before they are allowed to throw out a towing net. A request for a note to the Minister asking whether they can tap all communication at busy stations in the Netherlands for a year: to call that targeted interception, is flirting with deception. What a research question for a towing net has to meet, is not clear from the law, and is therefore not testable. Is it true that such a research question can actually cover everything? If that is not the case, can the Minister give us some examples of research questions that could not be? Is he then prepared to include this restriction in the text of the law? Data retrieved may be stored for no less than three years. The Council of State advised us to make that a year. That would be better for the relationship with the privacy of citizens. The cabinet doesn't want to do that. I have therefore tabled an amendment to settle that. On the question of who is to pay for the expensive storage of all these data, the Minister gives a rather vague answer that is more or less: we will see that again. Any financial coverage for this is lacking. A study by the United States' Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board in 2014 shows that bulk interception in the United States has made a concrete difference in combating terrorism in no less than zero cases. Anyone who sells that factual analysis against the potentially very serious breach of privacy that makes a towing net power can only conclude that we should not want to do so. GroenLinks is therefore opposed to creating a dragnet power, not because we categorically always place privacy above security, but because the effectiveness of bulk interception has simply not been proven. It provides false security and bogus privacy. I have therefore tabled an amendment, which was co-signed by Mr Van Raak, to delete the power of towing net. I can imagine that the Minister will not be overwhelmed by enthusiasm for this amendment, but it is up to the Chamber to make a clear choice through the vote on this amendment whether it is for or against towing power. Let me turn to the issue of unread data abroad. The data collected by the AIVD and the STIVD may then be transmitted unread to foreign security services. Unread! So we don't know what we're sending. The law thus allows us, for example, to send data on Dutch people with an Eritrean background to Eritrea's security service. Of course, the Minister says we're not going to do that. Services will only transmit unread data in exceptional situations, for example if there is an imminent attack. The question then is: why can't these data be read just as quickly before they are forwarded? Does the cabinet want the services to forward so much unread data that it cannot look at what is in it? And, if so, why on earth? If that is not the case, why should there be a possibility in the law? GroenLinks believes that the infringement involved, not only on privacy but possibly even on our national interests, does not outweigh the ill-disputed benefits. I therefore have the amendment to item No. 46 to ensure that it is no longer possible to transmit unread data to foreign security services. In addition, I have the amendment to item No. 22, which makes this impossible for security services of countries with which our services do not cooperate, in case the amendment in part No. 46 the Court has not received sufficient support. We should not end up in the situation where our security services become relay doors for, for example, the US NSA or the Russian FSB. We must certainly not end up in the situation where our security services are passing on to the security services in Eritrea. From the Minister's reply, I would point out that the government also considers it undesirable that this should happen. I hope for a positive response to these amendments. The law paves the way for its own DNA database for the services. The cabinet states that it responds to the criticism of the Supervisory Committee of the Intelligence and Security Services. The criticism of the CTIVD was that the storage of DNA material by the AIVD was unlawful. In doing so, of course, the CTIVD did not say that it would be in favour of making it lawful in this new law. It is a political choice to give the security services their own DNA database. GroenLinks thinks that choice goes too far. In our view, the government has not sufficiently argued why this is necessary. At present, the services also have to do without their own DNA database and use the expertise and services of the Dutch Forensic Institute and certified laboratories. Why wouldn't that be enough? GroenLinks does not consider the own DNA database for the security services to be demonstrably necessary. The database would lead to an unjustified breach of citizens' privacy. I have therefore tabled an amendment to delete it, namely the Amendment No 2. 44. I'm here to talk about encryption. The law introduces a duty for companies and experts to cooperate in the decryption of encryption. That is in itself something you can question. Do you have to cross the principled border to force people to become co-responsible for the actions of security services? That's not even the most important question we need to answer. We absolutely must avoid putting pressure on manufacturers and developers to build vulnerabilities in favour of security services. Vulnerabilities can be used not only by security services but also by malicious hackers. GroenLinks therefore wants the legislative text to be crystal clear. I have the amendment to item No. 25 submitted to clarify this. As the Minister stated in his written reply that it is not the government's intention to make this possible, I assume that that amendment can count on a positive opinion. I'll come to the review. Especially when the AIVD and STUDY are allowed to use a coarse instrument such as towing power, a rigorous and independent control of the use of such powers is crucial. GroenLinks is therefore pleased that the Review Committee on Bet Powers is being set up. It is a good thing to check in advance whether the use of the power is lawful and that the Minister must comply in his opinion. We do wonder why the government has not chosen to have these tests carried out by a special court. When it comes to taps with lawyers, the court in The Hague is also called in. I would like to hear from the Minister what the objections would be to such a model. GroenLinks is less enthusiastic about the ex post review. We would like the CTIVD to be able to make a binding assessment of the legality of the implementation of powers. If the CTIVD finds that, for example, dragnet data or DNA profiles are stored for too long, it must be able to stop the power immediately. This is what the CTIVD itself is asking for in its response to this law. It argues that the law does not strengthen the CTIVD sufficiently. It is also referring to the non-binding nature of the committee's opinion. The Minister argues against this by stating that the opinion of the CTIVD is also not binding under the current law. That's right, but the current law doesn't have any power of towing. More powers with a greater breach of the privacy of Dutch people require that they be monitored more closely. That is why I have also tabled an amendment on this point, namely the Amendment No 2. 43. GroenLinks wants the CTIVD, when it finds an unlawful act, to be able to order the cessation of the exercise of a power until it has been reported to the Chamber. As a result, the Chamber can control the Minister's handling of the CTIVD's judgment. If the Minister ignores this judgment, the Chamber may summon the Minister to reconsider that decision. This is how we organise democratic control of the services. I hope that the Minister will appreciate the importance of this and look favourably at the amendment. GroenLinks is pleased that the minister seems to have listened carefully to the Chamber when it comes to eavesdropping the communication between lawyers and their clients. That's what the judge has to judge now. However, the protection of the sources of journalists, which should be at the same level as regards GroenLinks, is not complete. There must be as many safeguards as possible to prevent a malicious government from eavesdropping communication between journalists and sources through intelligence services. That would affect the basis of our rule of law. I therefore hope that the Minister will respond positively to the amendment on this subject. The new Act on Intelligence and Security Services, if adopted, will mark a new era in the work of the security services. GroenLinks is not against modernising the law. We understand our country's interest in security services that operate effectively, but this needs to be done safely, carefully and with respect for people's privacy. There must also be good democratic control. The legislative proposal as it stands cannot therefore count on the support of GroenLinks. That is why I have put forward many proposals to make the law safer and more careful. GroenLinks can only agree to this law if people's protection and privacy are significantly improved. We hear people say, "Well, as long as you have nothing to hide, you don't have to fear anything." That's a big misconception. We all have something to hide: our medical information, our deepest fears and desires, the question of who we hate, and sometimes who we love. Who always has the curtains open in his house? Who goes to the bathroom without locking the door? Who doesn't have a password on his computer or phone? If we have nothing to hide, why doesn't everyone in the house have a 24-hour camera with a live feed to Facebook? Everyone has something to hide. That makes us human and gives us personality. This makes privacy as fundamental as security. Our society cannot live without one or the other. That is why I hope that we will make the legislative proposal before us better and more careful, that we will not allow privacy and security to bite each other, but that we will put together a strong legislative proposal that will properly define the frameworks for the security services for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. I start by saying once more that we are living in a digital revolution. Big developments in data change our lives in many ways. And revolutionary times are always turbulent times. We see and feel that the world is changing around us and we don't yet know where it's going to end. Revolutionary times give opportunities for major improvements, but also give threats to the security and prosperity of the Netherlands. These are known and unprecedented threats. The threats we know are already not wrong. Think of terrorism, manipulating our elections, stealing our expensive innovations, shutting down the economy, opening locks and driving, and so on. Those are all digital threats. The task of our intelligence and security services is to identify those known and unprecedented threats and thus protect us. And so we cannot be naive and must allow our services to continue their work in this data revolution. For our safety, we need to bring the services back to time so that they can handle these revolutionary exciting times in which we live now when it comes to our security. Moreover, the law lays down, in particular, current practice in strict and verifiable rules. Since 2002, the year of that old law, a great deal has changed in the way the services operate. Those changes have now been codified. That's good. But to leave it at that, or even to restrict current practice, as some parties seem to want, is at best naive and only hypocritical and dangerous. The image that you would only be well-equipped to digital threats by old means, denies reality. That only searching for the person would be more effective than using the technique to see at all what is going on is a misconception. That is putting your head in the sand and then screaming murder and fire again at the next terrorist debate about a minister who has his or her affairs not in order, or because information has not been shared. You can't run a country like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u23	Ms Oosenbrug, member of the PvdA Group, is an ICT specialist. She has stated in the newspaper that she is against this bill. Her arguments are about the same as mine. I found that striking and I wondered if there are any other people in the PvdA group who know ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u24	I have only heard Mr Van Raak ask whether there are people in the PvdA group who understand ICT. It is clear that Mrs Oosenbrug of ICT has the most understanding. I have also talked to her a great deal and many times about what she thinks is important and what she thinks is dangerous. I've been working on that, by the way, in the past year. After all, we have been talking about this for a long time, and this legislative proposal has been moving in the right direction for a very long time. As a result, there is now a bill in balance. But even now, further on in my contribution, I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Recourt speaks in a friendly tone. But what he's saying is pretty hard. I don't know exactly what words he was using anymore. I believe he said: if people criticize this bill, they are hypocritical. The Secretary of Defense is nodding now, yes, I see. Oh, now she's shaking no again. "Hypocrite" is quite a... does Mr Recourt find Mrs Oosenbrug hypocritical too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'm not gonna judge my colleague here. It has its own opinion and its own consideration. She shares that with the group. We then reach a verdict as a group. I would like to express the opinion of the majority of the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'd like to continue. I used the word "hypocrite." It is hypocritical to say, in the debate on terrorism, that this cabinet is putting its head in the sand and does not know anything about it. We hear this all the time in one debate on terrorism after another. Next, if the cabinet wants to give the services the powers to analyse data, it is said that we are not participating. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u29	Does Mr Recourt think that a Member of Parliament may ask whether a law is effective? Does he consider, for example, that a Member of the House of Representatives may ask whether the mass retrieving of information about civilians who are fundamentally innocent is effective or whether, as the US Department of Justice's investigation has shown, targeted detection of potential terrorists is not more effective? Does Mr Recourt think that a Member of Parliament is entitled to ask such questions? Or is a MP hypocritical because it does its job?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u30	A Member of Parliament may ask all questions, a Member of Parliament may have all opinions, he may find this law terrible or terribly good, all of which is a matter of the political group's own consideration or consideration. Another Member of Parliament may then say: but it is rather silly that you take a position that is contrary to that in other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u31	In battle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u32	In battle. I call it hypocritical if on the one hand you blame the government for everything if anything goes wrong, threatens to go wrong, or seems to go wrong, while, when the cabinet comes to the other side with a plan of instruments, you call it towed nets that are not working and are not effective. It is not a dragnet in the sense that there is an unfocused collection, but I will come to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u34	Could it not be that solutions should be better sought in a different direction, for example in sufficient expertise, in sufficient people within the services? Wouldn't it make much more sense to use it, then they're doing targeted research into people we suspect? On what facts does Mr Recourt base his argument that the inclusion of a towing net power by definition leads to greater safety? What evidence does he have for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u35	It is not a towing power; I will come back to that later. Yeah, you just need the old tasks the services have been doing for years. If you analyze data, there will be clues, which you need to see if they're right. You have to make them harder, make them better. If you're gonna get those clues without analyzing your data, you're gonna have to go through with it. It is a continuous mockery, also just put forward by GroenLinks, by saying: you can only do it with those old powers, by data analysis the Netherlands only becomes more unsafe. Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u36	I didn't say this at all. In fact, GroenLinks has just said that we understand the need for a new law on intelligence and security services. What we have problems with is the addition of powers which have not been demonstrated in any way to help and increase security. I have just asked Mr Recourt if he can come up with factual information that proves that this will help. I note that I have not had an answer to that. Apparently, he owes me that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u37	I'll give you a practical explanation of why data analysis is useful. I have to make that up myself, because the service doesn't share that with us. That's a good thing. There have been attacks in Paris and in Brussels. Suppose you find pieces of information in people's homes, then you can do it the old-fashioned way and see who you're seeing and who he's calling. But you can also test that to who calls who in which network, so data analysis. Then you're gonna find people you don't know you're gonna find. That makes the Netherlands really safer. Then you have to continue looking for those people and then you see: in this network Mohammed calls Pietje and Jantje with Klaasje. You'll have to look at that, but then you'll have to throw away what you don't need right away. You can't just say forget it, we don't want to know it, we just stick to the old-fashioned, well-known personal method.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u38	A new point, Mr Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u39	Yes. Mr Recourt says this now, but in America they have a lot of experience working in this way or in a similar way, with the mass retrieving of bulk. An investigation has also been carried out. On 21 May 2015, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice said that FBI agents cannot indicate that this way of working prevented attacks. In America there has been a very serious discussion and still going on whether this or a similar way of working is effective. I find it quite remarkable that even in America this debate can be held, but if I want to have that debate here in the House of Representatives, Mr Recourt will not go beyond suspicions and the loss of a member of his group who knows the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u40	I find this insinuation extremely annoying. Let's not play the man. Let's play the content. In America, we know that via Snowden... it was a different story. There was indeed unfocused a lot of information being raked in and then looked at if one could do something with it. That law isn't for this. We bring in metadata, but always targeted. It has to fit in with the investigation, you have to explain it and there's control of it. So it's like comparing apples to pears. I totally agree that the moment you do it in the way we have seen in the United States, it has no known effect. Moreover, I have always been very opposed to services that say: we have prevented this attack. This way you can't knock on the chest as a service unless you really pull the terrorist out of the door, otherwise you never know exactly what the reason is that an attack didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr Recourt is right that in America much more and in a different way bulk was brought in, including bulk from Dutch citizens. When it comes to bulking information and releasing models and algorithms and identifying patterns in it, it is more successful if you pull in as much data as possible. You can want to go this way and you can think that this is effective, but then you can see that in the United States, where they have done and still do this on a much larger scale, they say that this is not effective. Then why should it be effective if you apply the same principle on a smaller scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u42	Because we don't apply the same principle. These are both data analyses, but in the United States, as far as I can see, because I have only been able to look at them from a distance. It was really about unfocused data collection and filling huge databases. This law doesn't see that. According to this law you have to say directed and motivated: we want to look at this, because we suspect that IS members from anywhere in Syria or Iraq have contacts with a sleeping cell in the Netherlands, and we want to analyse that data. That's a whole different story than opening your pool and filling it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u43	I am very curious to see whether the Ministers agree that this law only allows targeted retrieval of information. I do not think so, because then the ministers would not have to submit this law in this way. It is precisely because of this that the ministers give a nice different definition of what we are doing about getting unfocused information from people who have nothing to do with it. If only secret services were to work better together to exchange data from potential terrorists. We have so far seen in all the debates after terrible attacks that terrorists were known. They were known to secret services somewhere in Europe. They were part of a network, but each time the problem was that the information had not been sufficiently exchanged, that networks had not been rolled up enough and that people could travel freely. That has nothing to do with getting information this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u44	That has everything to do with this. After all, a number of people were known and a number of other people came into the picture after analysing data. That is exactly what this law does and makes possible and why it is so necessary, with all the considerations you have to make about privacy violations. I'll get to that. However, denying the need for data analysis, because that's what it's about, I don't share, let me say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u46	I come to something about which the other parties have already begun, in a different way: do I advocate unbridled and uncontrolled powers for services? No, of course! Every power must be controlled, every power must be used as limited as possible and every law must be drawn up in such a way that, regardless of the intention of the then sitting cabinet or head of department, the control is in order. I'll talk about that today. We need to extend the powers of the services to the cable, but this extension is subject to increased control. First, enlargement itself. By opponents of the law the image of unfocusedness, the image of large towed nets and then see what you get. That image is fake. The law itself already lays down criteria to be met for interception: necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. It is logical to read here also the demand for as targeted a interception as possible, also as targeted as possible where third parties are concerned. I think it is only very important to express this demand as clearly as possible as a Chamber. Similarly, there is no ambiguity for supervisors as to the question to be examined. I am therefore preparing a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u47	It is, of course, about the degree of unfocusedness. I noticed that the Labour Party has not yet tabled any amendments, although I cannot imagine that the Labour Party is happy with the way in which this law allows for the unfocused collection and storage of data for a very long time. Why does Mr Recourt say 'I am going to table a motion on the central issue of this law at the end of the debate in the second term, i.e. to limit unfocusedness', and does he not agree with any of the amendments tabled by the various groups or does he not himself table an amendment to limit this unfocusedness? This is indeed the central point of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u48	Because in the three concepts already contained in the law, there is a need for necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. Only, I, too, have taken note of the documents of the CTIVD and the College of Human Rights. They say, "Make that explicit." We should not include double standards in laws, but I thought that if we now include in a motion that the Chamber says that we should also read 'as focused as possible' on those three concepts, then we have that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u49	With all due respect to Mr Recourt's nuances, isn't that a weak way to guarantee something that is crucial in this discussion? D66 has an amendment that actually adds a fourth criterion to the other three, namely selectivity, orientation. Wise supervisors and experienced experts are all in favour of this. I would like to deal with this in an amendment, so that what is still possible in the law, namely broad and unfocused collection, does not exclude a towing network. Is Mr Recourt prepared, in the light of what he has just said and the motion he may wish to table, to consider supporting this amendment? Then we really do something that is legally hard and we do not opt for a weaker form of parliamentary regulation through a motion, which has much less power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u50	Of course, I want to think about that, but I don't want to suggest that I haven't thought about it yet. I have thought: why, for example, is the concept of proportionality not "as focused as possible"? In fact, that means "proportional," namely not doing more than necessary, targeted. I think it's crazy to double the law. However, when relevant advisors say "hoho, it's not quite clear to us yet," we have to say very clearly how it should be read. That's what we have the concept of "motion" for. That motion doesn't ask the cabinet for anything. It is only intended to say: we, as Chamber, speak out, for as far as there is uncertainty, that these three concepts are 'as focused as possible'. This also applies to third parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u51	That doesn't make it any clearer. Apparently, Mr Recourt also feels some discomfort in the way things stand in the law. That is why he needs to say as a Chamber that it should be as targeted as possible. Then why shouldn't we include that in the law itself? Apparently, Mr Recourt also feels that there is indeed unfocusedness. He denies it very stubbornly, but he does need to explain it in more detail in a motion. So why should we not explicitly state in the law that the unfocused collection of information is not the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'm repeating myself. Because you were going to double in the law. I have a second argument that you also see on many other amendments that have been tabled. Because you could lay down everything in the law. There is a danger that the services will overthrow the cabinet. We could have it laid down in the law that we shouldn't. That's some bullshit. It's obvious that's not allowed. That goes for a lot of things, of course. You can make ten thousand amendments, but it must make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u53	With this reasoning, I wonder why we would still have a law on intelligence and security services at all. The principle of the law is that you build guarantees, that you say how powers can be applied and that you introduce safeguards for citizens. This law can also be used to eavesdropping people against whom there is no suspicion. Someone with a legal status like Mr Recourt should be concerned about that. When Mr Recourt says he is against a towing net, I would like to hear him say that he also thinks that information should not be collected from people against whom there is no suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u54	This law does not at all allow people who are not suspected to be bugged. I'll give you a very brief summary of the law. As a funnel, he gives the power to go more and more to the person, to the concrete person. The beginning of the funnel is more open, but with that you do not have the content of the conversation that someone leads through, for example, WhatsApp. The whole idea that of all Dutch people we are uncontrolled and that we are allowed to do so is simply not right. That is why I am constantly trying to make it clear that there is precisely the fine balance in this law between powers and on the one hand, and on the other hand, to work as closely as possible and to monitor them. Finally, I would like to say that in any legal process, apart from the law, the treatment of the law is extremely relevant. People who later work with that law look back to see what the Chamber meant. That is why today's debate, as well as that in the First Chamber, is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr Verhoeven, you have just been, but you have found something very new in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u56	I think Mr Recourt himself believes what he says, but it is absolutely possible in this law in several ways that data from innocent citizens is taken over by the government. That can also happen because third parties hack them. That's not covered in this law. Also by means of research-oriented interception, it is absolutely possible that data from innocent citizens is tapped. We do not need to discuss this now, but Mr Recourt should not deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u57	As Mr Verhoeven says, he is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr Recourt just said that he considered the judgements of the experts, for example the CTIVD supervisor, important, but that he did not want to include unnecessary criteria in the law, because proportionality already implies focus. That's what Mr Recourt just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u59	Yes, and subsidiarity and necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u60	The CTIVD itself released a piece a few days ago in which it says that precisely the fourth criterion that I propose is not offset by the necessary proportionality and subsidiarity. The CTIVD literally says that an additional criterion is needed to increase focus. Would Mr Recourt be willing to respond to that? He actually said the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u61	No, I didn't say the opposite. I have just referred to the CTIVD, which says: would you like to draw more attention to focus, because we do not think that is sufficiently clear. I even have the piece right here in front of me. I just do not agree with the CTIVD that this should be an additional standard in the law, because it is already covered in the words 'needs', 'property' and'subsidiarity'. Only to the extent that an explanation is needed, an explanation, I would like to make it in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u62	I think we're repeating ourselves now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u63	I have one final point to make on this part. I'll really try to limit myself, but this is important. So the PvdA Group says: the supervisor is right when he says that attention should be paid to a more targeted way of collecting. However, in the last sentence of the first paragraph, the supervisor states: "The requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity do not address this. It is therefore essential that the fourth criterion be incorporated into the law." So the PvdA Group says: I agree entirely with the supervisor, except as far as his conclusion is concerned that you really need to do something legal, and so I'm taking it through a motion. Surely that is a weaker way of protecting innocent citizens and guaranteeing 'no dragnet'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u64	This is a repeat, isn't it? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yes. I'll be very brief. The CTIVD makes it a little broader: it is also about the protection of third parties. I took the warning seriously. The College of Human Rights has also pointed this out. I think that the way in which I intend to resolve it, namely a motion in which the Chamber states that it should be read in this way, is the best way to address it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u66	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u67	Retrieving large amounts of unfocused data would indeed be inefficient. But apart from efficiency, it shouldn't be allowed either. Can the Minister confirm this and outline how interception will work in practice, how it will be targeted and how it will be removed immediately after interception? These are all conditions that the Labour Party lays down. The law creates a kind of funnel: new consent is needed for any action that comes closer to the person. The first stage concerns metadata. The suggestion seems to be that metadata is harmless in terms of privacy violations. However, that is a misconception. There's already a lot to read from metadata. Can the Minister, in the context of that first metadata phase, clearly explain how the privacy of Dutch and third parties is secured here too? Can the Minister include the five points mentioned by the CTIVD in this context on page 3 of her most recent position? This question also belongs to Mr Verhoeven, who also referred to it. I'm here to share data with abroad. It is obvious that this is necessary. This concerns in particular information about terrorists, but it may also concern the sharing of information with Germany, our direct partner in the mission to Mali. I heard the minister on the radio this morning. How to shape this? The weighting note system is very important in this respect: criteria for the extent and nature of the exchange are established by country. The Netherlands is, to my knowledge, unique in this careful way of weighing. It is also a good thing that permission should be given by the minister and no longer by the head of the service, especially when it comes to the sharing of personal information. I do have a question about sharing bulk data. This sometimes happens including content, including content. Can the Minister explain how and when this is going to happen and what are the guarantees? Again, in the case of terrorism or a mission, I can imagine this, but less in other areas. I'll be on the retention period. I have experienced this as a dilemma, because there is criticism of the three-year retention period. Here, too, I started looking for a solution in the law, but I have not been able to find it. For STIVD, in the case of preparation of a mission abroad, the period of one year is clearly too short. For their immediate security, our military must have the best possible information. I also find it undesirable to make a distinction in regulation between the STIVD and AIVD services. There is intensive cooperation in shared teams. The use of different standards for the different services will in practice lead to working with the lowest standard. Moreover, a merger is not excluded in the future either. So I would like to maintain one set of standards for both services. So I have gone looking for another way to ensure that information is kept for no longer than strictly necessary. I found it in a request for investigation by CTIVD supervisor within two years, in anticipation of the evaluation. The supervisor can then investigate whether indeed unnecessary data is not stored. So after the interception you read the data and indicate what you don't need, after which those data will actually be deleted. In doing so, the CTIVD can examine whether there has indeed been as targeted as possible. Then there is control, not only in the area of legislation, but also in practice: does the law do what it aims to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u68	Here too, we look for what you can and what you can't do. I first hear Mr Recourt say with some certainty that these three years are needed, especially for the STUDY. Then he wants an investigation to see if it's necessary. That's kind of crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u69	I thank Mrs Schouten for that question. At least that's not what I was trying to say. I've been trying to say, I heard Mr Van Raak say that, too, you have to constantly throw away what you don't need. It's a continuous process. It's said that this is happening. I'd like to have that examined, too. If a majority of the Chamber agrees, I would therefore ask the CTIVD to look at: is data that was initially collected indeed discarded by the STUDY and by the AIVD if it is no longer needed? Then it's fair to keep the data for up to three years, because then you obviously need it. In any case, you have given that retention period a meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u70	Isn't it the role we give to the CTIVD to make this kind of assessment? The CTIVD itself says: pay attention. The legislator doesn't say it to himself. He says to us: be careful not to keep too much of that kind of unnecessary data. In that case, the legislator must specify the framework within which the CTIVD will work. So I am not entirely convinced of Mr Recourt's argument as to why the deadline should be three years, given that he is at the same time questioning whether it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have no doubt that at some dates, three years are really necessary. This applies to the STIVD for missions, but for the AIVD it can also apply, for example in the case of sleeper cells, to dormant cells. They come in the Netherlands and stay under the radar for a while, and then come up. In these cases, I am convinced that more than a year is needed. It's just the exception. What you've collected outside that exception must have been thrown away before that. I've been looking for a norm in the law. I couldn't find it for the reasons I just mentioned. So what's a solution? Have the CTIVD look at whether that method, where you only keep for three years what is strictly necessary and have thrown away all the ballast, is actually being implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u72	Then the follow-up question is: what if it isn't? I know it's a kind of like-dan question, but Mr Recourt himself is now suggesting that there is a link. If, in two years' time, it turns out that these data are still being stored, we can still have a discussion. Should the retention period of Mr Recourt be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u73	At first I would say: we do what we always do with the CTIVD. The CTIVD would then make recommendations, which are taken over 99 out of 100 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u74	Several organisations, such as the CTIVD, the Council of State and the Human Rights College, have said: go for one year. I understand that Mr Recourt thinks that this should actually be the norm, but that, if necessary, you may need more time. Mr Recourt says that he has thought about an amendment. I did not think specifically in this direction, because I tabled an amendment to go straight to one year. But would it be an idea for Mr Recourt to table an amendment which states that the standard will be one year and only if it is strictly exceptional whether it should be three years, or at least more than one year? Again, that's not what I want. I have another amendment, but I think I will go along with Mr Recourt. Wouldn't this be an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u75	It's definitely an idea, and I've been thinking about it, too. A year and a half would also be an option. You can put the standard somewhere halfway and then ask the judge to check it out. I think D66 has tabled such an amendment. However, you're left with the dilemma that this is an unworkable situation especially for the STUDY. You might think about it for the AIVD, but I don't want to set a double standard. So I have come to the solution of an even more stringent test. We are not saying that data should be gone after a year or a year and a half, but even within a year if it is no longer relevant. Data must be destroyed immediately when you find that you no longer need it, for example after two, three, six or eight months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u76	I may be mistaken, but this seems to me to be a good thing in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u77	I don't see that; let me put it this way. I'm going into decryption now. Integrity of the Internet is paramount; we have talked about this before. Of course, an individual mobile phone from a known terrorist allows you to see if you can access the content and apply decryption to it, but not with a carpet that fits all mobile phones. You can't make everyone's cell phone more unsafe. Open, free, honest and secure internet is of great importance to the Labour Party. Nor have I read that it is the desire of the services to torment the standards, I think it is about targeted decryption, but I would like to hear that. I'm here to supervise. It's been a search for the best solution for the past year. For the Labour Party it was clear that you must have prior consent from an independent institute. But who's gonna do that? Should the current supervisor, the CTIVD, do that? I find that unfortunate, because then you will be a supervisor, a consultant and also a judge. We have one Council of State, and I think that is more than enough. I had other thoughts about it myself, but it didn't work out. In any case, let us not create a second Council of State. Do you need to invest it in the court of The Hague, as we have put other powers very specifically in one court? I find that vulnerable, too, because courts rotate with judges. If you put it with the judge commissioner, I'll think about the orbital speed. Then it is each time another and with that you have too little specific information and the knowledge is too thin. The solution to lay it with specialized ex-courts and a tech guy is good to me. They are independent, they are, as it were, judges and they have more knowledge of cases. They do it over a longer period of time and thus build up expertise. The question is then whether they have and receive sufficient information to enable them to test. I think so: they have as much information as the Minister. In addition, they can ask for more information if they consider it insufficient. I do have a question about how this TIB can call in extra expertise. D66 also raised this issue. Professor Van Eijk has argued for this. Is the TIB free to engage external expertise? Is there a budget for that? I think it would be good if the TIB could relate to new techniques and technical and other questions with externals to inform themselves. How do the legality judgments of both supervisors relate? Of course, the TIB is at individual level and the CTIVD is much more at system level, but that system level is only known by looking at individual matters. She also occasionally has an opinion of legality on individual matters. That can bite. How will that work in the future? The CTIVD has made its own proposal. One of Mr Verhoeven's amendments deals with it. I'd like to be able to judge that properly. Does Mr Verhoeven have a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u78	Don't invite him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u79	Then I'll finish. This debate is the conclusion of a very long road. Our security requires this law and our privacy requires proper control of the powers of the law. The law guarantees both interests on balance. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u80	I have listened to the speech of the Labour Party. Mr Recourt raised a number of points which also raised questions or points of improvement for D66. In this debate, the Labour Party only tends to ask for research and to ask questions, but does not offer any clear legal hardness. We have already talked about this. We have talked about this other way of regulating it, namely through strict supervision. Isn't monitoring a way of creating a very open and comprehensive law with a lot of opportunities for services and then saying that it's all gonna be okay with tight supervision? Isn't that a real danger? Do we not rely too much on supervision and do we not settle too little simply clearly in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u81	That's the balance I was talking about. The moment you want to make a law that is technologically neutral, you have to work with some open standards. There's almost no other way. We are indeed extending the powers, but that can only be done if we increase the supervisory elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u82	The cabinet writes that hacking through third parties will normally never happen through an innocent citizen and that we will not do the tapping of an entire neighborhood. That is what the Minister writes in response to questions from MPs. These Members of Parliament then table amendments, which cover what the cabinet says, in order to obtain more certainty. However, the Labour Party does not give home afterwards. She brings in a number of things, which makes sure she's on the same line as D66. How will the PvdA ensure that these things are enforced in the future in a clear and hard way? That's better than doing that with all kinds of loose motions, investigations and questions. Because then we won't get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u83	I think that's a denial of what we've been doing here, in my case, for over six years. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has been doing this for six years and the Chamber has been doing it for a long time. Because you have a law. For the functioning of that law, many more things are important, for example what we agree on about how we interpret things. In a law not everything can be arranged to the comma. You're gonna need execution and motions for that. Motions aren't redundant. Very often they are unnecessary, then it is just scoring, but some motions really matter. I think it is a misconception that we need to lay down everything in the law in order to have a properly functioning law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u84	But this is about something. It's a law with pretty far-reaching powers. Wouldn't you just want to make sure it's safe? I can hear Mr Recourt say that he has concerns about this and concerns about that, but I do not hear him come forward with proposals to ensure safety. I myself tabled an amendment on the DNA database. This law also provides for security services to have their own DNA database. TNO says that it is not necessary at all. I would like to know from Mr Recourt how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u85	First of all, we will come up with guarantees, not just in this debate. This has been going on for a while. In the letter of amendment, for example, a number of proposals made by the PvdA were not simply taken up by the PvdA. And rightly so. Those tightenings have really taken place in the past year. We've discussed the DNA bank before. If I recall correctly, the supervisor CTIVD established at a check that there were a number of DNA traces for which nothing was arranged. There was then an internal settlement. However, it is a very limited number of DNA traces. Now I really have to dig into my memory, because I think the debate was held one or two years ago. If agents from the AIVD get somewhere and think it might be something, they'll secure the tracks to possibly have them examined later. That's what it's about. I think that's a very neat arrangement. It is something that has grown in practice and that gives a neat embedding in rules, so that it is clear how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u86	This is very creative dealing with the determination of the CTIVD. He found an illegality, because it's not in the law. It is then proposed to regulate it in the law. That's actually a little laundered. We have DNA banks. So the security services don't need their own DNA bank. That's the point I made. I note, however, that the Labour Party is fine with it. I would like to say the following about safeguards. It's about supervision, but it's also about towing power. Yeah, unfortunately, I keep calling it a dragnet power because that's what it is: you collect wide and then pick out what you need. Surely you can't say with dry eyes that the guarantees for people who aren't suspects at all are well arranged? Mr Recourt can't be serious about that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u87	The comment concerns two parts. The first is DNA. I think it went exactly as it was meant to. There has been an exception, a working method has been established, and the CTIVD notes that and says that this should be regulated; that legislation should be drawn up for this purpose. And that's what happened to this law. It seems to me exactly the function of the CTIVD. It was followed up neatly by the cabinet. I really don't see the problem. The second point is that the safeguards would be insufficient. This brings us to the heart of the debate that we are having in the last half hour. I think the balance is in the current law. On parts I have questions and concerns, but in the basis the weighing between the privacy and the security of the Netherlands, the Dutch and the military abroad is well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. This is a law with a long history. Of course, we've had the old Wiv. We've had the motion requesting an evaluation of the Wiv. We've had the Dessens Committee. And today we are present at the birth of this current Wiv. It is clear that the fight against terror is a bitter necessity. We have, of course, seen the need for this in many places in recent years: Bataclan, Nice and recently Jerusalem. Twelve and a half years ago I stood on the Linnaeusstraat near the remains of Theo van Gogh. That is an event that in a sense has changed my life, because that was the reason or, rather, the reason to end up here. The terror, or rather the jihad, which is what this is all about, is a threat to all of us, because it is a threat to our way of life. Security services play a crucial role in the fight against this. They're our second line of defense. The first line of defence is the boundaries, because that's where you can stop people with the wrong ideas. We don't really have those boundaries anymore and that's why we're just dependent on the security services for our naked survival, whether we like it or not. Privacy plays an important role, but when I stood in front of Theo van Gogh's remains twelve and a half years ago, Van Gogh also had no privacy. His most intimate moment, namely his death, he had to experience in public on the Linnaeusstraat. That is also a form of violation of privacy. It is logical that we should support the services wherever possible and express our appreciation for them, because they play a crucial role. To begin with, our gratitude goes towards the AIVD and towards the STIVD, a service that remains unnamed but also does many commendable things, even though it was just off the coast of Somalia where they are listening. Widening the possibilities of service techniques is certainly reasonable, simply because the techniques change at an incredible rate. The word is, of course, "undirected." The services do a lot of unfocused business, for example off the coast of Somalia. It is only logical that we should look at the technological expansion of what the services can do. However, it is more than right that we should look very critically at this law. There is a fear, which I share to a large extent, that this law has far-reaching consequences. We've had three hearings on this law. Hearings always have a bit of the same optical design: we are sitting on one side as MPs and on the other side are sitting on the other side than deskologists or representatives of all kinds of interest groups. We listen to that or we pretend, draw our own plan and then say "thank you." We've had one hearing with the CTIVD. We are, of course, in a completely different relationship with the CTIVD, because it is not about lobbyists or stakeholders or desk experts. The CITVD are our eyes and ears. As spokesmen for the secret services, we can be very interesting, but in the end we hardly know what these services are doing. We only have a few ways to control them. We do this by way of a detour, via the CTIVD, which does so on our behalf, and through the CIVD. We call this committee, in popular terms, 'that was never allowed by President Verbeet's secret committee. But, yes, we never hear of that. Sometimes I sit down with my group leader and he suddenly says: Martin, I have to leave now because I have an appointment that I don't have; I don't know what it's about either. We also have a bit of control through the Court of Auditors. In the end, therefore, we do not know so much about what these services do in practice. We can only indicate the bandwidth a little, as we do today. In short, the CTIVD is crucial for us. In the hearing we based ourselves on a press release from the CTIVD. A balance should be struck between, on the one hand, powers necessary to identify threats to national security in a timely manner and, on the other hand, safeguards that provide effective protection against unauthorised infringements of our fundamental rights, including privacy. In the opinion of the CTIVD, this balance has not been achieved in the legislative proposal. That's a big deal. That's a harsh statement. Again, it's not a club of external deskundologists, but it's our eyes and ears. Something has been laid out about the law and in the end we have received a new press release from the CTIVD: "This does not alter the fact that the bill in important areas still does not provide clear verifiable standards and limitations for the use of a number of powers. Without concrete frameworks to test, effective monitoring of the activities of the AIVD and the STUDY is not possible." Those are two very harsh statements from a college of honorable ladies and gentlemen. How does the Minister feel about that? Again, it's our eyes and ears. If the CTIVD says that it can no longer exercise proper supervision, then we have a problem. I would like to hear from the Minister how we can then have some insight into the work of those services that do that good work. The hearing also mentioned that this work is becoming more and more technical. You may wonder if the people of the CTIVD are still sufficiently equipped to do so. They're looking for another IT guy, and they want to investigate algorithms. Maybe you have 10, 20 or 30 specialists in that area in the Netherlands, but you really have had it. Those aren't the first of the best people; they cost a lot of money. Does the CTIVD have those people later? Does she have enough pecunia to do all that? There are many other comments possible. It is, of course, about the cry "unfocused." I read the three centimeters of paper that the Minister sent us with a great deal of interest, months ago, but also from the weekend. Eventually, I can't figure out exactly what that unfocused actually is. How is that defined in practice? The terms "property," "subsidiarity" and "justice" have been more common today. I still think the Minister should be more clear about it. What about the scope? It is ultimately not specified in the law. The CTIVD says the same thing. That investigation should be as focused as possible. This law is actually some kind of open-ended scheme. We say that there are all kinds of technological developments and that we must also make them possible under the law, but no technology has been defined. No one could predict what today's technology would look like 20 years ago. That the Internet could be a success, perhaps a single person would have invented. But we really couldn't think of Twitter and Facebook. If we had thought of it, we would now be on our own island in the Pacific. The Minister is now saying that all technology, including technology in the future, is actually possible. Is it true that that is not delineated? Telecom providers have a duty to cooperate, but what if they do not? There are more and more telecom providers, including from abroad. What about that? There has been a lot of talk about the retention periods. I'd also like to hear about the by-catch. The task of the AIVD does not concern the economic interests of the Netherlands. I find that striking, because many countries use economics to wage war, at least to steal land. Look at Russia. China is buying up all of Africa. We are just giving billions of dollars to these countries, but China is asking for something in return and has taken all kinds of strategic positions in Africa. I don't see that in the law. It's also about technology. What technology should the Netherlands embrace in the future? That could very well be done in conjunction with Economic Affairs. What does the emergence of gangster Islam mean? Mr. Schoof once again said this in the daily newspaper for the relationship between the police and the AIVD? How does the clear dividing line that might have been there in the past at least relate to some people who thought there was? Fox-IT is a company that does a lot for the government. I think it's under the Minister's red button on cyber security. That company has now come into English hands. Fox-IT also deals with state secrets. In itself, it is not a problem that such a company should be in foreign hands, but it is now governed by British law. In a way, therefore, the management of many of our state secrets is now governed by English law. It could collide. How's that? Can our state secrets still be protected the way we want it to be? Also about the TIB, the Review Committee on Bet Powers, everything has been said. Is there enough knowledge there? It's only three people. They have to do very complicated work. How does that relate to the CTIVD? Other speakers have already mentioned this. It could collide in a number of ways. Who's gonna win there in the end? Three of the people have to be judges. I do not get very excited about this, given the lack of political diversity that exists in the judiciary. We read the interview with Judge Sebastian Hermans, in which he says that people who vote PVV have a counter-indication if they want to become judges. I have had little anger in the judicial circles about this. When I see how Janmaat has been condemned for statements that are now simply the basis of government policy, how judges have actually banned the book The demise of the Netherlands and how my group leader has been allowed to experience the judiciary, I do not know how convenient it is for judges to come into that place, also in view of the enormous over-representation of D66's. And how are the people of the Review Committee on Bet Powers still contradicted? How is a countervailing power organized against the very important TIB, who should ultimately assess that burden? Who's going to test the testers? I think that's very important. That T.I.B.'s a lot of fun, but what about state law? Of course, the functioning of the TIB must not be at the expense of the parliamentary responsibility that the Minister has vis-à-vis our Parliament. It can't be that the minister says that the AIVD or the STIVD got the green light from the TIB, after which the story is finished. Then we, as Chambers and spokesmen, have even less to say than we now have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u89	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u91	First, an interruption by Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u92	I do not intend to have a whole debate here again, but I object to the suggestion being raised that we have a politically coloured judiciary. The judiciary is judging by laws we make here in this house. I distance myself from the fact that it is suggested here again, now in relation to the TIB, that judges could not do so because they themselves have a certain vision that they have in their judgments. I'd like the PVV to step away from that. I know she will not do this, but I would like to have noted that I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u93	You've made your point. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u94	Already on page 7 of the explanatory memorandum there is talk of external cooperation. It is indeed crucial. There's information being exchanged, do you know anything about it?; I know something about this........................................................................................................ That's crucial. How does that relate to the almost anti-American fanaticism that seems to have rolled over the cabinet in recent weeks? I understand that many are not satisfied with the choice of the American people for the current president. That is all very nice, but in Minister Plasterk's Twitter account I read that he retweeted a message in which Mr Trump, then still a candidate, was a dog and a pig that had to be beaten. Mr Asscher also appeared at a demonstration directed against the President. Mrs. Bussemaker is speaking there. Minister Ploumen has set up a fund that you can agree with in terms of content, but that there is still a clear way to torch off the American President. How do the two ministers think that fanatical anti-Americanism, certainly from the PvdA narrow section of this cabinet, falls in Washington? Imagine if the texts that are being said about the President were to be said about our Head of State. Then we Dutch would not stand in line to share information with the Americans either. I think that's a lot. Is this convenient, this fanaticism that has come over the cabinet, in the context of the extremely crucial exchange of information with the Americans? Much more important than technology is focus and it sometimes wants to lack it. We hear all kinds of cries, like the Islamic State has nothing to do with Islam. Mr Schoof is very shocked by the combination of gangsterdom and Islam. I'm surprised he's so surprised. The services undoubtedly have many successes and have undoubtedly saved a lot of lives. We don't know. They are successes in silence, which are of enormous importance for the Netherlands. At the same time, a lot has been lost in recent years. Recently about the Dutch elections, which turn out to be at risk again. We didn't know that as a room. We'll talk about that tomorrow. RaRa was never solved. That's a big deal. The greatest wave of terror we've had from left-wing idealists has never been solved. I do read an interview with Mr Kosto, who says that the perpetrator lives in South America. Apparently, he knows that somehow. RaRa was never solved. The find of material to make bombs in the GroenLinksjeugd building in July 2007 has never been solved. I understand that Mr Klaver was then leader of the Green Left Youth. That never came out. I think that's weird. The Rote Armee Fraktion is still out there. We had the Kurds in the door a little over two years ago. We didn't know that either. These are things that scare people very much and make people wonder if the AIVD is sharp enough in a number of areas. I look forward to the Ministers' answers. Some of them will be very technical. It'll take some time, but I think it's a subject that we need to get down to. So we're still in the middle of something, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u95	I think so, too. Mr Verhoeven has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u96	I agree with the words of the Christian Union, but I have rarely heard such a nuanced speech from Mr Bosma. In particular, in the first part he very much addressed a number of very relevant questions contained in this law. He's right to throw it up, too. I'm a little curious where the PVV is about where this law is at. I hear a lot of questions, just like the Labour Party. In that sense, the PVV now seems to take a bit of the same approach as the Labour Party, which is also striking. However, I have not yet seen any amendments or concrete improvements proposed by the PVV. Are they going to be there, or is Mr Bosma merely waiting for the answer? I'd like to hear more specifically where the PVV is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u97	I am going to listen to the ministers' answers with great interest, but I am not unsympathetic to the law. I can also see that there are a number of improvements. Actually, I do share some of the concerns. I just have to be honest with you about that. I believe it was Mr Van Raak who said that we are opening the door to a number of things. In the end, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u98	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the new Intelligence and Security Services Act today. In these services, a lot of people are working every day to keep our country safe, and I would like to thank them for that first. They represent an important line of defence in the fight against terrorism and other threats to our national security. It is therefore also important that the services have adequate opportunities to do their job. In 2013, the Dessens Commission launched a new law on intelligence and security services. Social and technological developments have made the 2002 law obsolete. That calls for a renewal of the law. There is a need for a technology-neutral formulation. The proposal before us seeks to achieve this. That has become a very thick suit, with all kinds of safeguards and other powers. The new bill has been critically received in parts, not only by privacy organisations, but also by the CTIVD, for example; this has just been mentioned. The CTIVD already supervises the work of the services afterwards. My group is therefore also looking at parts of this legislative proposal with a critical eye. At the same time, my group realises that it is in the interests of our security to give our services powers that allow them to continue to do their important work in an adequate manner. We must therefore seek the classic balance between security and privacy, between the right to a personal and inalienable domain where the government must remain outside, and the special responsibility of the government to act in the public interest and the interest of national security. Two important principles apply to the Christian Union in this law. Firstly, there is the question of the need for the new powers. The cabinet formulates new, far-reaching powers for the services. We would like it to be well-founded as to why these powers are needed. We must know whether these powers are necessary. Secondly, the adage: no powers without proper safeguards. That is important, in order to be able to embezzle those powers properly. I have the necessary questions on both points. I shall begin with the need for the new powers. As has been said, the government must be able to make it sufficiently clear that it is necessary to make a further, more serious breach of citizens' privacy in order to serve all our interests. It's complicated that we don't know what we don't know. The government cannot share everything about the work of the services, their limitation and the risks involved. That makes Parliament, in a sense, wandering around in the dark. In part, we will also have to deal with what professionals and independent supervisors tell us and with information given by the government about the threats that are coming to us and the need for new powers. Against that background, I have a number of questions. Firstly, I have some general questions about the amount of data available to the services now and later. As far as we are concerned, it would be very painful and undesirable if after incidents it appeared that information about such an incident was available, but was hidden in an information store in a filing cabinet at the AIVD. I do not want services to have more information than they can handle in an orderly manner. We should not collect unnecessary data from the protection of citizens. But we must also weigh that risk in terms of protecting the quality of the work of the services themselves. Services should not provide more information than they can use usefully. Is that risk now and then, as some organisations fear? Can the Minister elaborate on that? Much has already been written and exchanged about the power to search communication with targeted research assignments, the so-called dragnet. That's a lot to talk about. Let me first say that I am pleased that there are additional safeguards built into the law, although I will say a little more about strengthening safeguards and the TIB in general. I do, however, keep to the question of how the targeted research missions contribute to our security and are therefore necessary. In our environment there are countries where they do have such competence and there are countries where they do not have such competence. What problems are encountered because of this limitation? What are the experiences of partner countries with these techniques, as far as we can tell, because that is always difficult in this respect? And what risks are we currently running in the general sense, because we do not have that competence for cable-bound traffic? In terms of substance, I have another question concerning the definition of the scope of the targeted research assignments in the law. I get the impression, and it has changed here a number of times, that there is a lot of room for interpretation in the criteria of the law. The CTIVD also warns that there are insufficient clear criteria for the research assignments and that this prevents effective supervision. In the note following the report, the government indicated that a targeted research mission cannot focus on, for example, an entire residential area. On the basis of what criteria in the law does the government reach this conclusion? I'd like to get a closer look at that. And exactly how targeted should these research assignments be? How can the CTIVD effectively monitor this? Can the TIB, for example, test these commands in a material way? I have seen that there is an amendment by Mr Verhoeven to item No. 34 that those criteria are trying to fill in a little more. I am looking at this with interest, because I am also looking for ways to ensure that we can make the investigations as focused as possible. That seems to me to be the only way to explain why you need that technique. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to Mr Verhoeven's amendment on this point. The new law also regulates the keeping of DNA material and profiles. The CTIVD found in May that the AIVD maintained a DNA database in which names were linked to DNA material and that was not allowed. The material should have been destroyed. Can the government explain again why it is necessary to establish a database of DNA profiles and to keep the data for five years? To be honest, I have little doubt about the need for this, especially the relatively long retention period. Why does it take so long to save? How is it ensured that there are no profiles that are stored elsewhere? How exactly can the Minister and the TIB test that? I'd like a more detailed explanation. I think the retention periods are generally quite generous. I have seen some of my fellow Members' amendments on this point. I think we are going to have another discussion on this, in which the cabinet will also explain why we need these retention periods, but I believe that this too should be the starting point: no longer than necessary. I wonder if that is the case at the moment. I'd like to hear a convincing story from the cabinet. The law is technically neutral and I think that is wise. This makes it easier for services to respond to unforeseen technological developments. But it also presents the risk of technological developments falling within the scope of the law which could not be foreseen by the legislator. Can the government tell us how she weighs this risk? I have seen that there is an amendment on this point, I believe Mrs Voortman, to give the legislator more control over the application and handling of new techniques. That seems to me to be a very sensible amendment. I'd like to hear the government's reaction to that. Then a few questions about sharing information with foreign services. Can the Minister explain what could be the need for sharing data that has not yet been assessed by the Dutch services? Does the Minister consider it desirable to share such information? Is it conceivable that foreign services will carry out de facto research in the Netherlands through our services, in which our services are only the channel for information, without active involvement in those investigations? I would like a clarification on that point. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Verhoeven on the protection of journalists' sources. We'll wrestle with that. I am struggling with the fact that journalism, unlike the legal profession, is not a protected profession and is therefore less easy to protect without being abused. What variants has the Minister considered in this regard? Can he indicate what possibilities he sees to settle the uncontested issue of journalistic source protection in such a way that we do justice to that, but at the same time not make the work of the services impossible? That's what I'm looking for a balance between. Mr Verhoeven's amendment will undoubtedly be included in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union already asked me a question during my speech about how to deal with journalists. I have already looked at it and I will come back to it, but there are all kinds of definitions in circulation of the term "journalist" itself. We might be able to find each other in that, but that is still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you for this explanation, because I am looking for ways in which we can shape it. But, as I have just said, I find it undesirable that, when I call myself "journalist" because I happen to keep a blog, I end up in another regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u102	Then I also have a question on this point, because one thing remains unanswered. It's important to lawyers, but it comes from criminal law. Then it's about the content of the conversation. What the lawyer is discussing with his client is not up to the government. This is not the case for journalists, and for others, by the way. For journalists, the norm is to protect their source. You can never know who the source is. If a service is already on the source, the content is less important. Is that what Mrs. Schouten is wearing? Journalists and lawyers are now treated equally, but I think that is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u103	I have just indicated in the interrupting debate with Mr Verhoeven that I could not put it quite right, because it is quite unclear what a journalist is and what is not. I share the analysis that, if the service itself has the source in sight and is responsible for doing so, it must be investigated, but not through the journalist. That always seems to me to be the key point. We ourselves have been on committees that have done some research on this. You have to deal with this purely to ensure that a journalist can continue to do his work, but if the service itself has the source in sight, then it is up to that service to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u104	I have made two amendments. One is about broadening the right to change to notaries and members of a representative body. I wonder if the Christian Union sees bread in that. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is the following. The employees of secret services have a very important role to play in protecting our rule of law, namely to secretly detect dangers. Journalists have another task, which is also very important for our rule of law, namely to make information available to the public. Does the Christian Union feel the idea of including in the law that the secret services no longer approach journalists as sources or as agents, because these two roles in our rule of law simply cannot be combined?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u105	Can Mr Van Raak clarify the latter? I don't quite understand that: if the secret services don't approach journalists anymore as what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u106	The secret services are allowed to approach anyone. Anyone can say yes or no. Unfortunately, I also have examples of journalists who say yes and act as agents on behalf of a secret service, after which they will comment on TV or elsewhere and report. I would like to exclude this kind of thing in the future by saying that secret services should no longer approach journalists or people who are posing as journalists, so that these roles are no longer mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u107	Then we come back to the classic discussion of what a journalist is and what is not, because when suddenly I am a journalist, I can never be approached by the secret service again. I can imagine that there are some problems, but I think the Minister knows that much better. The first amendment dealt with enlargement to notaries and MPs. I haven't read that properly. Just give me a minute to think about that. I can imagine that sometimes there is a reason for notaries to take a look at it. Maybe they know that at the KNB (Royal Notarial Professional Organisation). I can't really look over that to be honest, but I'm gonna be happy to look at it. Then I'll include the Minister's opinion. Then I'll come to the guarantees. I think this is perhaps even more important than the issue of the powers that the services are given, even if one is not without the other. The difference between a surveillance state and a rule of law can be made right there. I see that the government has tried to build in the necessary safeguards, but I still have a number of questions. The first concerns the role of politics in the direction of the services, for example through ministerial consent. I understand that the ministers are involved, but there is also a risk, because it is quite a political thing for a minister to refuse the use of a certain power. I also wonder whether it fits in with the system of political responsibility, including towards the parliament, which calls for such an executive, controlling involvement in the deployment of the services. Isn't that going to be too strong for the political and administrative direction? Is there enough room for the services to make their own professional assessments and conduct their own investigations without politicising such a choice? The same goes for the other way around. Is there enough room for the Minister to fulfil his overall responsibility for the national security and privacy of citizens if he is given this role? This is particularly the case with the Integrated Information and Security Service Note. It's kind of cryptic in the explanatory statement, but I'd like to quote it. It says that the requirements for both services, AIVD and STIVD, will be the subject of discussion and weighing over the full breadth of the task package. What I understand is that more indications were given, particularly in the foreign branch. The foreign country is quite large. You can look very unfocused in that. In the interior, the services still have considerable autonomy to determine what they are looking at or not. Let me give you an example. Suppose there is a suspicion around a political party or there are political parties who have contacts with parties to which the service likes to investigate. If this is taken into account in the Integrated Designation, the Minister will be in a difficult position. He must then decide what the service can be for such a political party. You want the service itself to retain some kind of autonomy, don't you? I wonder whether the Minister feels this tension and whether he thinks it can increase with this Integrated Designation. Isn't that what we're doing to police the security of the services? I would like to comment on this point. The Review Committee on Betting Powers controls the ministerial consent for the use of special powers. I welcome the fact that, on the basis of the consultation and the legal analysis of the requirements of international law, the government has said that additional safeguards must be provided. But I do wonder if the three members of the TIB will not be very upset at home very soon. There will be a lot on their plate; by the way, there will be a lot on the Minister's plate. Well, at least he looks pretty fresh right now. The TIB will be given an important task. Can you make it with three people? I think the TIB should be dressed more, for example with more members. I am also concerned about the practical possibilities of the TIB to test requests in concrete and material terms. I get the impression, under this law, that the need, proportionality and subsidiarity must be judged fairly formally, and not materially, by the TIB. How does the Minister respond to the fears of organisations that this will generally make the TIB more likely to allow the use of special powers as much as possible, because it does not always have sufficient information? The TIB doesn't want it on its conscience that it doesn't do something, if later it turns out that it has flowed from it. I fear that the members of the TIB will become too dependent on the information provided by the services and the minister himself. How can we offer more guarantees in this respect, I ask the Minister. How can we ensure that the TIB looks at this with its own eyes and does not rely entirely and exclusively on the information provided by the services? I would also like to know how the TIB will work with the CTIVD. How is it prevented that ex ante and ex post supervision may vary? The TIB has a different information position than the CTIVD. It would be very bad if they were played against each other. I would like a response to that. As we give more powers to the services, I wonder whether we should also look at the role of the CTIVD. The CTIVD can now mainly advise and publish. The Minister can ignore that. Would it not be a good thing if the CTIVD could give more binding and concrete guidance to the Minister on how to adapt the services in order to ensure effective supervision? I have seen an amendment by Mrs Voortman calling for a kind of red button that the CTIVD can push if she thinks the services go too far. Actually, I'd like to build in an intermediate step. I am in the process of shaping an amendment. I apologize, because that's a little late. I think we should avoid giving the CTIVD all the powers on that point, because we can never control that. We don't know what we know. So we don't know if the CTIVD pressed the red button. Yeah, we can find out afterwards. In fact, therefore, an intermediate step towards Parliament should be built in. I can imagine that the CTIVD, in order to stay in the metaphor, draws the yellow card, she reports it to the House of Representatives, and that in this case the House of Representatives can finally draw the red card. So there remains a certain test. What does the Minister think of this proposal? Can political control on this point be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u108	This is very similar to the practice. The Chambers Committee has regular meetings with the CTIVD and we'll get her reports. So what is your proposal different from the current practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u109	Here again, I'm avenged that I don't know what's happening at the CIVD. If it's okay, none of the spokesmen here know that. We have not formally stipulated that the CTIVD can draw a yellow card, on which Parliament can draw a red card. We have stated that the CTIVD can draw up a report, that it can give an opinion and that it is up to the Minister himself to take that opinion or not. So he can ignore it, too. We are discussing what is popularly called 'the dragnet'. My point is therefore: if you give more powers, you must also strengthen the safeguards. I'm looking for the right balance. Let me return to Mr Recourt's example. Suppose there are all kinds of data stored that have nothing to do with this, and the CTIVD says they need to be destroyed. The Minister then says: thank you for the advice, but we continue. In such a situation, I would like the CTIVD formally to be able to do so, but again, I do not know if it will happen, because I am not in the CIVD's group chairmen' meeting, and I am not in the CIVD's group chairmen' meeting, given the opportunity to draw a yellow card, on which Parliament is formally given the opportunity to draw a red card.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u110	You are seeking your solution in keeping with the situation in which Parliament takes the final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u111	Parliament, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u112	Looking at the practice, not the committee secretly but our committee, I know only one example where the CTIVD has advised something and the Minister has not taken that advice. This opinion is almost always taken on board. This decision will then be taken here in Parliament. I believe that Mrs Koşer Kaya has tabled motions on this subject asking the Minister to follow the CTIVD. That is exactly what Mrs Schouten is proposing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u113	Maybe it's in the time order of things. There are cases where you have more time, you can discuss that in parliament and where it is more of a general principle: what do you do with data, how do you deal with it or not? Suppose there's an ongoing investigation that the CTIVD says you shouldn't, and the Minister says, "I'm gonna do this." Then that will not be discussed in the Chamber the next day. The CIVD can be called together at any time if necessary. I hope it does not happen, but I can imagine that there is a moment when the CTIVD says: I want to have a ruling from Parliament on this, not in public, because it is an ongoing investigation, but just at the CIVD, so that there is a parliamentary check on it. Then what are the possibilities without us knowing much later that the Minister has ignored something that might have meant something for an ongoing investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u114	I am thinking out loud with Mrs Schouten's amendment. We don't have the text yet, but do I understand her correctly as follows? The CTIVD finds an illegality and then the Court can say that the activity must be stopped or not. Only, the point is that until then, the activity detected by the CTIVD as unlawful will continue. Wouldn't that be undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u115	That is the answer to Mr Recourt's interruption. If it is a more general principle, it can be discussed here later on in connection with a report from the CTIVD. However, if it is an ongoing investigation and the CTIVD says it is not okay, we can call the CIVD together the next day. Again, I really don't know when it's gonna happen, but I do know that there's a possibility of calling together stante pede de CIVD. The decision can then, via the CIVD, be presented directly to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u116	Then I wonder what the difference is. Does the difference make him think that the Chamber will finally have the last word?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u117	Sure, and a minister doesn't. It may be possible for him or her to say that he or she wants to continue, but if there is a difference of opinion between the supervisor and the minister, Parliament should be the deciding factor, especially in the powers that we are now expanding. They could be a little more risky. We've been having that debate all day. So it's actually some kind of extra check where the parliament has to get in place or... Stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u118	Please continue, Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u119	I come to my final point. This is about the role of Parliament in the whole system of control of services. Shouldn't we keep that role sharp against the light again? This has happened in countries around us. This has recently happened in Germany. There were some reasons to revise it. Here it will be the group chairmen of the major parties who control the services. In Germany, it is a committee of parliamentarians and specialists working very intensively on this. In other countries the weather is different. I would like to have an international comparison of the handling of parliaments with democratic control of the work of the services. Perhaps we can learn from this ourselves and possibly strengthen the system of parliamentary control on the basis of it. I think it would be a good idea if we had a closer look at this. Is the Minister prepared to do so? If not, I shall table a motion on this matter. Several other questions have been asked by colleagues about the supervisors, both the CIVD and the CTIVD. For the sake of clarity, I am looking forward to the Minister's reply to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr. Chairman. Today, when we talk about our safety, we are no longer talking about a well-lit bicycle tunnel, a house that is resistant to burglars or the risk that an entrepreneur runs a robbery. When we talk today about security, it is increasingly about the threats that come from outside, about the security of our country in an international context. International security is a lot less accessible to many people, because we have only limited influence on it ourselves. However, the concern is no less. We are faced with terrorist attacks in the countries around us. We see images of millions of people fleeing and seeking a new home in Europe. We see a world in which figures like Trump, Putin and Erdogan make the most of it. We are seeing unrest at the borders of the NATO territory. Those are threats we can see. The same developments are taking place in the digital world and we do not see them. We are hearing and reading more and more about cyber attacks on our vital infrastructure, about Russian hackers targeting the Tower, about IS operating terrorist cells in Europe from Raqqa. These are just a few examples that show that the world is on the move and that there are major security issues that we, often in cooperation with other countries, will have to find an answer to in order to continue to guarantee our national security. Our intelligence and security services play a crucial role in monitoring that national security. They are not only confronted with this alarming threat, but also with extremely rapid technological developments. The authors of the old 2002 Intelligence and Security Services Act had never foreseen that it would be so fast, that all communications that were still running via satellite in 2002 are now largely cabled, that we are not only increasingly connected globally by social media and the Internet, but that the threats to our national security have also become digital. This includes cyber attacks, digital espionage and international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mrs. Tellegen is right. In 2002, the legislator could not foresee what technological developments would occur. For example, Sony now creates a camera in a lens. But even now, we can't foresee it, and it'll be faster than less fast. Isn't the problem that we are opening a door now when we say that our secret services will be able to intervene independently of technology and use technologies that we don't know yet? Then we're actually giving away a lot of our power and responsibility, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u122	In Mr Van Raak's question there is a bit of fear, perhaps a little distrust of what is going to happen. The law has been made technology independent for a reason. That is precisely what has been done to enable the services to move forward. I have followed the debate so far. I have also heard Mr Van Raak's wish to see whether limits can be imposed on the lists of permitted techniques and whether the Chamber can be informed in advance. I am not in favour of that. Firstly, I have confidence in the services themselves. Secondly, I know that, although afterwards, the Chamber will be informed of this every year by the CTIVD, after which it will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u123	Now technologies are being developed everywhere and politics is bumping behind them, facing the consequences. Isn't it high time we started discussing what kind of technologies are good, how technologies can be embedded in society and what is Parliament's responsibility in it? Surely there must be an opportunity for Parliament to continue to debate the new technologies used by the secret services. Surely it would be crazy if we were to close the door and say: whatever is being developed in the future, the secret services can start working on it and we no longer need to have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u124	The interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u125	Mr Van Raak says it well: perhaps politics is behind technical developments. However, I can assume that our services do not. With this law, we are giving them the opportunity to go along with these technological developments and to jump into them. Again, it is not: in total ignorance we stand by and look at it. Of course, the discussion must take place. Mr Van Raak has rightly made comments on this. For example, we have asked questions about the Internet of Things, on which I think Mr Verhoeven has just written a very nice note. The debate in Parliament is therefore taking place. However, at the moment I think it is important that the services should be able to work and that I welcome the fact that the law has therefore been drafted independently of technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u126	In the future it will be the case that, as a supervisor CTIVD encounters issues where new technologies are used, she can report them in a report to the House of Representatives. That's not in the law at all. That's not in any arrangement. We'll just assume that's what the CTIVD is doing. I have every confidence in that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u127	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u128	But that's after. That's when the secret services already have a way of working, that they're already using technologies...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u129	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u130	...that they're already hacking into something. Then it's too late. Then the station's already passed. Doesn't the VVD need to inform the House of Representatives earlier if new technologies can be used, so that the House of Representatives can have a debate on this and take responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u131	Before I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen, I would like to say the following. I did not limit the number of interruptions. However, I can see that there is a lot of interference. There are also lengthy introductions before the question is asked. Everyone knows that an interruption must be short. The answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u132	This is not a bad thing to Mr Van Raak; I mention it in the context of what the President is saying. I don't have that need, exactly for the reason I just mentioned. I'd rather the services get on with it. They're not going to do that unbridled without informing us about what they're doing and with what techniques. But that's what I like to hear afterwards. If we find any of that, then we can judge it exactly as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u133	Well, then you'll be sitting there afterwards. I understand what Mrs Tellegen says: you want a law that allows the services to move forward. The technology is going faster than we can make laws. So I also understand why you're saying that we shouldn't exactly include that in the law itself. But wouldn't it make sense to include that in the General Measure of Management? This way you do not lose the speed, but it is clear which devices and automated works can be used and to which the powers relate. Wouldn't that be a logical way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u134	I have seen that amendment, that proposal. In line with what I just said, no, I'm not in favour of it, because you'll never be complete. You're gonna work with an exhaustive list. On the day you draw it up, it is obsolete; we have now experienced this with this law from 2002. I have no illusion that the law we are discussing today will not be obsolete in five or ten years' time. That's the risk we're taking. I just think that we should not impose restrictions in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u135	So Mrs Tellegen is actually issuing a blank cheque. How many times have we dealt with critical reports from the CTIVD that have already been said about the law: there was no legal action here? Is it right to say on this point that we do not have to set any framework for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mrs Voortman is now talking about legitimate action. That's something else. Her initial question was: how do you look at limiting or limiting the technologies that the services use? I am not in favour of that. Once again, Mrs Voortman also gives the impression that the services can simply go their own way. That is not the case, but I will come up with that in a broader sense. This law provides for sufficient safeguards. The services must have powers that are independent of technology, so that they are not overtaken by technological developments every few years. This was also the result of the evaluation carried out by the Dessens Committee a few years ago of the operation of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2002. The law turned out to be obsolete and had to be replaced as soon as possible. Today we finally discuss this new law. This new one must enable the intelligence and security services to monitor national security as closely as possible, both within and outside our borders. It is the AIVD and the STIVD who, for the most part under the radar and behind the scenes, try to anticipate threats to our national security and try to protect our country from attacks and attacks. The main difference with the old law is that a distinction is no longer made between satellite and cable. The new law thus becomes technology independent. The new power it creates is also the power to hunt down terrorists, hackers and other people, institutions and countries who are targeting our security by cable. In addition, existing powers are more explicitly included in the new law, and some even more so. Before I comment on the phenomenon of the research assignment-oriented interception and on a number of other aspects of this law, I first make a few general remarks, together with a few questions to the cabinet. I'll start with the two services why it all goes today, the STUD and the AIVD. This new law applies to both services, and that integrated approach and approach is good. It already existed in the old Wiv, but is again underlined in this new law. I know that there is increasing cooperation in joint teams, consisting of people from both departments. That makes sense now that domestic and foreign threats are becoming more and more interwoven. This is reflected, among other things, in the so-called CVIN, the Netherlands Security and Intelligence Committee. This joint committee is now given a legal basis, providing a good understanding and balance between the foreign intelligence mission and the security task of both departments. The basis and framework are the integrated designation, drawn up every four years, setting out the priorities and research tasks for both departments. Can the Cabinet indicate to what extent this firmer cooperation will bring added value to our security? I would also like to ask, in general terms, whether both ministers can give concrete examples of what the services will and will no longer be able to do and what the added value of this law will be. This has been requested by several colleagues. More specifically, I ask the Minister of Defence how this new Wiv will make a concrete contribution to the even better support of foreign missions by STUDY. I come to the balance between privacy and security, which, in my group's view, is well regulated in this law. The present law strikes a good balance between, on the one hand, the duty of the services to protect national security and to guarantee the fundamental rights of all Dutch people and, on the other hand, the duty to do so in a way that minimises the harm to those fundamental rights and minimises the violation of the privacy of ordinary Dutch people. In these times of international terrorism, cyber threats and digital espionage, the VVD finds it only natural that we enable the AIVD and the STUD to avert threats to our national security. The VVD thinks it's just as much as normal to watch each time you use this kind of special powers to keep the breach of people's privacy as small as possible. It is clear that the VVD considers that these two issues in this law are in good balance with each other. Then I come to the new power, the so-called "research mission-oriented interception" of data that can be found on the cable. It is a good thing that the services will finally be able to handle people, institutions and states who are threatening our security. It's about time. Unfortunately, there are many fears about this new power which, in my view, do not do justice to the careful way in which this power is now laid down in the law. The services do not get carte blanche to remove all information about persons and organisations from cable without any form of control. The services do not spoil themselves with bulk data which would make searching for a needle in the haystack. After all, the duty to destroy all irrelevant data lies in the law. The services are not going to follow massive groups of people on the internet and read all the e-mails that contain the word "bomb" or "IS," because that is disproportionate and will never be able to count on the permission of the minister or the TIB. I find this image detrimental to this important law, which will soon allow the services to do what they have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u137	I am happy that the VVD also does not want the services to spoil themselves with so much data that they can't find anything and therefore can't do their job properly. This has happened in other countries, in other cases and in other services. Isn't the VVD just being very naive on this point by saying that it trusts that this is not going to happen, whereas in many places in other countries this has happened as a result of such laws? Is it not wise to regulate a few things in the law just better than to say 'we trust them', whereas that trust was not based on anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u138	Mr Verhoeven talks about other countries. I am now here as a Dutch MP to deal with a Dutch law applicable to the Dutch services. I note that I want to oppose the image, and that is where I was talking about hundreds of thousands of Dutch people being tapped unbridled. There are incredibly many safeguards in this law. I have just missed that in Mr Verhoeven's contribution. I have just mentioned a number of safeguards to ensure that the balance sheet is in order. I shall come back to that in greater detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u139	The VVD may wish that hundreds of thousands of people are not tapped, innocent and for no reason at all. The VVD may want that and it's also good that the VVD says that I'm very happy about that, but the VVD doesn't regulate this in the law. The VVD ignores that fact, the Labour Party did just as well.This law, if you read it correctly, offers a lot of space for the creation of all kinds of unfocused data collections. The cabinet and the services are the only reaction to this: no, we are not going to do that in practice. Then why don't we settle that in the law? Why doesn't the VVD bother to tighten up the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u140	Because I have just made it very clear that I believe that the relationship and balance in that law are in order at the moment. I can't say it any better. I do not have the need to anchor it even more firmly in the law, because I cannot identify myself with the image that Mr Verhoeven sketches, namely that the services will soon just get carte blanche to get grass dunes in every computer they encounter. The cabinet has sought the balance in this law and, after a long search, found it. There is now a law in balance. It's not like the services can just get on the cable. For that, they need the Minister's permission. For this they need a legality test by the TIB, after they have written a very pure research assignment. I consider the questions that Mrs Voortman has asked relevant. What exactly does this research assignment look like? I have too little idea of that too, so I would like to know that from the cabinet. But it is not that the services just climb up the cable and say: what should we plug in on or what should we tap in on? Then they take a bite out of the cable, but then the funnel follows. There is a duty immediately to destroy everything that is not relevant. While the services are working on it, the CTIVD is already working on it. It can break into the process at any time and say: listen, here's something going on that doesn't add up. So I can go through the whole process of the law, up to and including the complaint procedure created at the CTIVD. I may be the first to say it so bluntly lost, but I think the balance in this law is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u141	Then it is interesting that even Mrs Tellegen has some questions about that research assignment. I'm glad she supports my questions on that. The fact is that the funnel can be wide. Anything that falls within the research assignment could fall into that funnel. That means there could be computers, laptops, iPads, all kinds of devices in there from people who aren't suspects. A party like the VVD, which values people's freedom, should be concerned about the fact that this bill makes that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u142	I do not know better than that the necessity, focus, proportionality and subsidiarity require a research mission that is as focused as possible. Otherwise, nothing can be started at all. I find the statement that the services will be able to tap innocent citizens very dangerous. I cannot give a clear answer to that now. I'm curious to see what the cabinet thinks of that statement. There must always be a reason and a need to tap someone. If there aren't, it's disproportionate. In that whole pride of precautions I see enough guarantees that I don't recognize myself in the image.I'm not going to use the word........................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u143	I find this interesting. At the beginning of her reply, Mrs Tellegen indicated that she was curious about the Minister's reaction to the statement. Apparently, she thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u144	I'm interrupting. It is quite something to say that the services are about to tap people against whom there is no suspicion whatsoever. I think that's a solid proposition. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I do not know better than that a very careful review system is being set aside for a new competence, which, in my opinion, is sufficient after reading the law, after attending all round tables etc. It is a very bold theorem, on which I like to hear a reaction. I do not think that is possible with this law in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u145	Now it's getting interesting. So Mrs Tellegen says: if this law makes it possible for people to be tapped without any suspicion... I assume that she does have doubts as to whether the balance in this law is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u146	No, I understand that Mrs. Voortman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u147	I have made the statement that this law can make it possible for people to be tapped without any suspicion. We'll find out from the Minister later if that's true. Mrs Tellegen points out that this is absolutely not possible. But the idea of a dragnet is precisely that you are wide funneling and then extracting out what is relevant. So it's possible. It would be really good if Mrs Tellegen had that doubt, which is less convinced that the privacy guarantees in this law are well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u148	Mrs. Voortman is trying to corner me that she can't get me into. I haven't used the words she's saying. I found her theorem rather bout and I'm curious about the Minister's reaction to it. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u149	Mrs Tellegen says on behalf of the VVD that there will be a targeted search and that no bulk information will be collected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u150	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u151	That no bulk information is being retrieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u152	I do not know whether Mr Van Raak knows what a funnel is: it starts wide and ends narrow. I did not say that the services will only be carrying out targeted research in the near future, because that is precisely the essence of the extension of competence. It is being widely used. You'll get the cuckoo! Mr Van Raak has just had that little debate with Mr Recourt. Just one-on-one tap with someone you know who he's making a phone call with is something the services can already do. The added value of this whole competence is precisely that the services make a large part of their work consist of searching for information that they do not know 100%. That is at the heart of the work of the services, and Mr Van Raak is well aware of that. It means you have to be involved in analyzing metadata. That's right. And yes, there's the picture you're using more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u153	I hope you don't mind if I ask you a question. Mrs Tellegen says on behalf of the VVD that the law is well balanced, but the supervisor, the CTIVD, our eyes and ears, says that this is not the case. It speaks explicitly of bulk. Mrs Tellegen didn't let me do that, but the CTIVD does. It says that the acquisition of large quantities of data, which is the subject of research-oriented interception, infringes the fundamental rights of many people who do not justify research by the services. Therefore, the CTIVD says that much clearer criteria need to be included in the law in order to ensure that that competence is targeted. The CTIVD does not agree with the VVD at all, but says that the law is not yet in balance and that it still needs to be regulated in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u154	The CTIVD has contributed to a better balance in this law on a very large number of points. I am very grateful to the CTIVD for that. That's good, too. But I do not agree with the CTIVD on this point. I do not need to contain the proportionality, necessity and subsidiarity that are now laid down in general terms in the law, because it unnecessarily restricts services in advance. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u155	We're way ahead of you. We started by saying that it was all focused, but it has already been said that it is not. The government has now come up with a new term that will do well with scrabble: research-focused interception. But we do agree that these can be all kinds of research, can be all kinds of assignments and can also be very unfocused.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u156	I didn't hear a question. Please continue with your speech, Mrs Tellegen. No, Mr Verhoeven, you just came. We're not going in circles. That doesn't make the discussion any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u157	No, we don't have to go in circles. I have one question. Mr Van Raak just put it. It was definitely a question. You say it wasn't a question, but it was a question. The question is whether the VVD simply wants to admit that this law makes it possible to tap data from innocent citizens, without suspicion of research. I just want a clear answer to that. The VVD pretends it isn't. I want it to be clear that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u158	I have indicated that I am in favour of this new competence. This new power indeed means that you take a bite on the cable that you don't know in advance what information you get from it. I'm moving on. Do you know where I arrived, Mr Verhoeven? By the word that your children will spell from tomorrow, I think, research-oriented interception. I have the general question to both Ministers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u159	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u160	What's that? No, that's not my question. My question is whether the ministers can respond once again to the widespread accusation that the fundamental right to privacy is being grossly violated by this law. I would also like to hear from the cabinet what would happen if we did not decide to create this new power. For example, what does this cable-based interception mean for the possibilities of fast image building for the NIVD? What's the AIVD missing because he can't operate on the cable? I'd like to hear that again from the cabinet. I have the following questions about this cable-bound interception. This interception takes place in three steps: the acquisition of the data, the processing of the data and its analysis. For each step, the Minister's consent and review by the TIB is required. Can that consent also be granted at once by merging the three steps, I ask the Minister. Moreover, the services are obliged to destroy data that are not relevant during this process as soon as possible. How exactly does that destruction work? Is there any record of what will be destroyed when? I see every time it's been on the agenda for a while.....that funnel in front of me. The services shall zoom in on the relevant information as soon as possible by placing negative and positive filters over the data acquired. Then it follows processing and analysis in phases two and three. I would like to know from the Minister how this is going to work in practice and also how much time this takes on average. In doing so, I have come to monitor the process of interception. How exactly can the CTIVD verify, during the processing phase, whether and, if so, how the correct information is destroyed? I'd like to get a closer look at that. The VVD considers it wise that the duty of care has been extended. Not only are the services obliged to account for the general performance of the service, but also the AIVD and STIVD have to account specifically for this careful data processing. An additional requirement is that the data processed be provided with a statement of reliability or a reference to the source from which the data is derived. All this enables the regulator, the CTIVD, much better to effectively check whether the automated data processing takes place lawfully and to report on this to the Chamber. Apart from the extensive duty of care and the supervisory authority's ability to access, throughout the processing process, to carry out his controlling task, there is still human validation. It is of great importance at the end of the process in the weighting, assessment and interpretation of the research results. Algorithms and other models can, of course, contain imperfections. I would like to hear from the Minister what is happening in this context with the knowledge and skills needed within the service to start working with cable-based interception. Can the two ministers give an estimate of how this law is going to affect the staff of the services? I will now come to the retention period. That is also what has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u161	I have just said to Mr Recourt that it is my fear that supervision is being used as some sort of pubic agent, as a kind of stamp machine, to exploit all the space in the law. At the VVD this concern is even greater than at the PvdA, because the VVD just seems to answer: yes, but we have good supervision. I've seen how the VVD has dealt with independent supervisors in recent years. For example, the President of the Court of Auditors got the wind up when he was a bit critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u162	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u163	My question is... thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some introduction should be possible, by the way! My question is whether the VVD really wants strong independent supervision or whether it is more of a pubic subject to a very broad-based law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u164	Of course, the VVD wants independent and good supervision. In fact, that's what we've got in the Wiv now. If Mr Verhoeven had listened carefully, he would have just heard that I was paying a compliment to the current supervisor. It has contributed in a very fundamental way to the completion of this law. So the answer is yes. My questions to the Minister were also aimed at this, because it is precisely for data processing and the data retrieval process that it is very important that the supervisor has already been contacted and can follow what is happening. That's exactly what I just asked the Minister. My question was how it works. I also want to know if the CTIVD will be able to control effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u165	Now, I'd like to focus on the pre-test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u166	Okay. I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u167	Okay, but I'm gonna ask you a question about it, if that's okay. The VVD says that there is not much more to be done in the legislation, because it trusts that data will not be collected unbridled. In the law, the VVD is not going to take care of that, so all that remains is the test in advance. The VVD is very happy about this, but does the VVD want that supervisor to say to the minister and to the cabinet once in a while: no, we should not do this? In other words, does the VVD want an independent firm test in advance or does the VVD want a prior test, and that feeling I get a sort of organization through which she can say "we don't have to worry about this law at all, because we've arranged supervision"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u168	No. I'll get to it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u169	If you come back to that, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u170	I am in favour of the TIB and I am also in favour of the TIB doing its job. So we are not rigging some paper tiger who, if the TIB finds that the motivation under the Minister's decision to use that power is not right, which cannot then make known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u171	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u172	I'm coming to the retention period. The work of the services falls and stands by gathering the right information to counter threats. With the right information they can protect our military abroad. With the right information, they can avert digital attacks. With the right information, they can prevent terrorist attacks. We all know that getting that information takes a lot of effort and long-term intelligence work. It's a matter of a long life. Suppose, after years of searching and searching, the AIVD has a terrorist cell in sight. My group then considers it normal that this information should be kept for a longer period of time in order to counter terrorist threats. The same applies to the STUDY. The Military Intelligence and Security Service is constantly building up a solid information position to support our missions as effectively as possible. Then you want to be able to use that information indefinitely. I would therefore like to know from the Ministers whether their services will be able to cope with the three-year retention period. Is this retention period sufficient, given the length of time and the huge amount of time and effort it takes to achieve a good information position? I'd like to get a response. I understand the government wants to prepare a so-called access location for cable interception this year. Logically, the threat picture determines where that tap to intercept the relevant data is set. This is done in consultation with the telecommunications sector. The costs to be incurred for this will be reimbursed. Until 2020, such a location will be added, so a step-by-step approach. All this sounds reasonable on the VVD: no hasty steps, first see how it works. What picture does the Minister of the future have in this respect? How many of those locations does he see in front of him? Can the Secretary of Defense indicate how this goes abroad? Then I come to the Review Committee on Betting Powers, also called the TIB. Under the old law, the system of ministerial consent functioned well in the use of special powers. The supervisor subsequently supervised and reported to the Lower House. That's changing now. The British model was chosen. An independent committee will be set up to carry out a legality test on all existing powers and on the new competence of cable interception. The so-called TIB assesses whether the motivation can bear the Minister's decision to have the service deployed. I would like to hear from the ministers how the TIB relates to ministerial responsibility. After all, the TIB comes with a binding judgment and thus can stop the Minister's decision to use the power. The three members of the TIB shall be appointed in the same manner as the members of the CTIVD. Two out of three must have been judges for at least six years and the third member must have technical expertise and understanding of security risks. All that makes sense. However, I do have two more questions about the method of working. Popularly speaking, I would like to prevent us from ever ending up in a situation where the services are waiting for the Minister's and the TIB's consent and that goes off outside the bomb belt. How do we ensure that the TIB is able to make a careful assessment, but at the same time that the situation remains workable in speed? I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. Not insignificant: the TIB's judgment is binding. If the committee feels that the Minister's motivation for the decision to use the power is insufficient, the party will not go on. I know that this practice still has to develop and that it is looking at coffee, but I would like to hear from the Minister what he expects to happen if the TIB finds that the use of the power is not lawful. Can the Minister reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u173	Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists fear with me that this could be a hollowing out of the responsibility that the Minister has vis-à-vis Parliament? Now he can just say, "The TIB gave her okay," so I'm good. He can say, "Room, you don't have a leg to stand on."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u174	That's an interesting question. That is precisely why I once again asked the Minister in what relationship the Committee of Inquiry is in to his own ministerial responsibility. We now have a law that operates with special powers without this review committee. That committee is now being set up because we are adding a special competence that can have major consequences. My group is in favour of this. At the same time, I note that this may be at odds with ministerial responsibility on certain points. I am very curious to know how the Minister himself feels about this. Then there is a comment about the CTIVD, the control during the process of interception and the ex post control. Control during interception is new. I would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks the CTIVD will gain insight into the processing of the data. I have no idea how that will work in practice. It also requires the right knowledge from the CTIVD and the right specialities to be able to do so. This question was also raised earlier. The CTIVD also carries out its role as supervisor under the current law in a very solid and dedicated manner. On the basis of the new law, the CTIVD is now also given the role of complaint-handler. For this purpose, a separate department is set up within the CTIVD. The number of complaints so far was two per year. Is the cabinet expecting an increase in this number? I'd like a response. Finally. This law is a pure necessity. It's a good thing she's getting there. With this law, STIVD and AIVD finally acquire the powers that are needed in these times of threat to guard our national security, to contribute to international security and to allow our military to operate successfully abroad. The VVD is therefore in favour of this new law. Of course, the VVD also considers it perfectly normal that the new powers should be properly guaranteed. The services that guard our security must be able to rely on us like no other, precisely because they usually do their work in secret. This law strikes a good balance on that point. I hope that my colleagues, too, today, will be able to rely on that confidence and support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u175	The regulator we have just spoken about, the CTIVD, which has been around for a long time and often gives its findings on the services, has written in Report 46 that the substantive yield of the use of selection powers is often limited, which raises questions about the effectiveness and therefore proportionality of the deployment. So I am not talking about private domain, privacy or privacy, but about security effectiveness. Is the VVD really convinced, despite the fact that a lot of people are asking questions about it, that this way of collecting very widely is an effective way to increase security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u176	The core of the intelligence service's work is to look for unprecedented threats or parts of threats that we have some idea of, but not yet enough to take them exactly to the man. I also know that almost 90% of all communication is now cable. Wouldn't we be crazy Henkie if we didn't give the services the authority to intercept on that cable, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u177	I'd like to stay away from terms like "crazy Henkie." There was also a mention just now of bomb belts going off when the supervisor is still watching. I'd like to stay away from that right now. There are a lot of serious people there too I count on myself at the moment who very much want security in this country to be increased. Those serious people are looking with great care at the fact that an enormous amount of extra data is being collected. If we deny that there is such a possibility, we are crazy, because that is what this law is aimed at. My only concern is that that pile of data is going to be so big that the data addiction is going to be the work of the service in the law. I believe that we should take legal action to ensure that this is done. My question to the VVD is why it is not doing anything in this area, when it says it has such high regard for safety. Why doesn't the VVD take that concern seriously at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u178	Because I don't share that concern. I do not see that mountain with data arise, because I know that from the very first moment in the law there is a duty to reduce data and because I know that the service can only be put on cable if it has the Minister's permission and later also the TIB. So there are all kinds of safeguards in this law to allow this power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u179	Mr. Chairman. The work of the intelligence and security services is indispensable for the protection and defence of the democratic rule of law. The work of the intelligence and security services is indispensable for the safety of the Dutch citizens and for the safety of the Dutch military on mission. For the CDA Group, there is no doubt that the powers of the services need to be modernised. Technological developments in the field of information and communication are accelerating. We are fully reaping the benefits: we are connected to the Internet day and night and we are connected to each other via computer and mobile phone, we are watching Netflix and there is plenty of gaming. However, the growing dependence on the same technology also makes our society vulnerable. That is why we must constantly invest in the means by which we protect and defend our society. The same applies to the police and the judiciary, the same applies to defence, and so does our intelligence and security services. This cabinet started over four years ago with a substantial cut in the AIVD: the removal of the foreign task. As quickly it was clear that this was a reckless austerity measure in a tense world. With the report on cuts and intensifications in the AIVD, the General Court has put the finger on the sore spot. The Court concluded that the government agreement did not take sufficient account of the particular dynamics of a knowledge-intensive organisation such as the AIVD. The CDA Group considered and considers it necessary to restore the IAVD's budget. There was an urgent need to raise financial resources, but there is also an urgent need to strengthen the powers of the services. As early as December 2013, the Dessens Committee concluded that the Intelligence and Security Services Act needed to be amended. It advocated that the services should also be able to operate on the cable when there are threats to national security. Cyber attacks and digital espionage pose a new threat to national security. STUDY and AIVD are allowed to intercept data and telecommunication traffic unfocused within the current law if that traffic goes through the ether or via the satellite. The explosive growth of international cable networks makes it increasingly important for these services to be able to explore and analyse cable-linked Internet traffic in the interests of national security, the Dessens Committee concluded. The same committee stressed the need for a new balance between the effective operation of the intelligence and security services and the legal guarantees. That balance must be firmly anchored in the law. Today we are finally discussing the legal form in which the Dessens Committee's recommendations are formulated. Can the Minister explain exactly how far this bill is going? Part of it concerns the definition of existing powers of the services, part about new powers and part about the definition and extension of existing safeguards. For the CDA Group, the effective functioning of the services and adequate supervision of the services are not available separately. I would remind you of the remarks made by Commission President Dessens when presenting the report: 'Citizens, directors and representatives of the people must be able to be firmly convinced that our intelligence and security services work within a legal framework. A framework that gives sufficient recognition that their particular position is only acceptable if those services are embedded in a confidence-building system of steering, monitoring and transparency." Does the present bill contain that confidence-building legal framework? That is the question we need to answer today. Does the bill meet the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights? In other words, is the Strasbourg proof bill? That's what I'm asking the Minister. At first sight, it is a legal and technical question, but above all it is a question of the adequacy of the resources of the services. These are means by which the services protect national security, the security of civilians and the security of military personnel on missions. That is a core task of our government. Then there's supervision. At the request of the CTIVD, the Department of State and Administrative Law of Leiden University conducted research into the human rights framework for the Dutch system of supervision of the intelligence and security services in 2015. The researchers concluded that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights showed a strong preference for prior authorisation by an independent authority for the use of collusive investigative powers that deeply interfere with the privacy of our citizens. In the legislative proposal, this review is entrusted in advance to the Review Committee on Bet Powers, the TIB. The legality judgment of the TIB is binding, but at the same time the powers and possibilities of the TIB are limited. The TIB will assess the same information the Minister has. Unlike the CTIVD, the TIB does not have the powers and possibilities to request the underlying information from the services. Can the Minister explain how the TIB's prior assessment will relate to the CTIVD's research possibilities? How is it ensured that the TIB has sufficient expertise, knowledge and capacity, so that ex ante verification is not a formality, but leads to a sound judgment? The Leiden researchers further concluded that ECHR case-law results from the requirement of binding ex post legality supervision by an external independent supervisor. Can the Minister tell us how this binding legality oversight was implemented in the legislative proposal? Finally, the researchers also conclude that ECHR case-law lays down an imperative requirement that independent supervision may make a binding assessment in complaint procedures. That's now invested in the CTIVD. In the legislative proposal, that binding judgment in complaint procedures is entrusted to the CTIVD. Can the Minister explain how the various roles of this CTIVD will relate to each other? There is also discussion as to whether the bill is "Strasbourg proof" in terms of the three-year retention period for data collected in the framework of research assignment-oriented interception. Can the Minister explain again why a three-year retention period is proportionate? For the CDA Group, the demand for the length of the retention period is not crucial, but whether sufficient guarantees are provided that the data for which they were collected are used. In the report, the CDA Group raised the question of how the government guarantees that the storage of data on servers or in the cloud is always under Dutch law. If data from those services are on servers on Dutch territory, there is no problem. But does that also apply if data from those services are stored in the cloud? The CDA Group wants to prevent data from being outside the scope of Dutch law by storing the services on servers outside Dutch territory, or in the cloud, so that the legal protection of citizens is at stake. Does the Minister recognise that this could be a problem? In what way is it ensured that the data of the services are always covered by Dutch law? The CDA Group believes that it is necessary to extend the powers of the services, as well as to strengthen the supervision of services. It goes without saying that the services must have sufficient resources to actually provide additional guarantees. Supervisors should also have sufficient resources to monitor their operation. They must have sufficient capacity, knowledge and expertise. Can the Minister explain how both services and supervisors are being strengthened? The work of the intelligence and security services is not controlled in the same way as the work of other administrations. The Dessens Committee's evaluation report has produced important recommendations for the effective functioning of the services, as well as for monitoring them. That is why the CDA Group considers the assessment clause in the legislative proposal to be important. Of course, the effectiveness and effects of this law will be evaluated in practice. However, the functioning of the services will also be periodically reviewed. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, this is not a formality, but an essential contribution to the protection and defence of the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u180	I would have expected Mr Amhaouch to deal with the powers given by this law if he were to be adopted. For example, look at what we call "the dragnet" and what the cabinet calls "research mission-oriented interception." That is a considerable increase in the powers of the services. A power that has not been demonstrated anywhere that it actually makes the Netherlands safer. What does Mr Amhaouch think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u181	From 14 hours we are listening and this comes back regularly. In the current law, the old law of 2002, there is already the possibility of unfocused interception on the ether or satellite. So that already exists. In the old law, that also existed on the cable. We move to the cable, most people use, the highway where most cars drive. And then it's a special power at once? It is indeed a power that we go to the cable, that is correct. But we could do that on the air. We could have done that by satellite. I think we're making it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u182	That's a bit more than a technical change. There was hardly any communication in the air and via the satellite. There's a lot of communication on the cable. A lot more people take advantage of that. That is what Mr Amhaouch and I are making use of. That goes much further, doesn't it? I find it a little strange that Mr Amhaouch is now pretending that we are only discussing a technicality here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u183	I don't know who's crazy. In 2002, when we introduced this law, there were 600 million Internet connections worldwide. Now we're almost at three billion. At that time, it made sense to go on the air. Today, it makes sense for us to look where people share the information. I don't know who's crazy here. Of course we're gonna watch the cable. You're not just gonna see where light is, are you? You're gonna see where it happens, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u184	But at least you want to know what's effective. It's important to see what's effective, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u185	One thing that's not effective...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u186	Just a moment, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u187	Several political groups have mentioned that the investigation of the American CTIVD shows that no attack has been prevented due to bulk interception. So what are we talking about here? Those facts must be important to the CDA, too, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mrs. Voortman contradicts herself. She says on the one hand that everyone has started communicating over the Internet and on the other hand that you don't appear by looking on the internet. The point is that the AIVD and the STUDY are given the means to carry out research, to be able to do information analysis where it takes place. Today is the cable, the internet cable, the fiber optic cable. That makes sense, doesn't it? If people aren't sitting there, we don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u189	I have followed the CDA with great interest over the past few years. They were all the time the critical party that was against everything. They held opposition in the Lower House and in the open debate. I have not heard the CDA Group today raise any critical questions about the most far-reaching law we have dealt with in the last four. It's like there's a representative of a government party. Why is the CDA suddenly as easy as a lamb and is it no longer the opposition party that is thinking, but the party that is here to help the cabinet to the majority for a law that goes hugely far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u190	The CDA has always been committed to safety. As I said earlier, the CDA has also made a very clear commitment to increasing resources for the AIVD and the STUDY. The CDA has committed itself to the Computer Crime Act III, which D66 voted against. The CDA stands for a piece of security. When I look at the law that is now in place, including the comments of the Council of State and how a number of matters have been translated into the law, I find their urgency very high. I have here the report of the debate on 7 April following the attacks by Brussels. There, a party leader, Mr Verhoeven's party leader, says: "What happened between March 22nd and today to see where El Bakraoui was between the time he landed at Schiphol in the summer of last year and the time he blew himself up on March 22nd?" "I really don't get this," says the same man. "It is now a few weeks after the attack. One of the terrorists arrived at Schiphol Airport on 15 July. Then we want to know where he was?" And so it goes on, and so it goes on and so it goes on. The Minister's reply at the time, which is no longer there, was very clear: 'Dear Chamber, we do not have the powers'. If Mr Verhoeven claims that security is important, he must also provide our services with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u191	The fact that you are starting to talk so loud, almost starts to scream, while I am simply asking a question about the critical role of the cabinet, and that you are then going to read a text that I have heard four times from the cabinet and which you have apparently been given to have this debate, including on behalf of the cabinet, surprises me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u192	Mr President, I object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u193	We did ask questions about El Bakraoui and about the reconstruction, but that was about the fact that mailboxes were not read at the weekend, that phone calls were not recorded, that the basis was not in order. Now there are all sensible people, including the Council of State, who say: pay attention to this law; make sure, for example, that it does not become a kind of approval system in which no one is critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u194	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u195	That is, of course, a very serious point to take. We absolutely need to look at that. The CDA could look at that, couldn't it? Isn't the CDA afraid that this law will go beyond its purpose? Isn't the CDA afraid that this law is counterproductive? Isn't the CDA afraid that supervision is a wash nose? Surely there can be one critical question from the CDA Group? We don't have to play the game who does the most for safety, do we? I'm also in charge of security, just the way D66 wants me to. We can have a substantive debate, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u196	We can certainly have a substantive debate. I have certainly answered a number of questions. We have asked questions about the supervision of the TIB to the Minister. We have also asked how the CTIVD is in it. The Dessens Committee has also said that there is tension between security and privacy. We choose very clearly here, also to the people at home. If there is still a bit of doubt somewhere; at the moment, given what the world is like, we are very clear about safety. Mr Verhoeven can say that the CDA is not critical enough. The CDA is critical enough. Perhaps today we prefer security and a little less privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u197	You were ready, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u198	Yes, I was answering Mr Verhoeven's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u199	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group. The emotions are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u200	Mr. Chairman. This week, when I was preparing this debate, I found out that I would have gone mad if I had been in a quiz last week and I had been asked when the first security service was set up. I would have dated that somewhere in the nineteenth century. So that's a huge mistake, because the first security service dates back to June 1945: the National Security Office. Four years later, this was followed up by the Homeland Security Service (BVD). In 2002, it was converted into the current General Intelligence and Security Service. I'm not gonna tell you the whole story because I'm gonna leave the military security services out for a while. They date back a little earlier, namely from before the First World War. From the outset, the question of how far the task of this service can or should be accomplished has been discussed. I came across a beautiful quote from Minister Teulings from 1949, when the National Security Office was converted into the Homeland Security Office. I thought it would be nice to present that quote. Teulings was Minister of the Interior, thus the predecessor of the current minister. A quote. The undersigned questions whether a service such as the Homeland Security Service will ever enjoy popularity. Such services are a necessary evil, with emphasis on "needs." As long as powers in the world are engaged in unsavory means to undermine the foundations of our democratic rule of law, the government will need to have a device to identify subversive activities in good time. The undersigned considers that such a device, which by the nature of its activity can never be made public, would be capable of meeting general sympathy. In the meantime, the undersigned would like to pay particular attention to the work of the service so that it remains in line with his mission and objective. He is aware that large groups from all sections of the population are working wholeheartedly with the BVD, convinced if they are convinced of the need to join forces to combat attacks on Christianity and democracy. I could easily imagine that I have now mowed some grass at the feet of the current Minister of the Interior, because when we talk about the AIVD and the STUDY, it is still the same at heart. Such a provision is a necessary evil, with the emphasis on "needs." They're working in secret. This is inevitable and inextricably linked to the nature of the institution. Monitoring the task and objective of the resources deployed is and will continue to be essential. The forces that seek to undermine the rule of law or damage our security are still there. What is also striking to me is that the fight against attacks on Christianity and democracy has become very topical, particularly when we look at where the recent terrorist threat comes from. In 2017, there are indeed no-nonsense forces that are doing their utmost to undermine the stability of the Christian West. As much as you can discuss the Christian content of our society, it is clear that it is rooted in Christianity. Let's cherish and protect that. This civilisation must be protected from the radical and terrorist attacks, especially from the extremist-Islamic angle. Especially after 11 September 2001, this task has only gained in value and intensity. The current law is obsolete. The Dessens Committee rightly pointed out in 2013 that technological developments call for new powers. Anyone who goes through the gloomy reactions to this bill almost gets the impression that if this bill goes through, the Netherlands will become a sort of police state of North Korean allure. But if you let the bill get through to you well, you will see that protecting public security and protecting citizens' private lives and privacy go hand in hand. The extent to which privacy is infringed will increase as the threat of public security is increased. The SGP does not believe in an all-controlling state, but it does not believe in the absolute inviolability of individual privacy. As far as we are concerned, there are three important principles that play a role in the assessment of this legislative proposal. Firstly, the purpose of intelligence must be clear: security, the protection of the democratic legal order or other interests of the State or the community. Secondly, a slightly different application of the concept of proportionality. The least extreme agent should be used. It must also be proportionate to the intended result. Thirdly, the recognition that far-reaching infringements are sometimes necessary and acceptable, as long as sufficient counterpower and adequate supervision are organised. The SGP has the impression that this bill provides a good, updated basis for the intelligence work of the coming period, on the basis of what I have just said, a good balance between public security on the one hand and citizens' privacy on the other. The question of whether you are for privacy or security is far too simple. One declares privacy sacred as long as there are no concrete risks. But at the time of an attack, security is declared sacred. Then the immediate question arises as to why the security services did not recognise this danger in good time. Based on a realistic world view, the SGP assumes that man is inclined to all evil. By the way, that is also a very biblical notion. Anyone who realizes that also understands that people are doing everything they can to hide their evils, so that they can now go their own way. This calls for far-reaching powers that have been well and carefully invested. The government, as the SGP confesses on the basis of the Bible, has been given to us to protect us from the evils of attacks and from undermining society. That is why the role of the government in the field of security is very important to us. Necessary, the AIVD and the STIVD are about the use of secret powers. Therefore, proper safeguards are needed to monitor how the use of these powers takes place. That is one of the starting points I have already mentioned. Power always wants more. Power can corrupt very quickly. Society therefore deserves good protection against abuse of power. In doing so, we must be careful not to make the law so powerless that it is actually an impossible horde to be able to protect security. We are talking about unprecedented and unknown threats that could endanger national security. I will conclude with a number of specific questions on the basis of the detailed written documents. The first question concerns the supervisory structure. I ask the Minister to reflect on the following statement. This law has brought the possibilities and powers of the AIVD and the STUDY into line with what the 21st century requires, but the supervisory structure is still based on the possibilities and responsibilities of the 20th century. In other words, does the CTIVD have sufficient resources to carry out checks, whether or not in combination with the already mentioned TIB? After all, the law stands or falls with proper supervision to prevent abuse by the security services. The second question concerns steering. Other stakeholders, in addition to the CTIVD, include the coordinator and the United Intelligence Services Committee Netherlands, the CVIN. The coordinator shall be General Affairs and shall be the chairman of the CVIN. Is the involvement of the most important ministries in this area exactly as envisaged by the Dessens Commission? The third point concerns craftsmanship. The SGP considers it important that the security services are not primarily distrustful, but that there is confidence that they really want to carry out their work in accordance with the law. It is precisely that ex ante review that can only confirm that. However, it must be avoided that this review is carried out in such a way that the speed of action is removed and risk intercepting is made more difficult. What is being done to increase speed so that this monitoring is not at the expense of the quality of the intelligence work? The fourth question concerns access to chat services. The head of the AIVD recently indicated in an interview that it is necessary to break the encryption of chat services such as WhatsApp and Telegram when there are risks. It should be avoided that certain media are specifically suitable for communication between terrorists, because there is no or little access to them. Is the Minister prepared to look again closely at whether the proposal before us offers sufficient possibilities for the break-up of encryption? Isn't under the guise of the importance of encryption not unintentionally facilitating terrorism? My final question concerns the prevention of misuse. After all, it is important that information is lawfully obtained. There has been the necessary discussion about the use of research assignment-oriented interception, also called the dragnet approach. The SGP likes to hear from the minister how the supervisors can monitor in concrete terms that the data that is used as a by-catch of a research assignment is actually destroyed. Is it guaranteed that this information will not actually be used without the Minister's consent and the TIB's approval? And if so, how? The effectiveness of the work of the intelligence and security services must go hand in hand with sufficient legal guarantees and citizens' confidence that the powers that exist are exercised carefully. Our impression is that this proposal strikes a good balance between the right to privacy on the one hand and the right to the protection and security of public space on the other. We look forward to the mayor's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u201	Did I hear that right? You're looking forward to the mayor's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u202	Luckily, I have nine seconds left. I sincerely apologize. I was in councilman's mode. I look forward to the response of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u203	Mr. Chairman. Citizens sometimes complain that the government doesn't listen to them, but the government does. The government's bugging its citizens. Sometimes that's necessary. Previously, she only did so on an individual level, with someone who was suspected of something. Now the government's gonna do that at a bulk level, an entire neighborhood, an entire city, anyone who uses "Allah" in his e-mail. One of the letters put it very nicely and critically: the new law on intelligence and security services is more a threat to the democratic rule of law and security than it contributes to it. That is actually Trumpian policy: over-the-top measures against terrorism affecting the entire population. This is carried out by the VVD and the PvdA, with the support of a number of other parties. Calling Donald Trump a danger, but introducing Trumpian policy in the Netherlands: that is the well-known double measure. Amnesty International is critical. The Council of State is critical. The Dutch order of lawyers is critical. The Commission for the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services is critical. Leiden University is critical. KPN's critical. The University of Amsterdam is critical. TNO is critical. The Human Rights College is critical. Bits of Freedom is critical. Vodafone is critical. Tele2 is critical. SURF, the higher education cooperation organisation, is critical. Microsoft is critical. PowerDNS is critical. Greenpeace is critical. Telecom provider Voice is critical. Privacy First is critical. Datacenter BIT, you already guessed it, is critical. Google is critical. Speakup is critical. Privacy International is critical. Privacy Barometer is critical. Stichting Vrijzicht is critical. The Study Committee on Journalism Source Protection is critical. T-Mobile is critical. BCPA is critical. VNO-NCW is critical. SME-Netherlands is critical. Internet Society The Netherlands is critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u204	Mrs. Tellegen, are you also critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u205	No, if you have listened to my speech, you know that I have been accused of doing so. I wondered how much time Mr Kuzu had and what he himself thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u206	He had ten minutes of speaking time. He's in charge of this himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mrs. Tellegen needs to be patient. It's coming. I have made this list to show that not only these organisations, but also thousands of people, who have also e-mailed Mrs Tellegen, are critical of the legislative proposal before us. We are representatives of the people. We must also ensure that these noises are taken seriously here in Parliament. That is why I give this list. A lot of organisations, a lot of citizens are critical. The PvdA, the VVD and in particular Minister Asscher are also critical. They are critical of all these organizations that are critical. Minister Asscher calls all parties and organisations that are critical "naïve." But who is naive here, all these organizations or Minister Asscher? If, with one gesture, you throw away the criticism of all these organizations as naive, aren't you really naive? Is it naive to trust the government and the security services without a hitch? Isn't it naive to assume a good government that operates in a good way? Is it not naive to think that two judges and one expert can adequately supervise the security services? Isn't it naive to think that you can stop the people who really want evil this way? This is often the case with policy. The policy is behind the facts. We all know it: criminals and people who want badly adapt. Criminals and terrorists are often one step ahead of the government, unfortunately. Then you sacrifice the privacy of all the Dutch and then that attack comes.I hope it never comes later. Then the Netherlands bears a double loss. The PvdA and Minister Asscher will not listen to the citizens. Minister Asscher wants to eavesdrop on civilians. It's no wonder the PvdA gets punished by the voters like that. Whoever they don't listen to at the PvdA is their own group specialist, Astrid Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u208	We're back on the PvdA bashen airtime. It's possible. But actually that's a shame, because I'm actually curious about what DENK thinks. Actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u209	We don't know any DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u210	No. That's true. Anyway, that's a formal answer. I know it in a different way. In fact, Mr Kuzu says: let it go, because this law is not going to help. So as far as the Kuzu/Öztürk Group is concerned, I understand that nothing should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u211	Something must certainly be done to combat terrorism, radicalisation and so on. We have also supported a large part of the approach proposed by this cabinet. But in this section there is a balance between privacy and the fight against terrorism. We have made a careful assessment of this. We see that this proposal, on the basis of which surgery will be carried out with the creation of bulk information, will unfortunately not make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u212	Then I wonder who's naive. This is not just about terrorism of IS at all. This is about hacking by Russian security forces and China and espionage. It's about a lot more. And DENK says, "Let it happen," because we don't like the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u213	This is the transmission time "framing of the PvdA." Mr Recourt also knows that this is not working. It is indeed a broad subject. I am now talking about the part of bulk information gathering and I would like to mention the organisations that have been critical of this. Of course, there are parts of the bill that make sense, but I am talking here about the well-known part of dragging information. Mr Recourt is well aware of what he is talking about, because he is in the group with Mrs Oosenbrug. In an extensive article, I believe, the Volkskrant showed her exactly what is wrong with the bill. Mrs Oosenbrug knows, as one of the few Members of Parliament, how taps work in practice and how they work technically. What does the technical specialist of the PvdA think of the bill? She's gonna vote against it, so she's already announced. The specialist says no, but Mr Recourt, the PvdA continues. Why doesn't he listen to his own Astrid Oosen Bridge? Has there ever been a bill on which there has been so much and so wide-ranging criticism? I've rarely seen it. We are not talking about a law without a chance, we are talking about a bill that is probably going to make it in the House of Representatives. That is a sad observation. The parties that are going to vote in favour really have to blame themselves for putting a big finger on all those organizations and people I just named and for raising a big finger on society. The new law works like a dragnet of data. Everything will be taken into account. Not only is it the single potential terrorist, but millions of citizens are being tapped. DENK is against that surveillance dragnet anyway. In addition, we are particularly concerned that the towing network is being used specifically against certain groups, with which there will be some sort of online ethnic profile, that the services are going to focus on a number of minorities, that anyone who mails Allah is suspected, that anyone who finds Black Pete discriminatory is suspect and that anyone who may have strong criticism of the government in the future is suspect. Ethnic profiling, not only on the street but also on the internet: we are going backwards in the Netherlands instead of ahead and it is not "together forward" but "lonely backward." I'm finishing with an anecdote by the writer Maxim February. He talks about a debate in which he participated: "You're working at the University of Tilburg," said the speaker next to me on stage. "No," I said. "I don't work at Tilburg University." "But it's on the Internet," he said indignantly. "Yes," I said. "And yet it is not so." "But it was also in the announcement for this debate," he tried. "Yes," I said. "That came from the Internet." "But it isn't?" He asked me just in case. "No," I said. "So it's not like that." On the Internet, it's not just full of fake news; it's also full of fake facts. Those fake facts will be collected through the Plasterk and Hennis surveillance dragnet. Those fake facts will also make it possible for innocent people to be arrested. I would like to ask the government if it can take that care away. If you can't even tell fake news from real news, how can you tell what is or isn't a real threat? That is why we say to these ministers: stop this attack on our Dutch freedoms. Throw away that Trumpian dragnet. Dare to think differently. Dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u214	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u215	Madam President. We are here with both of us, because the Intelligence and Security Services Act applies to both services, the AIVD and the STPD. By the way, that is something we attach great importance to: that we operate within the same legal framework. This is also in order to prevent strategic behaviour from arising, that one service may be different from the other, and that this could shift the tasks. So that's an important fact, and we'll both answer the same way. I suggest that I do the answer as follows. After a brief introduction, I will discuss six themes. I will list them in such a way that they all relate to an amendment to the new law in relation to the old law. Before I mention them, I would like to point out that there have also been issues raised in the discussions on which the law does not actually change. We can, of course, always talk about the way the law works as a result of this event, but on some of these points there is no new law in itself. So I'm dealing with six topics. To get in, I thought I'd start with my old field of expertise, the DNA research. First of all, I will talk about DNA databases, which are new to the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Secondly, I specifically address attorney-client interactions and source protection in journalists. Thirdly, I would like to address the need to replace the technical dependence of the current law on cable and ether with technical independence, and the whole debate that relates to it. The fourth block is international cooperation. The fifth block is about the retention periods. Sixthly, I will deal with supervision, i.e. the role of the TIB, which is new in the current law, in relation to the CTIVD, and the relationship with Parliament. Finally, I intended to discuss the amendments specifically in the second period, together with the motions that might be tabled. I will, of course, deal with the issues involved, but I will deal with the whole list in the second term. And, of course, after the six specific issues, I will answer all the remaining questions in the order of the speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u216	Everyone thought it was a little too much, but we just talked about 75% of the time about the focus or the unfocusedness of the research assignment and about the dragnet. I don't see these subjects in the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u217	Yes, that's the third issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u218	Technology independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u219	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u220	The amendments will not be dealt with until the second deadline. Is it perhaps an idea to get a written response to the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u221	I don't think that's a problem in itself. I'm going to take a look at A, because that would have to be organized. I would like to begin by discussing the substance of the matter and not expressing the opinion on the amendments in advance. After that, I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u222	I should like to comment on the last point. Then the written response to the amendments must be there as soon as possible, preferably before Tuesday, because then the votes will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u223	I understand that we would prefer to have the views in writing this evening, for example after the first deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u224	Yeah, exactly. I'd like it if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u225	Then we speak the same language. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u226	This is considered a service order from box K. Mr. Chairman. A lot of words have already been exchanged today. That is why I would like to be a little brief, but I would like to emphasise the importance of the work at all. If you consider the recent threats to our security, it's malware, hacks, terrorist attacks or the security of our men and women on a military mission somewhere. The Secretary of Defense will return to that last point. Often the most important and sometimes even only weapon against these threats is that you can stop them by seeing them arrive in advance. If someone is willing to drive a truck into a crowd of people, such as recently in Berlin, you can no longer properly protect people from it when that happens. So the only weapon we have is the so-called combination of intention and potential, so the intention to do something and the ability to do so. The combination of these two is a crucial task in protecting the security of our society. There is a lot of talk in the Chamber about a wide range of public services. The first task in any form of society is, of course, to ensure the safety of the group, of the country, as much as possible. By the way, I believe that everyone shares that. This requires information. As this can often lead to an infringement of private life, the collection of this information can only take place if there is a legal basis for it. That is why it is right and proper that this should be discussed extensively. I am therefore grateful to the Chamber that it has taken up a great deal of space for this in its busy agenda. As I have just said, the new law now before us is in many respects no different from the current law on intelligence and security services. That also says something about the current law. It was conceived and created twenty years ago and finally published in the Official Journal in 2002. That was at a time when mobile telephony, if there was one, was still using large satellite phones. Today everyone has something in their pocket that can do more than the computer we had on our desk 20 years ago. So that law doesn't take into account its potential at all. That is why, at the start of this cabinet period, the Research Committee-Dessens was instructed to evaluate the current law. That committee came up with the advice to eliminate the difference existing in the current law between the collection of information via the ether, via satellite, and the collection of information via cable. Several Members have already said in the first term that this was perhaps a rational difference at the time, but that today every telephone call goes straight into the ground on the first street corner. If you can't access that, you're actually trying to serve safety with one hand behind your back. That was the advice of the Dessens Committee. We discussed this in the Chamber and then we started the legislative process. For the most fundamental point, which was my third point, namely the lifting of technical independence in the bulk collection of information.... is broad support, not only from the Dessens Committee that we set up at that time, but also from the CTIVD, our supervisor, and from the Council of State. When we spoke about this on an earlier occasion, there was also support for this from a rather large majority in the House of Representatives. I close my introduction by saying that you can talk for so long about all details and privacy sometimes it's very important details or even key issues, but in the end nothing is as big an invasion of your privacy as when you go somewhere with your family and don't come back, if you're not safe somewhere. That is what we all see when we deal with this law. I'm moving on to the happy subject of the DNA database. During this period there was a situation in which we did something that was rightly judged unlawful by the supervisory authority. The first time I got the judgment that something was illegal, it scared the shit out of me. I thought, "What the hell?" We're not doing anything illegal, are we? But in itself, this is the way it's supposed to function. We have a law that states in general terms what is allowed and what is not allowed. Then the technique develops. The services seek, to the best of their knowledge, to deal with a new situation within the general terms of the law. And then it happens that a supervisor says: it may be useful and necessary, but it is not something that the law allows, so it is unlawful. Objects were seized in buildings that had previously been occupied by people we knew were involved in jihadist activities. Think about coffee cups and stuff like that. They were kept for the purpose of being able to identify when someone might blow up somewhere. Then you could reconstruct if it was perhaps the one who had been in the safe house before. The basis for this is Article 22 of the current Intelligence and Security Services Act: the service may collect objects for the purpose of establishing identity. There's no mention of DNA testing, because 20 years ago, you were able to identify identities through a physical fingerprint and maybe through hair traces. The supervisor said, of course, it's the intention to derive DNA traces from it, so we can put it under the scope of Article 22. However, it may only be for the purpose of establishing the identity and you must do so. Only save for future situations that may or may not arise, there is no legal basis for this. The supervisor said: you should amend the law. That would be very wise, but then it should include retention periods; only then can we check whether it has been done properly according to the law. However, for this breach of privacy the legal basis was missing and we had to destroy the material. We did. It's been destroyed. Words, of course, have great effects. It was the opening of the newspaper: illegal DNA database of Dutch citizens. This was the situation. We have solved this in the new law by means of an article which says that the material can be stored for a maximum of six months and must be destroyed afterwards. If a DNA profile is derived from it, it may be stored for longer. The object is gone. As practice shows that it can remain useful for a long time, it may be kept for five years. In addition, there are possibilities for extension in the law. This is an example of how it can work well in itself. The supervisor says you've acted with the best of intentions. The intentions are always good; the services are very precise and legal, and try to keep to everything. A new situation had arisen. The services thought: we think this is wise to do. And then it happens so often that the supervisor says: we have looked at it again, but this is still illegal. Then you either have to stop or you have to change the law. Maybe you can come up with something else. So that will continue to happen in the future. It will also be important if I come back to other subjects in a moment. With your permission, I will conclude with the first subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u227	I think it was right that the Minister was shocked when he heard it was unlawful. Unrighteous simply means "in violation of the law." So that is something you, as a minister or other politician, have to be alarmed about. I don't think the Minister's statement is very good. I would very much like him to comment on TNO's response, which indicates that there is no need for a completely separate database.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u228	It is extremely useful and necessary that the possibility be incorporated into the law to secure, if there has been a terrorist somewhere, the material with which he has been in contact. If he attacks another city in Europe in three months' time and remains of those involved are found, let's assume a suicide attack. It's important that we can reconstruct the story. This could help to track other people from the same group and see if all the threats have disappeared or if there are any new threats. I think it is very useful and necessary for this to happen. And again, I gave you my first reaction when I heard the word "unrighteous." That was the same as Mrs. Voortman's. I'm gonna keep that up, too. Of course, it is the intention to do everything right. However, the law aims to be technologically independent, allowing it to last another five, ten or twenty years. So that law doesn't regulate everything in detail. It's called lawmaking with lawyers. That's legal form. It means that the supervisory authority occasionally says: we weigh it up again and we think that you have stretched Article 22, namely the collection of objects to identify them, too far by keeping those coffee mugs for more than six months; you should not have done that on the basis of Article 22. The supervisor's there for a reason. Then you have to destroy that material.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u229	I repeat my question and refer to TNO's response to this. Is it necessary to have a separate database? That was my question and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u230	The answer is yes. Of course, there's no other way. What if there were people in a house in The Hague? They're out of there. There's reason to think they're dangerous people who have terrorist intentions. If they occur again somewhere in the world, it may be useful to know if the DNA trace we have here is the same as the DNA trace of the data subjects elsewhere. That is useful and necessary. The second subject concerns two situations which deserve additional protection and are therefore separate in the law. The first is the interaction between lawyers and clients. The fact that privacy is extra guaranteed is important for a proper course of justice. The second is protecting the source by journalists. This should ensure that, in the interests of freedom of the press, not only can the service, with the agreement of the minister, seek to find a source through a journalist. Both subjects have a long history. The latter has a painful past, because many years ago journalists were held hostage by the government because they refused to reveal their source. The European Court of Justice has said of both situations that it is not absolutely impossible to infringe the legal-client interactions, or that special means are being used to identify the source of a journalist. However, it is such a serious step that this can only be done if the Hague court gives its prior consent separately. So apart from all the other things, at the TIB, that we're going to talk about later, for those two categories an exception has been made in the current law. In the first period, the question was asked as to why these two situations are not dealt with in the same way. The answer is actually in the motivation I just gave. The situation is not the same. In the case of the attorney-client interactions, it is the interaction itself that deserves additional protection. That's just the secrecy of legal protection that a person can get in a state of law. In the interaction between a journalist and a source, what deserves additional protection is that that journalist cannot be used as an entry point to track down terrorists or to find out who his source might have been via a tap on that journalist. The other way around, of course, that doesn't matter. If you have a target in mind because it can't be otherwise, it's subsidiary to other means and it's proportional to tap, then it's just the fact that that target is going to call a journalist, not suddenly a reason to stop the tap. You already had that person in your sights, so you're not trying to find a source. You'll be legitimate in treating a target the way we'd do it with every target. That's why we've incorporated them both into the law, but in a different way. There is a second reason, by the way. That is why both professions are distinguishable, but only the group of lawyers is quite easy to identify. That's just a profession with a fixed list. You can also try filtering it from a large dataset by name or by phone number. For journalists, who have been discussed in the first term, we use the professional definition used by the Dutch Association of Journalists. This is also stated in the paper on the report. I refer to that, because it is a clear definition. However, it is not a exhaustive list and that means that you have to assess on a case-by-case basis whether or not someone is a journalist. So there is also practical reason to have different treatment. Especially with large data sets you can easily filter the lawyers out. But if you have a target in mind that calls at some point with someone who is involved in journalism, you can't just know in advance that it's a journalist. Mr. President, I'm gonna take a breath. Hence the silence. I thought I had given the answer on the issue of the lawyers and the journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u231	When you are done with that, I can give the floor to Mr Van Raak, who was already standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u232	I have tabled an amendment on this point because I believe that journalists should not be approached by secret services. The work of someone working for the secret service is very important to our rule of law, but so different from the work of a journalist that it is almost the opposite of each other. I therefore attach great importance to the fact that journalists will no longer be approached as agents in the future. Could the minister go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u233	I would advise against it, because that approach naturally involves voluntaryness. People are there when they decide whether they want to play that role. It may be useful for national security that an attempt is made to recruit someone in that role, for example when he keeps a weblog so professionally that he is covered by the definition of journalist. So I wouldn't want to rule it out in advance. In this case, it is a question of volunteering on the part of the journalist. If professional ethics is shown, it is up to the person concerned to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u234	There are other interests too. If a journalist or an aid worker abroad, especially in a war zone, is revealed, other journalists and other aid workers are also at risk. I would also find it quite remarkable to see a journalist in the Dutch media explain the news if he is at the same time an agent of the secret services. You'd expect someone like that to be independent. That's rubbing. I think that first one is simply undesirable because it puts people at risk. I also find it strange that the profession has not yet spoken out against this. But in that second case too, the Minister has to admit that it is sanding. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u235	I'm just gonna take a walk. When I was just on this job, I was faced with a problem and I said to the head of the AIVD: this is sanding, because it has something secretly what we are doing now. Then he said: Minister, everything we do has something secretly; it is the nature of the work of a secret service to operate in secrecy. Yeah, that's rubbing. But it also rubs when someone thinks that he is talking to his mental caregiver, his psychiatrist or any other professional group and the person concerned is an informant who is providing information about someone planning an attack in the interests of national security and because it is necessary and proportionate. Well, that'll rub, but it's the only way we can do that. Someone can be a spiritual caretaker, yoga teacher or otherwise a confidant and get information in that role that someone is planning an attack. Well, then I'm happy if he's willing to share that information with the Secret Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u236	There really is a difference between a yoga teacher and a journalist. Journalists have a public task in our society, just as a secret service has a public task. Secret services must ensure that things do not become public, otherwise they cannot do their job. Journalists have a duty to make things public, otherwise they can't do their job. Well, then it's weird that a journalist is employed by a secret service on a detour. Those two tasks cannot be reconciled. Both are important in a rule of law, but not at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u237	The same goes for a priest, a mental caretaker or a psychiatrist. These people all have important tasks in a rule of law. If that is subsidiary to other efforts, so if that information cannot be collected in any other way, it may be useful and necessary for an imam to say "I now have a customer who intends to commit an attack" and that he is willing to share that information voluntarily. Someone can be professional journalism active for any medium anywhere in the world. Then maybe I'm not talking about the newspapers we read. It may be important that he is prepared to share information with the services. I would like to close this second block and move on to the third issue, namely the need to eliminate the technical dependence that now exists in the law when it comes to gathering bulk information. I would add that we are doing nothing but our neighbouring countries, with which we work intensively. In the field of counter-terrorism, for example, the AIVD works together with Germany, France, England and Sweden, all of which make that cable-dependent bulk interception legally possible. Of course, it applies a fortiori to military missions. Allies often go somewhere together from the beginning and want to guarantee the safety of their staff by gathering information. We are already gathering in bulk off the coast of Somalia via the air; the Secretary of Defense can tell us much more about it. That is very useful, because we then map out in advance where potential threats are. There too, however, more and more people are walking around with a mobile phone. On the street corner it goes into the cable and according to the law you are not allowed anymore. That is why it is very important to do so. When we started this process, I asked the AIVD to give me an example of a bulk collection which is not allowed now and which would be useful. Let me give you that example. Let's say we want to identify more Syrians. People go from here to Syria, participate in the jihadist struggle, come back and are, messed up when they are now, willing and perhaps able to make attacks here. For example, you can take a closer look at the traffic between the people here and the people who are active there and collect only metadata for a month: what number in the Netherlands calls with which number in Syria at what time? That's phase one. Ministerial consent must be given to this. You have to justify that it is necessary for national security and that you cannot collect that information in any other way. It must therefore be subsidiary to other means and it must be proportionate. In a moment we will come back to the question of what is proportional. In phase two, for which once again ministerial consent is required, you have all that data and you put it next to a list of known mobile numbers of known Syrians. While you map that, you can see that they are calling each other and calling with a few buddies they know here, but you can also see that the familiar songs are all calling with a song you haven't seen before. That's where phase two stops. We don't know anymore. It could be a facilitator, or someone who acts as a spider in the web of terrorist interactions, but it could also be the pizza baker on the corner. Then we'll move on to phase three. At that stage, we are putting a specific tap on it, in fact traditionally, as it should be under the old law. It must also be necessary and proportionate on the basis of the new law. Then we will see if it is indeed someone who is part of the network. Possibilities to get new targets in view via networks do exist when the communication goes through the ether, but not when it goes through the cable. Similar examples are also worked out in the documents, such as the capture of malware, when it comes to cybercrime, or the mapping of hostile activities in military areas. In the example given, and therefore also in the case of the law as it stands at present, it is not necessary, not useful and not wise to go about collecting just, unfocused. It was quoted in the first term from American research. In that study it was said that the mere collection of information is not right, that you should not want it and that this is not necessary. Reference has also been made to statements made by my predecessor Hirsch Ballin; Mr Van Raak has drawn attention to this before, and I replied to it at that time. The simple collection of information took place shortly after 9/11 in the United States. Then there was indeed a wave to gather everything. Save all the Internet interactions, because you never know what it's good for. In this context, I refer to the PRISM programme. The latter is not what we propose. We suggest that it should be related to a research assignment. The use of this bulk of information should be necessary for national security. You shouldn't be able to collect that information in any other way. That commitment must be proportionate to the goal you want to achieve. The question is, of course, what is proportional and how do we define it? In the first term, I was challenged to do so. We have already said on the cabinet side that listening to all telephone calls in a city in the Netherlands is no longer proportionate. That could serve any purpose. This might be interesting for any research and therefore not specifically for any research. And with that it is not research assignment related. If you would like to peel off exactly where the border is, I think you're falling into the trap of making the law again technologically dependent, which means that you can limit the years that we can continue with it very much. Then we are going to fill in this whole technique again, and I come to talk about things that are on the human body, and that seems unwise to me. There should be no misunderstanding that it should be really related to a research assignment. The services, which are also very handsome lawyers who help to complete an assignment, are ultimately burdened with a draft burden, a task assigned to them by one of the two ministers. That minister is there himself. That minister, who works on the basis of the trust of the House of Representatives, therefore we are sitting here assessing whether the assignment is indeed proportionate and can then have it carried out. We have now added that that is new, I will come back to it so separately that that test is also repeated by an independent body in advance. That body checks whether the investigation is indeed necessary and proportionate. Moreover, it remains the case that the supervisor can see what practice is emerging. On the basis of this, she can say about a specific study: we see it as such, but I think it is just the example of the coffee cups that I have just mentioned, which gives you too broad an explanation of the legal limits that we see. Well, then that's a big advice. Let me answer in one breath the question about the role of Parliament. The question of how this is done is indeed interesting. I think that is what Mrs Schouten and Mrs Tellegen were asking for. What scenarios are there? Suppose the minister does something and the supervisor says the minister shouldn't. The supervisor then produces a public report, often, or always, with a secret attachment for the CIVD, which then knows exactly all the details. Then you actually have two options. It is possible that will usually be the practice that the minister says: we have heard you correctly, we stop or we do it differently, in a different way, because the supervisor has spoken. However, it may theoretically also be that the Minister says: yes, but I am responsible for national security, and I think this is of the utmost importance, and I believe that this is a matter of legality as it stands in the current law, and I am confronting Parliament with it. That would be confidential section of parliament, the CIVD. It may be that Minister says he has seen the supervisory report, but he believes that this should be done in relation to national security and that it is also legitimate that it should be done. If then the parliament, so the CIVD, says that the minister should not do so, he should still commit or resign. In this case, I think that would mean saying to the president of the CIVD: I can't say why. If the equivalent of a majority in the CIVD loses faith in the minister, he must of course resign there. I think those are the scenarios. Parliament's control is therefore complete, but it is to some extent a matter of confidentiality. It could therefore in theory have never happened that the minister in the CIVD loses the confidence of a majority of the Chamber and then has to quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u238	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u239	I thought so. I'm gonna take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u240	It's okay. I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u241	That's the most serious scenario the CIVD's gonna give up trust. Thank you for sketching this scenario. Is it secured that the Minister actually goes to the CIVD to submit that? I think, but correct me if I'm wrong, the Minister now decides whether it's legitimate or not and whether he wants to go through with it or not, and doesn't have a duty to submit it to Parliament. Parliament does not need to know immediately whether this is between the CTIVD and the minister. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u242	The CTIVD, the supervisor, can send a report to the Minister and the Minister must send it to the Chamber, possibly accompanied by a policy response. He cannot wait endlessly for that, so he must, as soon as he can reasonably, provide a policy response and then send it to the Chamber. That happens in public, so the Chamber knows about it. It could be an extremely thin letter because reference is made to an annex going to the CIVD. There it can then be more extensive boning. It is therefore impossible for things to happen outside the scope of the Chamber that the supervisor believes should not happen. Of course, in the CIVD, at least in its present form, the group chairmen of most parties from the Chamber are present, and these are not for a small amount. They know damn well whether they think something should be raised, yes or no. That's their assessment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u243	Sure. They can do it themselves, and that's good. So the Chamber is immediately informed by the CTIVD when a report is sent to the Minister? I fully trust this minister. Suppose, however, that there is another minister who is of evil will, who leaves such a report in the drawer for a month and that in the meantime everything continues, while the CTIVD has sent such a signal. So the Chamber always knows that the CTIVD gives a certain advice to the Minister, and so the Minister must give his reaction immediately and send it directly to the Chamber at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u244	At this point, the law doesn't change from what he was like. The Minister must indeed provide a CTIVD report with a policy response as soon as he can reasonably do so and send it to the Chamber. This does not necessarily have to be immediate, as it may be that he should, for example, take a look at it with a colleague from another department who is under the same regime or that he should understand himself with the services about how this advice is to be implemented, whether it is possible and how it needs to be responded to. That may take a while, but not endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u245	So the Chamber knows? The room doesn't have to go down there and guess? That's my jumping point. The Chamber is therefore not dependent on the Minister indicating that he has received such a report from the CTIVD, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u246	The Minister is obliged, once he has received that report, to provide that with a policy response and then send it to the Chamber. In general, these investigations are already being carried out on communication from the CTIVD, i.e. an investigation is taking place. It also happened at the request of the House of Representatives, so she knows even before the report is there that it will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u247	I agree with Mrs Schouten that we can trust ministers Plasterk and Hennis-Plasschaert. But we also make laws for the future. I would like to thank the ministers for the new word'research-oriented'. That'll do well on the scrabble boards. But no one knows what it is. These can be all kinds of investigations, they can be all kinds of assignments and they can go in all kinds of directions. The Minister then says: yes, but that's okay, because it's well controlled, it's monitored. But with that same supervisor, the CTIVD, they say they can't supervise at the moment. It is said that many more criteria need to be included in the law on the use of powers precisely in order to ensure that they are as targeted as possible. It is precisely with the supervisor that they say that this law on that point is not in order enough to allow them to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u248	That is a bit ahead of the role of the supervisor. But come on, let me get that for you. It'll just get a little messed up. Yeah, I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u249	I see Mr Van Raak protesting. Perhaps you could explain your question, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u250	At the supervisor's office, they say that law isn't good enough. There they say that with this law they cannot supervise properly enough. They say that it should be included in that law that the use of powers should be as focused as possible. That is what they call the fourth criterion. They say that's what they need, just to do this. They need it to be able to fill in the, still empty, word "research-oriented" in order to give direction to those investigations and those assignments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u251	The present bill states that this commitment is necessary for national security, that it must add something to the other means available, that it must be subsidiary and that it must be proportionate. This means that this commitment should not exceed what is necessary to answer those research questions. That's where the focus is. That "as limited as possible" is already in the government's view. What I do not want is for us to add an additional criterion which, in fact, in the eyes of the government, is determined in that proportionality. I believe that Mr Recourt also pointed this out in his first term. It must therefore be useful and necessary and proportionate to what you want to achieve. That's what he's in. So I have no difficulty in saying that 'it is as focused as possible' is another way of putting it. After all, you should not do things that are not necessary; that is already in the necessity test. However, I would find it difficult for us to include it in the same law side by side, because then it would be as if you had two different review frameworks. Then I foresee that it will be said in the future: it is targeted enough, but not necessary. Or that is said: it is necessary, but not targeted enough. It must be in this combination of necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality that something does not happen that is not necessary and that is not targeted enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u252	I like that the Minister says it's in the law, or that it's implicitly in the law. But the minister shouldn't be supervising. And the supervisor himself says it's just not in the law. The supervisory authority says that the current legal text does not allow proper supervision there. I attach much more importance to the words of the supervisory authority, which must be monitored, than to the words of the ministers. The supervisor asks this to be able to do his job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u253	Now Mr Van Raak is failing himself. We all have our place in this order. The regulator must supervise and the legislator must pass laws. The legislative power is gathered here: in the Lower House, for a piece in Vak-K, and perhaps at some point also on the other side in the Upper Chamber. We end up making those laws. It is the supervisory authority's job to carry out what is in it. Following a question from Mr Recourt, I will come straight to those points which we have not fully taken up from the CTIVD's view. Yes, there are. But it's possible. If, therefore, the supervisor tells us that we are not supposed to do something and that it is illegal to talk about that scenario, we have just talked about it, then a lot must be done before the Minister says to his service: just do it anyway. He must at least justify that in Parliament. If he said that, I think that would lead to big chunks. When it comes to legislation, it is of course interesting to hear the views of the supervisor, as it is also interesting to hear the views of, for example, the Personal Data Authority, the Human Rights College and all kinds of other bodies. But we are ultimately the ones who decide what the review framework is that will be in the law. This is a point on which I say: I believe that this focus lies in proportionality, subsidiarity and necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u254	The supervisor can only find something unlawful if it violates the law. As regards the wording in the legislative proposal, the supervisor says and several Members of Parliament present here say: it is not targeted enough. They say: in this way it is possible that research assignments may be formulated which begin widely and then narrow. Then there is a rather wide funnel. Then it can happen that communication is tapped from people who are not suspected. That is the point that I believe several Members of Parliament have made here. And that point is also contained in the CTIVD's criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u255	I didn't like the word "suspected" in the first term of the Chamber. It could lead to misunderstandings. That concept does not exist within the framework of this law. In the Intelligence and Security Services Act, we do what is necessary for national security. Also a known terrorist who is tapped can call the baker on the corner, who is not suspected of anything. The concept of "suspected" is therefore not at issue in this context. It is in the law as it is now before the Minister, then the Review Committee, the TIB, and once it has been put into practice also to the CTIVD to say: we believe that the legal frameworks are being exceeded here. There will be legal form in the coming years and decades, as has been done under the current law, where the supervisor says: we still think this is proportional and this is no longer proportionate. You can't completely set the limits for that right now, here, in 2017. That will have to take shape in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u256	And then the supervisor says: we can't get away with this. But what I think is even more important is that this does not create the legal certainty that people need. That baker on the corner can indeed be tapped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u257	That's not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u258	No, it could happen that someone's getting a call. It's true now. For example, a Syrian can now be tapped. You can do that with the current law. Then you can also catch communication from that Syrian who is directed to people on whom there is no suspicion. This law makes it possible for you to set up a wider shelter. That is exactly the point that various groups are talking about here. That is the point that the CTIVD also says: make it more targeted, otherwise we cannot properly check whether the law is being properly applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u259	It's hard enough as it is, so let's avoid misunderstandings. We really shouldn't have that concept of "suspect" here. The test in the use of special means by the intelligence and security services is whether this is necessary for national security, whether it adds to the other means already in place and whether it is proportionate. Someone doesn't have to be suspicious about that. In fact, someone doesn't even have to be a target. It is also possible, strictly speaking, if there is sufficient justification for the use of a special means on the mother of a target, if that is the only way to obtain information to ensure national security. So that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u260	Well, "strongly taken..." I wish it were strictly taken. It is even a much larger shell which, on the basis of absolutely no suspicion, can lead to the tapping of people. That is what this law is about. As far as our party is concerned, it is fine to talk about this, but we do want some kind of focus to be built in. The Minister just gave the example of these networks to tap traffic between the Netherlands and Syria. There is no possibility of doing that on the cable yet, and this law could do that, the Minister said just now. I've heard that example before. D66 has tabled an amendment, on item No. 34. The Minister does not have to go into that now, because we may do so in writing. But let's say the Minister puts that amendment along the example he set. Is there then a light between the Minister's example and the spirit of the D66 amendment? My point is, no, there's no light in between. We merely restrict the systematic tapping of groups of people on a large scale. We don't want that. But the minister says, "I don't want that either."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u261	For the debate, it helps to carry it out in substance and not to refer to the amendment, because I have to look for it now. I hear something about new criteria, such as "systematic" and then you have to go back to filling them out. I guess I wouldn't recommend doing it that way. But if we agree on the example, we are already a long way off, because there is basically support for this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u262	I asked a question in writing and the Minister answered it. I complimented him on how clear that was, namely that we're not just gonna tap an entire neighborhood. The Minister wrote: no, it can't be, because that will never pass the proportionality test. Now I am saying all the time that I want the law to be a clear framework for the regulator and that supervisor is saying that it is useful to tighten up the framework in the law. The only thing D66 does, therefore, is what the Minister admits that he doesn't want, doesn't mean to want, by means of an amendment, to simply regulate it more legally, so that there is also a firmer framework. That's what D66 is doing right now. I ask the Minister why he is there because he just said that he can't get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u263	I understand in itself that the supervisor, who also has a tough job, says: the more frameworks we get, the better we can carry out that test in our supervisory role. I think we are shooting ourselves in the foot with what Mr Verhoeven is proposing, because you can already see the question coming. A neighborhood is not proportional. Is it half a block, a street or a porch? Where is this proportionality? You can also have that discussion on other matters. It's okay in a cell phone. Can it also be in a hollow tooth et cetera? I think you're gonna run out of law if you're gonna set that frame right now. It will have to be assumed that the service already has a keen eye on what is useful and necessary, that the minister responsible, operating with the confidence of the Chamber, has a sensible opinion that the TIB, which is an independent review, has not yet been discussed at all; that is a new element in this and that the supervisor will also work further along these frameworks in the coming years and will also shape this proportionality with new technical developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u264	Last question on this point, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u265	I didn't say anything to the other two cubes on purpose because I think this is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u266	I understand you're saving the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u267	Well, there's no savings system of interruptions, but I was hoping for your coulance. Looks like he's gonna be here for a while now. This is a point we must have discussed well before I know where the Minister is actually standing. The Minister says that we should not restrict it too much technology-related because otherwise we cannot move on with this law. D66 is in favour of technology-neutral legislation. We think it is understandable to say that if there is a great deal of traffic going on over the cable, then we will also have to do something on the cable. So we have no problem with that either, but the extent to which this is happening is a very different discussion than the question of "technology neutral or not technology neutral?'. As far as I am concerned, we are perfectly capable of creating a technology-neutral law where we do have principles that increase the degree of focus. Is the Cabinet prepared to think about that? I can't make it much more constructive than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u268	Perhaps Mr Verhoeven and the cabinet are not so far apart either, because there are clear frameworks. We are already working with these frameworks, even in the context of targeted interception: it must be necessary, subsidiary and proportionate. The only question is whether you can give further frameworks for that last understanding or for that understanding in conjunction with that subsidiarity and that necessity. The supervisor said that would help enormously, but the government's assessment is that you will eventually make a law that is not future-proof, because in two or three years' time it appears that the scope with a new communication technique could be just different. I think that we will have to live with the occasional situation in which the Minister says 'I would like to do so' and that the TIB says 'we don't think that is right anymore within the framework of the law' or that the supervisor says that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u269	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u270	Let me see if I have answered the other questions on this point sufficiently. With regard to Mrs Tellegen's question on the usefulness and necessity of cable access, I understand that the defence colleague will say a few things. Reference was made to research into the usefulness of bulk interception, but I have actually already talked about this. Mr Van Raak asked: can you prevent all attacks? Of course you can't. The statement that it would have prevented zero attacks was mainly about the totally unfocused collection of everything you can get, which indeed took place shortly after 9/11 in the United States. Obama later said: that was a mistake; that should not happen. We don't do that anymore, he said. Mr Verhoeven asked why this review had not been carried out earlier. I understand, but we received that evaluation at the start of this cabinet. We then had a debate on it. Then we started a legislative process. What we have not yet discussed is the fact that we have substantially amended the law as a result of the consultation. I'm the proud owner of the Big Brother Award. I was given that one and a half years ago at a meeting because I had not listened to the consultation. What the people in the room didn't know and what I couldn't tell at the time because it was still in the bosom of the cabinet was that I already intended to listen to it and to introduce an independent test in advance in the use of special powers. So I took that prize and dragged it to the ministry, but now I'm not really worth it anymore, because I did listen to the consultation. So we have amended the law as well. I didn't know if we could give it back. In the end, I gave it to Mr Dielemans, who was a member of my ministry at the time and wrote a large part of the law. He doesn't want to lose him anymore, so that's where he's resting. But we did change the law, didn't we? I will go to the individual speakers in a moment, but I would like to move on to my fourth block: international cooperation. No speaker disputes that this is necessary. In fact, on many occasions there is a critical question as to why this cooperation is not more intensive. As far as the AIVD section is concerned, we are working closely with the services in the surrounding countries, but also with the United States and with countries around the world in the field of counter-terrorism. That happens in different degrees. I'll get back to you on that. In the case of military missions, the Minister of Defense can tell you more about this. The whole operation is often carried out in cooperation with other countries. The same applies to the information position which precedes it and which accompanies the mission. There are a number of locks on the door for foreign cooperation to prevent what happens that people sometimes worry about, namely that information from the Netherlands just ends up in a foreign service. Let me walk you through those locks. Firstly, only information that has been lawfully collected may be shared with a foreign service. The fear that a service abroad indicates that it wants certain information, after which that information is provided, is not correct. It can't be. You can only provide what you have and you can only have what you have rightfully collected. That is what we have just discussed: it must be necessary and proportionate. Secondly, an assessment shall be made prior to the sharing of information. Who do we share this information with? The law lays down that "new" "records" that there will be a weighting analysis of all the countries in the world with which we want to share information. That's a job and it needs to be done carefully. That is why we are taking some time to do so. That's the second lock on the door. Thirdly, it is also new in this law................................................................................................................................................................................................ When I arrived, I was surprised to have to impose a burden on an individual tap on a telephone number, while the sharing of bulk information was now only about the bulk information collected via the ether and could take place at the level of the service, without the Minister knowing about it. I have now set up this procedure through my office, but we are now going to lay down in the law that this will require a burden from the Minister in the future. Fourthly, the supervisor shall be informed immediately. If it feels that something is being shared that should not be shared, it can of course always ring the bell through the trajectory we have just discussed. We have provided as many guarantees as possible for the sharing of information with foreign services. But at the same time we face the fact that we can only work together with foreign services, in some cases even intensively. In this context, Mr Amhaouch asked whether the data abroad is subject to Dutch jurisdiction. That is an important point for him. Let me go into this in detail. If the services store data outside the Dutch legal sphere, this is contrary to their duty of care. That obligation alone stems from the obligations of care laid down in the law. For example, look at Articles 23 and 24. This includes the provision of the necessary technical and organisational facilities for the security of data processing against loss or deterioration as well as unauthorised data processing. This means that the services cannot store that data on a foreign server, because they cannot guarantee that unauthorised persons, such as foreign services, will not have access to it. Those obligations also apply to Defence, if the acquisition takes place within the framework of its own mission. Another situation is the one I was just talking about. If information is shared with those four locks on the door, it falls under Dutch jurisdiction. In doing so, it has been given to the partner with whom we work on that point. So much for my fourth block on international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u271	For the sake of clarity, the information we store in the Netherlands, whether in a Google data centre or anywhere else, is therefore subject to Dutch law at all times. It can't be that America says that the servers in Google's data centre in Groningen are covered by American law, even if they are on Dutch soil?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u272	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u273	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u274	The minister says we're all checking that out. But how can you do that? It is bulk information that is processed automatically. We are also going to share unevaluated material. If we're going to share unevaluated bulk material with other countries, how can you monitor it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr Van Raak is right. If you've decided to share that material with another country, the four locks on the door I just mentioned apply. Then you have to assume that the partner with whom you share that information also does what is lawful under the law in that country. That will rule out a number of countries. With the secret service in Yemen, we may work together if there is a hostage situation or if something happens that involves acute cooperation, but with that service we will probably, however, be ahead of the weighing analysis without sharing unevaluated bulk information. With the service in Belgium, perhaps we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u276	So it's about unevaluated data on our citizens. So we don't know what's in it; it hasn't been evaluated. It goes to other countries and then it comes under a different law, so no longer under our law. They are therefore unevaluated data on our citizens, but another country under another law can work them in its own way. We don't have any way of monitoring that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u277	That's what's happening now. If we now collect data from a satellite relating to the situation in the Middle East, it may be that we share it with a number of countries with which we try to monitor developments in the Middle East together. So that's not a novum. You can't live without it. I do point out that the collection of information in the present law must be related to a research assignment. It must be assessed whether what is collected is necessary and proportionate. There's definitely a test in there. My colleague will go into this in more detail, but if it is anticipated that this information will be shared with allies immediately, it can be pointed out that it is being gathered in the context of a cooperation for which it is crucial that we share that information with allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u278	You can't test unevaluated data. You can't control that. But one more step: information from our citizens goes in bulk, in mass, unevaluated to another country, goes into another legal system with different laws and regulations. That information is being processed there and maybe she will come back to us. Our AIVD and STIVD, who according to our minister always keep to the law, then have information about our citizens who may not be allowed to have them under our law at all. What about it? How can you control that? Should we send that information back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u279	It could be that off the coast of Somalia information is collected that is shared unevaluated with people who are also trying to combat piracy. It could indeed be that an ally filters something out of that together with information that one has acquired independently from that other country, and that one draws interesting and interesting conclusions that are then shared with the STUDY or the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u280	Can the Minister say again what the need is for the opportunity to share information unread? What is the need to have that possibility explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u281	I just mentioned an example. That could be a military mission, but it could also be information from a high-risk area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u282	But why don't you make sure you read that information before you pass her on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u283	There's been a misunderstanding here about what you can read. It can be large datasets or metadata; who is in contact with whom? It may be about searching for a particular wavelength where information is shared, but it may also be about malware or trying to hack. For that, it can sometimes be useful that you try to clear up that information in alliance. In fact, on other occasions, we have been critically questioned by the Chamber as to whether we cooperated sufficiently with the services in Belgium, France and Germany, in this case in order to detect terrorism. It may be useful to share that information immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u284	I am not talking about cooperation, but about the unread transmission of information. The Minister now states that this is necessary because it can be a lot of information. Actually, he says: we may be gathering a huge haystack and we may want to pass it on. Then you don't know what you're passing on. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u285	I'm trying to understand what Mrs Voortman means by "unread information." That's like someone in Zoetermeer or at the barracks reading all that. You do have data reduction, of course, where you throw things out as soon as possible. We have addressed this extensively in the written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mrs. Voortman, you may explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u287	That's information you don't know what it is, what you don't know about, what you don't know about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u288	It happens a lot that you don't know what the content is yet. Then it may sometimes be useful for you to filter through the information together with an ally with whom you work intensively, military or in the fight against terrorism, and get new intelligence out to help ensure the security of the country. That's how you do it together. This cooperation can often be useful for filtering the interesting information from the large pile of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u289	Then you have no control whatsoever. Then you put haystacks together and you go in there and look for that one pin. The question is, how do you find it? Well, at least you're not in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u290	The fact that you have no control at all is not entirely true, because you have lawfully collected that information. The Minister and the TIB assessed whether this was proportionate, necessary and in the alternative to the use of other means. The burden given by the Minister describes the nature of the information. That doesn't mean you've read that until the last line when you share that information with an ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u291	International cooperation is, of course, very important. The most important country in the field of intelligence is the United States. This cabinet is not so satisfied with the outcome of the presidential elections in America and of that rather viciousness. Vice Prime Minister Asscher puts President Trump in the fascist corner on television and makes Hitler comparisons. Mrs Ploumen has a fund that has at least the intention of putting the President down viciously. This minister retweeted something, when Mr Trump was still a presidential candidate, that was a plea for violence against Mr Trump. In that video of Robert De Niro, Mr Trump was referred to as a pig and a dog. In short, this cabinet is getting in a bit hard, at least the PvdA-smaldeel. However, we only have one cabinet, and that speaks with one mouth. Is the venom of this cabinet against the President of the United States such a convenient thing? The United States is, once again, our main ally, especially in the field of intelligence acquisition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u292	First of all, let me confirm that the United States is a very important ally for our country, particularly in this area. Indeed, I retweeted that video of one of my favorite actors, Robert De Niro. By the way, the person concerned was not President of the United States at the time. I saw Mr Bosma react at the time. That video was over the top, some kind of angrier attack. I thought that was funny. That doesn't mean I endorsed all the content of that. I also thought it was a bit of an exaggeration to pretend that was the case. I should just like to say what I started with: when it comes to gathering information, indicating it and combating terrorism, the United States is indeed a very important ally for the Netherlands. That goes for the CIA, the NSA and the FBI.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u293	It seems to me that the Minister of Intelligence must agree, but I find it unheard of that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is appearing at a demonstration on the Malieveld against the results of the presidential elections in America. I find it strange that Mrs Ploumen is setting up a fund. It's about abortion, but it's obviously up to the president to chop it up. I saw a meeting of all Dutch ambassadors. They gave a standing ovation for that. It is clearly intended to torch off the President of the United States. I understand criticism, but this is happening with a venom that I find incomprehensible, just as I find it incomprehensible that the Minister of Intelligence would like and like to retweet such a video by Robert De Niro, in which there is a loud call for political violence against a politician, who is currently in the presidential elections of America and who is being portrayed as a pig and a dog. I find that kind of thing incomprehensible. I can imagine that in Washington people are scratching behind their ears and thinking: should we exchange information with that country which has such a big mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u294	I do not want to talk about abortion funds here, but I want to confine myself to what is ahead. I have already said that Robert De Niro is one of my favorite actors and that if I once draw attention to that at a time when the person concerned is not the President of the United States, I am not saying that I endorse every letter of that parodieirade. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u295	Moreover, I am very pleased and find it reassuring that the Netherlands can be very critical even against one of the largest allies if constitutional principles are violated. So that gives us a little bit of reassurance. But my question is about something else. If you share bulk data with third countries, it may have been collected abroad or in the Netherlands. Is that a distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u296	In any case, it should be argued why it is necessary to share that information with abroad. When it comes to bulk information, a separate charge is given. I am thinking for a moment about whether the country where the information was collected should be a decisive criterion. We sometimes collect satellite information from other parts of the world from the Netherlands and under the new law we can collect information from other parts of the world via cable and bring it to the Netherlands. So I'm just looking. I do not know whether that should be a decisive criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u297	Let me be a little more specific: it is about Dutch information about Dutch citizens. In a previous debate, in which we talked about sharing bulk data via the ether with the United States, it was said: as far as possible we simply filter out information about Dutch citizens. That is why a distinction has been made in this area. I wonder if that's even possible for data you collect over the cable. But the suggestion "we think it is important to at least give Dutch citizens good protection" was included. So I ask the Minister: what is the current law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u298	I will come back to this in the second term. I'm thinking right now, but I'll just verify that it's technically impossible. I also wonder if it is desirable, because in the case of counter-terrorism, for example, part of the group you are looking for may indeed be Dutch citizens. So I do not know whether it would be desirable to make that distinction. If it's any different, I'll come back to it in second term. But this is my first reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u299	If we share information with abroad, foreign countries also share information with us. That goes back and forth, I suppose. In the Netherlands, there is a guarantee that the information collected by our services must be collected in the context of a particular investigation. Of course, foreign services may also have information about our citizens and that the Netherlands is requesting this information. Those services may not be bound by those rules. Can the Netherlands do everything with this data, even if it has not been collected in the context of a particular investigation, according to the strict rules of our law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u300	The answer is yes. In our weighing analysis, of course, we will also assess the legal status of the partner we work with. This includes human rights, the extent to which the partner can guarantee confidentiality, the professionalism of the services involved in cooperation and so on. This all weighs on the extent to which we share data over and over again. We can see that, if we do that with Germany, that country has its own legal framework, which may differ from the Dutch legal framework. What is not allowed, either under the current or under the new law, are the so-called U-turn structures. The CTIVD has also done research on this subject. So it should not be that, if we want something, we say to the Americans, just to circumvent the Dutch law: gosh, we ourselves should not do that, so do us a favor and do it for us, please. That should not be the case, and neither should the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u301	I can imagine that, if it's literally like this, this is not allowed. Well, then you do have the CTIVD. But if we throw all the information into one big haystack today, that is the expression 'the risk', of course, can increase. It may not even have to be an explicit request. You know that you have so much data, not only from your own service, but above all from, for example, the Five Eyes community, in which intensive information is exchanged, that there is an increasing chance that between them there are data from our own people who we should not have acquired but which they have acquired and which we will then thankfully use. Shouldn't there be closer monitoring of that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u302	I didn't start the example of those coffee mugs for nothing. That's what information comes in that we weren't supposed to collect. What if that law doesn't apply in America, and they've collected DNA information there in the same way, which, according to their law, would be okay? And suppose that information is relevant for safety in the Netherlands. Then it would indeed be possible, under the current legal regime, but also under the future regime, to obtain relevant and interesting information, which has been collected by the allies in a way that is legitimate for their country, but not in the way that we would find legitimate in the Netherlands, and that we could use that information. You can't rule that out, neither can you. Those legal frameworks can therefore differ between allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u303	I understand that, and of course it is now. But we're going to collect more and more data. That's what this whole law is about: it's getting more and more massive, it's getting more and more. That is why my question is: shouldn't the CTIVD or something like that form some kind of judgment on how to deal with such situations? I don't think it's all gonna be cut with scissors anymore. That's getting worse. Then you have a legal framework in the Netherlands that fits the Dutch situation, but you get all the data anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u304	One way, so when we share information collected from the Netherlands, it complies with the legal frameworks we have just discussed. Mrs Schouten asks about the situation in which it is going the other way: if we get information from American allies or Belgians, how do we deal with it? The starting point is that we assume that the partners have collected this information in a legitimate way according to their own laws. A further test is not taking place at the moment. The CTIVD can at any time launch a study on how it relates to each other. This can also be done on request. From the parliament, the government can ask the CTIVD to conduct such an investigation. But the main concern of the law as it now stands goes the other way: how do we deal with information we obtain under Dutch law, and to what extent and in what way can we share it with an ally? I just answered that. Let there be no misunderstanding about this: we are often very much helped with the information we get from allies who draw our attention to a potentially dangerous situation. So we appreciate it very much. So I agree that if those quantities increase, the question of how the different laws relate becomes more interesting, but I do not think we can solve him here. That's why I'm holding back a little bit. We are just dealing with other countries, which have different legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u305	I had asked a few questions about this, but they are so close to what is being said here that I would like to clarify them now. The Minister says all the time that this is four locks. However, I asked in my term how to speak of a lock when you don't need a weighing note, because of the transition article, and then you're going to share unevaluated data, so you haven't seen it yet. Then you actually already have two locks that don't close. So I would like to receive the Minister's response to this, because that is, of course, crucial. You keep saying that it's been locked, and then put in the law that you're not gonna close the lock for another two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u306	In that transitional situation, three important locks remain. You can only share what you have lawfully accumulated, after the Minister has given permission to collect it first. Then the Minister must give his permission to share it separately. And finally, the supervisor can see if whatever happens is in the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u307	That's what the Minister says: I have three locks. Then I come to the question I asked. Could it be that communication between a lawyer and a client as a by-catch of a service ends up in, for example, the United States or the United Kingdom, despite those three locks? Is it possible, then, within the system of this law, with the current way of exchanging confidential communications, as a by-catch, with a foreign service?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u308	In fact, the communication that a person with possibly terrorist motives has, whether with a lawyer, with a priest or with a psychiatrist, can, if necessary, be collected and shared. The answer to the question is therefore affirmative. This also applies to bulk information. By the way, I have also indicated that bulk information does not allow you to find out the source of a journalist or to get a picture of a lawyer's client. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u309	That's what worries me. Communication, which we have said is crucial and which cannot be made available, can therefore end up as a by-catch with a foreign service. I thought this would be the case, and the Minister confirms it. I have one more question on this point. There is a Dutch lady who has had to translate conversations in Australia, probably for GCHQ, the British intelligence service. I've asked questions about that to the cabinet, too, I think. She had to translate those conversations. Then how did those conversations end up in Australia? That is something that is very closely linked to the issue we are dealing with here, namely the sharing of unseen information. Apparently, another service is doing something about that. It translates that information from Dutch into the language of the receiving service. Surely that's a far-reaching example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u310	This is a case-law which, as far as I understand it, probably relates to the method of operation of the service and cannot therefore be discussed in public. To be honest, I cannot answer that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u311	Then I suggest that you move on to the following subject: the retention periods, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u312	Yeah, the next block is about the retention periods. I found that several people said at the consultation stage: could you not do this saving less than the three years before? I have heard intensively with the AIVD and my colleague has also done so with the STUDY. We have looked at this again, because the more we can do with the processing of input, the better. Would it really not be possible to keep the information shorter? If I could have done that, I'd be happy to do it. But the answer is that that is not possible, because often the preparation time for military operations alone is longer than a year. We have talked about this before. In the fight against terrorism, too, it can be seen that the period during which groups engage in their activities is longer than a year. It may then really be useful and necessary to look back two years later and say: this is the relevant information we have obtained. Anyway, I understand the concerns about that. I think it is useful that the law should still state that we can keep bulk information for three years. If there was any other way, I'd be happy to admit it. However, the services say that we should not want to, because we would seriously weaken the intelligence position if we had to destroy that information after a year. That is why I am standing here with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u313	I said in my term that I understand that there are dates that you need to keep for more than a year and a half. This can only be done if you have the guarantee that everything that does not have to be stored for so long will be immediately discarded. In what way can the Minister convince us of this? Because you actually have a much shorter term than a year and a half. Then it's just: save as long as it takes and then leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u314	Mr Recourt is right to draw his attention to this. We are now discussing the maximum retention period. But in there, the duty of care means that the information, when it is no longer needed, will be destroyed anyway. It could very well be shorter. It could also be that working road in practice shows that it can almost always be shorter. Then there will be a new situation. On the basis of the information we have now, we believe that we should not deny our services the possibility of keeping that information for three years. Point well tasks!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u315	We understand that these three years are also desirable for STUDY and for a number of things for the AIVD. The Council of State makes critical comments on this. He has serious doubts as to whether this is sustainable for Strasbourg, for the ECHR. Can the Minister confirm once again that the three-year period we recognize that we need it is Strasbourg proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u316	I have also had our lawyers take a close look at this and they confirm that it is indeed in line with the terms of the ECHR. I would add that, with all due respect and appreciation for the opinion of the Council of State, I think that we should also listen to the professionals. They collect and process that information and indicate it. Those are the people of the STUDY and the AIVD. They say to us, as trade ministers, that we would seriously weaken our intelligence position if we were forced to destroy that information after a year. We therefore want to have the possibility of keeping the information for up to three years, as is now presented in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u317	Wouldn't it be possible to say it's a year, unless it's really necessary? Isn't that a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u318	In fact, the law meets Mrs Voortman even further than she is asking. That was already decided in Mr Recourt's comment. It shouldn't last longer than it's useful anyway. If it has lost its value after six months, it must be destroyed. It's about maximum time limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u319	But the tricky thing about that is: what's useful? It's very hard to tell. If the services feel it is always useful to keep it for three years, who says: ho, in this case it is not useful. That's exactly the point we're dealing with here. I think that the Minister is very easily overstepping the judgment of the Council of State, after the CTIVD, the Human Rights College and all kinds of other organisations have also said: three years is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u320	First of all, how do you know it's really necessary? Firstly, it is of course the services and the minister responsible who assess whether it is still useful to collect this information in the context of the duty of care. There is also a confidence element in that. In addition, the supervisor is always able to plow through it and say: wait a minute, this is kept longer than is strictly necessary; this practice is not good. The supervisor may address this in general terms in the public report and, if necessary, with underlying information in the secret section to the CIVD. I come to the last of the six general issues: the role of the supervisor and the review committee. In this context, I would also like to discuss Mr Recourt's question as to whether there are any remaining opinions on the current legislative proposal from the CTIVD that have not been taken over by us. How do these two relate to each other? At an earlier stage we have considered whether it would not be a good idea if the organisation that has been set up to do this kind of business, which is already bound by secrecy and which has experts in the house, organizes the independent consent in advance? That was also the opinion of the CTIVD at the time. In the end, this was not considered desirable, as the supervisor would have to supervise a route in which he himself gave his consent, in which he himself has a role to play. We have deliberately separated that from each other. On the basis of the rulings of the European Court of Justice, we had to organise independent prior authorisation at the Hague Court in any case, in terms of source protection of journalists and attorney-client interactions. At that time we looked at each other deeply and found that it was wise to organise an independent test in advance, also looking at the development of case law. At the same time, of course, we have looked at our services and said: can we organise it in such a way that it remains workable? You need to be able to act fast. For this reason, the present form has been chosen. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this form certainly meets the requirements of the ECHR. It is an independent ex ante test in which the TIB assesses whether the statement of reasons can bear the decision: is it right, on the basis of the information provided, that the Minister has given the order to the service or has given it permission? The TIB can always say that it finds it incompletely motivated. For this reason, she may want more information. If she doesn't get that information, she can decide not to agree, and then it stops there. That process can continue for as long as the TIB finds it useful and necessary. The TIB can always ask questions. According to Article 36 of the new law, it can ask for the Minister's support to be able to do the work even better. How does this relate to ministerial responsibility? Look, the minister has to act within the legal framework that the TIB is part of. You can't break the law. If the TIB says it is not allowed to do so, then you are bound by it as a minister, but there is full room for political assessment by the House of Representatives. I'll give you a scenario. The Minister approves what he or she himself considers necessary for national security and which is subsidiary to other means and which is proportionate. He is then corrected by a TIB, who says: no, this is not allowed. I think it would be wise if the Minister didn't say, "Well, then we don't do anything." No, I can very well imagine that the Minister thinks: hearing the TIB's judgment, I must try to serve national security in a different way and I must come up with a different burden, partly, better argued or thrown over another bow. If he does not do that well, he can be held fully liable by Parliament in accordance with normal political rules. So that TIB should never be an excuse for the Minister's failure to act. The Minister can say at some point that he intended to, but that it proved not to be legitimate on further examination and that he did something else at that time. That's what he's responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u321	Mrs. Tellegen. Were you finished at this point, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u322	On this particular point, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u323	On this particular point. The answer is clear. The only question I have is next. At the time when the TIB judges differently from the Minister, it also argues that. In other words, on this basis, the Minister can also say that he knows exactly where the mission was not clear and formulates it in a different way. Or does the TIB just have to say yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u324	If the TIB decides to counter the burden imposed by the Minister, I think it would be very useful for the TIB to argue that, so that the Minister knows what the reason is that the consent was not given. He can then think about it and maybe throw it over a different path. That seems to me to be very useful and, in fact, self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u325	Let me get this straight. I think it is an unnecessary question, but does this mean that after the new burden of the Minister, the TIB is being re-examined and is giving its opinion again? In this way, legality is secured in advance. There's no light in there, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u326	Definitely not. I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u327	The monitoring was the second point that my group believes should have been heavier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u328	But the minister wasn't ready. He's gonna finish this subject first. Then you will have the opportunity to intervene, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u329	I come to the question about the relationship with the CTIVD. The CTIVD is the regulator on the entire route of the activities of the security services. That's not just after permission has been given. That impression is sometimes given. The supervisor may also monitor the trajectory of the burden formation. Is the Minister sufficiently informed when he gives such a burden? In this context, it can look at the activities that take place with a helicopter view. That includes the TIB. It does not seem useful to me that the substantive test, as done on a case by the TIB, is carried out by the CTIVD on a second occasion. That's not the supervisor's job. In that case, the supervisor may say that he sees things differently, but that does not add much to the supervisory system. Again: I am making it up here, so I have to be careful with that, but it may be that the supervisor thinks that the burden is generally based on information that is not good, or that they could be better motivated. That is, of course, a relevant advice for the person who gives the burden. Will I first answer Mr Recourt's question as to what views of the CTIVD we have not yet incorporated into the law? When it comes to monitoring the activities of the service, it is about Roma locuta, causal finita. If the supervisor has spoken and he has said that something should not be done because it is unlawful, then you must come as a minister of very good house to do it anyway. Now, however, we are talking about the legislative process and then we are taking over the opinions to a large extent, but there may be something else that we see in our legislative role. There are indeed a few examples. Not much, because we have accepted most of the points. We have not taken over the distinction in retention period for content and metadata, if only because in our view the difference between metadata, traffic data and content is sometimes unclear. This is the case for e-mails, for example, because they sometimes send content messages in the subject field, which is strictly part of the metadata. We do that ourselves sometimes when we send an e-mail. The concept of metadata does not seem to me to be a useful concept for the retention periods. That is why we have set one deadline for everything. We have included the duty of care, as advised by the CTIVD, but we have less implemented it. The CTIVD suggested that we would oblige the service to establish the written data, the description of each carrier. We didn't want to lay that down with that fineness in the law. This also applies to the alignment with the TIB. It might be useful for the CTIVD and the TIB to speak with each other, but we should be careful that we do not strive under the heading of "right unit" for those two to always coordinate what happens, because then one will become the boss of the other. That is not the relationship we would wish for. We didn't take over that part. Each has its own role in this order. Furthermore, the law does speak for itself in the end. I do not know if it is an exhaustive list, but I thought I had sufficiently motivated it. When I discussed this subject, I have already given a slightly different coloration of the journalistic sources than perhaps the opinion of the CTIVD, but I have explained that in substance. I think I have made a number of points. There may be a few more, but that also follows from the law, in which we finally arranged it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u330	I asked specifically about the five points on page 3 of the last CTIVD view, or whatever it might call it. There the CTIVD writes that it is the five points on which you have to save and retrieve as little as possible. In other words, they are the legal safeguards for data restriction. The committee recommends putting it in the law. I do not know whether it should be in the law, but the question is how these five points are addressed. Is that taken seriously and can the CTIVD, if it has to test later, say: Oh yes, those five points have been taken into account and we can also see that that has been done well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u331	In the eyes of the cabinet, this decision is based on the proportionality, which is assessed in advance, and on the other hand on the duty of care, as laid down in the law on the advice of the CTIVD. I hope that's how I answer it in general. Let me see if I have any other points. I spoke about the role of the CTIVD. I talked about the metadata. There's something I have to say about the budget. An additional budget has been added. The Chamber is also aware of that. I would not like to have a more detailed discussion here about whether the budget will ultimately be sufficient. If that is not the case, the Department of General Affairs, in consultation with the TIB or the CTIVD, will eventually consider whether additional budget is needed. I think with the budget we've allocated now, we can get out of the starting blocks. That's 20 million, of which 19 million for implementation and 1 million for the TIB and the CTIVD. For a further discussion on the budget, I would actually like to refer to the future and the interaction between General Affairs and the TIB and the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u332	Mrs Voortman, Mr Verhoeven was before, but he lets you go first. You have a question about the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u333	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now I understand that the Minister is actually saying: will we see the financial basis later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u334	No, no, no. I said that the CTIVD's total budget increased by half a million last year. This means that almost half of it has been added, because the budget now amounts to 1.62 million while it was about a million. So the budget has already been increased. With the advent of the new powers, the General Affairs budget has earmarked an additional million for the CTIVD and the TIB. This can provide the TIB with a good secretariat, housing, ICT, support and so on. I think it's appropriate. It has been invested in General Affairs, but the Cabinet takes note of this discussion that we will have to make sure that the TIB and the CTIVD are equipped to do their work in the future. If it turns out otherwise, we must act on it. So we think it's that good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u335	I assume that this law entails more costs than just the costs for the TIB secretariat and the equipment of the CTIVD. We give the services more powers and I assume that this can lead to more work being done. What are the costs involved? Surely a concrete number should be attached to that, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u336	I could have sworn I just mentioned it, but it is 20 million, of which 1 million for the TIB and the CTIVD and the remaining 19 million for the implementation by the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u337	I don't know if the minister is already at the end of the surveillance block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u338	Let's assume for a moment that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u339	The Council of State has written critical things about supervision. When they write critical things, it's usually hidden in very chic and legal language. He says the TIB will always approve the Minister's consent. In normal human language, it actually says it's a wash nose. The Minister says the law speaks for itself. I believe that the law does not speak for itself, but is too broad on a number of points. The Minister says all the time that he has good intentions, but I say that the law is well formulated. If there is another monitoring committee, which the Council of State says is a wash nose, then I think we are in danger. Will the Minister comment on what the Council of State has said about this: an approval stamp machine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u340	The Council of State has not said "washed nose," but has indeed wondered out loud how often the TIB will reject something. I want to say two things about it. I find it in itself a difficult measure of the effectiveness of such a TIB. Fortunately, in our legal services there is also an anticipating effect of what is being prepared for burdens within the services. The services already know that it has to be about the minister's office, that the minister is critical of it and that in the future not only the minister, but also the TIB is critical of it. They will anticipate this and make proposals which they know and can expect to fit within the limits of the law. That's just a preliminary remark. I don't think the percentage of rejections is a good measure of the benefit of the TIB. Sensible services know that the TIB is there and will not make proposals that do not fit within the framework of the law. Having said that, I am convinced on the basis of my knowledge of people and organisations, but well, that is an expectation that if you put such an organization in place that has to decide in collectivity, with two people who have been judges for years and someone who knows the technique, they will never approve all of it. Your concern could rather be the other way around: they don't sit there for nothing, so they will send something back. We'll have to see it in practice. Services must operate within the legal framework. I think it'll be a serious test. Based on knowledge of people and society, I expect that once such an institution is in place, that work will always be done seriously. Again, I think that the number of rejections is not the measure of how serious that is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u341	I think that the Minister is very strategic about the behaviour of both the Committee of Inquiry and the services. He says that the services will probably write their approval requests in a certain way to get them approved, as if everything were happening consciously. Things can, of course, go unwittingly and therefore not be approved by the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Without sneaking around trying to get it through, mistakes can sometimes creep in. This is completely unrelated to the scenario outlined by the Minister. On the other hand, he says that there will be a kind of chilling effect from the presence of a committee of review which will improve the applications and that the committee will in turn reject something a few times because otherwise she will be criticised for approving everything. I don't think we should look at it that way at all. We need to look at what the services write down and what the Committee of Inquiry then says about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u342	I don't understand either of the objections. I hope that the services will do their utmost to make their plans within the framework of the law. When they do so, they do so in the knowledge that the Minister will be judged on necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity and will then be independently reviewed by the TIB. That could be an extra motivation to do that accurately. They will also do so on their own. That is how I know the services because they work professionally and want to work within the limits of the law. Conversely, I do not find it cynical at all to say that when a TIB is set up with heavy people in it based on their experience and knowledge, they really sit down and will say: we are asked a judgment and that is what we give. It may indeed be that they often have to consider that the department and the minister have taken a responsible draft decision, which they can confirm. However, it is also possible that they cannot do so, for the reason mentioned by Mr Verhoeven, for example because something has been overlooked, because a mistake has been made or because something is not sufficiently motivated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u343	I would like to know how many questions you have left to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u344	This was my sixth and last block. Then I come to the questions per person. I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u345	I think there's been a lot of interruptions. In addition, a lot has been said in between. Mr Verhoeven, you are looking at me; are you really going to ask a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u346	Yes. The Minister said just now in reply to a question from Mrs Tellegen: if a proposal is not approved by the TIB, it can return to the Minister; the Minister can then make a new, modified proposal, after which it can be approved. Then we get the system of a few ping-pongs back and forth, then it's okay. Can the Minister say anything about that? This does not seem to me to be a good way of independent prior supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u347	The word "supervisory" must be avoided. It's about consent that needs to be given. I think it is useful to learn from whether or not to grant consent. The Minister may also be responsible for the failure to give his consent. It can look at a proposal and then say: the service has this plan, but I have looked at it again and I am not signing it this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u348	I suggest that you now answer all the questions in a row, because the Minister of Defence has still to answer. We also have a second term. Some 50 amendments have also been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u349	I have received the thickest pile of questions from Mr Verhoeven. I have just checked, but I know that he has perhaps never even been to work at the AIVD in Zoetermeer. Part of the questions is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u350	This too is baiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u351	I would like to invite Mr Verhoeven. Let me explain this. Some of the questions do not relate to what is new in the new law, but to how the service works under the current law. It is precisely in relation to the pressure of time that I do not seem to have to deal with some of the questions. However, I will walk through all the questions as soon as possible, but perhaps it is good to do so in part outside this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u352	You started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u353	The minister had begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u354	That's why I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u355	What the Minister says is true, but his comment is in no way relevant to the handling of the legislative text. I would like to visit the service as soon as possible, but this remark by the Minister is completely superfluous and does not correspond to the constructive and constructive tone of D66 during this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u356	The only reason to mention it is to justify why some of the questions do not relate to what is new in the law, but to the practice that is already there on the basis of the existing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u357	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u358	Nothing has changed in terms of intercepting packages. This relates to the mode of operation of the service, so we do not provide information in public. In general, I can say that the services naturally take certain measures so that the recipient does not become aware of any delay. That was and remains the case on the basis of the new law. It is asked whether cable access is needed for attribution research, to see where the hacks come from. Yes, cable access will contribute significantly to the attribution research. This is the short version of the answer. It has also been asked how wrong people are prevented from coming to the attention of the services as a result of the adoption of other people's identities by targets. On this point, too, nothing changes compared to the current law. The services are aware that targets can assume a different identity. They are also aware that it can be the identity of an unsuspecting citizen. By analysing and correlated the data to data already collected and to be collected, the services are able to determine whether the identity of an unsuspecting citizen is being abused. If this is established, the data already collected from the citizen concerned will be removed from the systems of the relevant service and destroyed. That's what happened before. A question has also been asked about the algorithms used. By letter of amendment, I included a duty of care which requires the heads of service to take care of the necessary facilities to promote the accuracy and completeness of the data processed and to promote the quality of data processing, including the algorithms and models used. I cannot give more openness to the algorithms that the services use, because that would provide an insight into their way of working. In the case of automated data analysis, how is the context of the data taken into account? The short answer is: as far as possible, that happens. In itself, researching metadata for the services is not new, because they are already doing so via the ether. According to the locational climate, I believe that this was also stated in the report's note, a business impact assessment was carried out in order to assess the impact on business. It is clear that the impact on business will be very limited. By the way, companies also have an interest in what is called "a safe place to do business," so in the end it is also good for companies that the services do that. That's about the economic disadvantage. This will eventually be taken into account when it comes to proportionality. In principle, services do not carry out an economic test. However, if it had total disproportionate effects, it would be part of the proportionality test. Can a service refuse to cooperate on a request for information referred to in Article 39? The answer is yes. That hasn't changed from the current law either. They asked about hacking and what is a "significant vulnerability." That's what we've been talking about before. It is clear that the services do not oblige people there to have legal basis for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is not the intention, quite the contrary. The service urges people to try to remove vulnerabilities from systems, because they may pose security risks. Another thing is that the service can naturally encounter a vulnerability. Then, in the interests of security, before the person concerned is informed that he has a vulnerability in his system, it can be used to test for national security purposes. For this purpose, the question is relevant as to whether this vulnerability is a result of negligence, whether it is already known to the public, and how much damage occurs if that vulnerability is not immediately reported. This must then be balanced against the importance of identifying, for example, a source of vulnerability, identifying a terrorist and gathering information in this way. The more significant the vulnerability, the larger the group for whom that vulnerability is relevant, and the less it can be imagined that these reasons can be invoked. There were questions about filtering large datasets. That must be done as quickly as possible in the process. This can be positive and also negative. I'm not going to describe that in detail right now. How is it determined which fiber is needed for cable connections? Article 52 of the bill provides for a power for the services to obtain the necessary information from a provider. When there is a reasonable expectation that the necessary data flow is present on a particular fiber or fibre, the services request permission to intercept a specific data flow for a short time. That goes by the minister in question and also along the TIB, who then has to give the consent. The technical and substantive characteristics will then be used to determine whether that flow of data is actually relevant to those research assignments. That is the competence of Article 49 in the legislative proposal. We have already talked about selectivity, also in response to questions from the VVD. The question has also been asked by myself whether we should perhaps wait a little while and, in parallel with each other, reflect the constitutional change and this law. I would like to remove the suggestion that when we amend the Constitution, we will be left to decide what is necessary under the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven that the hierarchy is a reverse and that, of course, the Constitution precedes and provides the framework for the laws as we fill them in here. I think that is the answer to Mr Verhoeven's questions. Then I shall go on to answer Mr Van Raak's questions even more quickly. The legislative proposal provides for a legal basis for the exercise of reference at the request of third parties by Mr Van Raak. This means that the existing practice, as is known, inter alia, from the CTIVD's monitoring reports, is now regulated by law. That is another example of legal form. Where this had actually become the practice on the basis of CTIVD opinions, it is now also laid down in the law. I have already spoken about Mr Hirsch Ballin's statement. I put it in context, too. When it comes to giving a burden to impose special resources, politicians as such have no special protection other than that of the law. I can imagine that, as part of the proportionality test, special resources will not be used lightly. But that should also be the case when it comes to the bakery on the corner, so let me take that back. I believe that every citizen should have special resources only if it is necessary and proportionate. This also applies explicitly to politicians. However, the mere fact that you are alderman, or landed from a waterboard, or MP, does not mean that you can avoid the sight of the security services if there is a legitimate reason to use special means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u359	Mr Van Raak has a question and I will give him the floor in a moment. However, I would like to know how long you think you need, Minister. 'Cause every time we think you're doing a round-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u360	I am now answering the second speaker's questions. However, I try to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u361	I'll be brief, too. It is an important issue, but I am particularly concerned about the protection of resources. For journalists and lawyers, we do source protection. But as an MP, I also have my sources to protect, like whistleblowers. People need to be able to report things in confidence. There shouldn't really be a back door in the law, so the government can find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u362	We have organised, also on the basis of statements by the ECHR, permission from the court in The Hague and laid down in the law for the lawyer-client interactions and for the source protection of journalists. However, we are now limiting it to that. It can be useful and important in itself for people to be able to turn to people from other professions in full confidence. The same goes for psychiatrists, spiritual leaders, general practitioners, you name it. But when it comes to national security, those professions are not excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u363	We all have a role in our rule of law. That goes for lawyers, that goes for journalists. The profession of journalist is thus different from that of yoga teacher or something else than that of psychologist. We all have a role in the rule of law. The same applies to representatives of the people. We can do our job because we can gather information. And we don't have to mention our sources. We enjoy source protection. The Minister can't force me to disclose my sources. If I did, I couldn't do my job. But then, if I can be bugged through the back door, that is a bit of a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u364	I am referring now to my previous answer. This also applies to ministers and to all kinds of other officials in our rule of law. It also applies to members of the Council of State. Of course, they do not have special resources if this is not absolutely necessary, if it does not add anything to what is already possible and if it is not proportional to the objective to be achieved. But they are not completely excluded from that. I hope that those who represent the people and those who are here in trade union K are people with whom there is no reason to think that they are engaged in terrorist activities. Furthermore, I really refer to my previous reply. Mrs. Voortman asked if there were any questions that couldn't be answered. In this context, let me also answer the questions that have been asked about research on the human body. I have already said in the note on the report that the integrity of the human body is a great asset in our rule of law, but I would not want to be very specific about it. What do we do when someone has a wooden leg or wears a sports watch? Where does something that is worn on the body begin and ends? What's in it? We're just trying to keep it independent of technology. I would therefore like to stick to what we have already written in the written reply. The same applies to the Internet of Things; Mrs Voortman asked for it. So I would not like to give an exhaustive description. Which devices do and which do not fall within the scope of the law? In two years, we'll have something else on our wrist or anywhere else on the body. If we become more specific about this, it would make the law technologically dependent, and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u365	Very briefly, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u366	Does the Minister not want to regulate technical independence at AMvB? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u367	I think that this is a typical example of what legal form will take place in the future. I have already said that the integrity of the human body weighs very heavily. Anyway, if someone with his sports watch measures his heartbeat, is that still human body or not? I don't know what information might be derived from that at the moment that's important to safety, but... I'm just thinking out loud. It is always looking for where the limit of what is and is not acceptable. I think it is indeed in the test of necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality. If there is a new technique, the TIB can form an opinion on it. The supervisor can also conduct an investigation at any time. This could also be done on the suggestion of the Chamber. If the Chamber adopts a motion requiring the CTIVD to investigate exactly where that limit is, this can happen on occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u368	Surely we could also say that at AMvB we want to define what automated works are covered by the law? I understand very well that the legislative process is slower than technological developments. That you don't want to put it in the law, I understand, but couldn't you do it at AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u369	I honestly do not see the need for this from the point of view of national security. We are constantly trying with the services to keep pace with the technical developments of people who have bad plans for our country's security. I wouldn't want to go back to spelling that out. Let me take a look at Mr Recourt. I thought I answered all the questions he asked in the general section, such as the one about the exchange with foreign services and the relationship between the TIB and the CTIVD. As far as experts are concerned, the Ministers concerned, as stated in Article 36 of the Treaty, shall cooperate which they consider necessary for the performance of their duties, i.e. the TIB. So further information and support can always be requested through the Minister. Then I look at Mr Bosma. He asked about the company Fox. The company Fox Crypto BV provides cryptological services and products to the government. Thus, it does not itself manage state secret information, but is a supplier of products and all kinds of other objects purchased by the services. What happens to it and also the branch in the Netherlands, Fox Crypto BV, is subject to Dutch laws and regulations. Furthermore, Mr Bosma has said a great many things that I agree with and also a few things that he does not expect me to agree with. In my general part, I have already said that I think it is important for the objective we do share, namely to combat jihadist violence, that the services have the powers they need. That's what Mr Bosma said. Mrs Schouten asked about the yellow and red card procedure. In fact, I have already replied to this in my general section in the event of her interrupting about the timing with which the information is forwarded to the Chamber. I thought I answered all her questions. The same applies to international legal systems and how they relate to each other. Mrs Tellegen supports the bill. Thank you for that. She talks about the cooperation between the AIVD and the STIVD. It's already intense. I can imagine that collocation will increase it further in the coming years. We will see how far that brings the services closer together, but, frankly, they are now working very well together. I've heard stories about a long time ago, that there was a bit more distance, but they're now pulling shoulder-to-shoulder for our safety, and that's how it's supposed to be. Mrs Tellegen asked about the importance. What can't happen? I have tried to illustrate this with an example, but in the end this is an important point. If we have any suspicion that someone is playing a role in threatening our national security, then we can use targeted means, but that is not enough. So we really need this in our repertoire, as do our neighbouring countries. Could you give permission for the three phases in one go? The answer is no. It is important that each of these three stages of acquisition, processing and analysis should be carried out sequentially, precisely in order to avoid mass data collection and to immediately look at the content. That is a concern that has rightly been raised here in the Chamber. You wouldn't want that. If people are looking for their computer at home because of any personal situation, they need to know that in Zoetermeer there is not someone watching what they are doing. That is precisely why I attach great importance to separating those stages of acquisition, processing and then specifically analysing the data, with the consent and supervision at each of those stages. A request was made for the capacity utilisation of the services. That will have to develop in practice. In the end, the integrated designation also plays a role. I have spoken about ministerial responsibility. There was a question about speed and care. If we set it up as we have done now, I think that the workability of the services that enable them to act effectively will be maintained, while there will be a substantial test by the TIB which also meets the requirements of European law. There's a sequence in there. In order to make pace, I would imagine that we would be able to inform the TIB in advance in the form of: "This burden will go to the Minister tomorrow, but here you have it. We don't know if the minister likes him so much, but you can take a look at it." Then you win again a few days, but the main thing is that the minister has to give permission first and then it goes to the TIB. I thought I had answered Mrs Tellegen's questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u370	I have a question that has more to do with the CTIVD's controlling task during data processing and, above all, the destruction of that data. How does that work? How does the CTIVD get a look at that? My other question was how the CTIVD soon came to the people who really know it, to that kind of technical knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u371	The CTIVD has the unique position of "I don't believe that any other supervisor who has the ability to reach it anywhere, walks around in the barracks and in Zoetermeer, and has access to all computer files. All the information and every tickle I put on a charge as a minister is seen, if she so wishes, by the CTIVD. She can reach anything. We have recently expanded the research formation. If you take a sec look at the research formation, you'll see that it's about doubled in this cabinet period. It therefore has the capacity to do so. As has just been discussed, there is also room in the budget of 20 million for the TIB and perhaps some support from the CTIVD to attract people who can further support that. Mr Amhaouch stressed the importance of adequate funding for the security services. I realize that he has always fully supported this and thank him for that. To his question of the legal effect abroad, I replied extensively in the general section. Mr Bishop asked whether the current law offers sufficient possibilities for breaking encryption. The answer is yes. We can be brief about that. I thought I'd run out of part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u372	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u373	Mr. Chairman. The good news is that I can be very brief, because my colleague from the Interior has, of course, taken over most of the questions as captain. First of all, and perhaps a little bit in conclusion, let me say that nobody anticipated that the restriction we cycled in 2002 in the Wiv, namely that interception is only possible on non-cable networks, would lead fifteen years later to the largely blind and deafness of our intelligence services. But that is the reality we are talking about. Indeed, a very large proportion of telecommunications has moved from air to cable networks. In the first period, I was a little surprised at the fact that there was always talk of a new power. Fortunately, some of you corrected that, because that authority has been in place for a long time. The majority of communication has simply moved from the air to the cable. In the digital age in which we live now, with all our mobile means of communication and complex networks, it is not very difficult to conclude that the proceeds of so-called classical interception methods are falling incredibly fast. I have been asked what it means if we do not modernise the Wiv 2002. This means that Dutch soldiers on mission................................................................................................................................................................... I just got back from Mali. This is a very complex country, in which many groups are connected. Mobile devices are also widely used in Mali. Also for that we need this new Wiv not a bit fast, but very quickly. Failure to modernise the Wiv 2002 means that terrorist activities may not be recognised in good time, that the real intentions of countries at risk, for example in the field of weapons of mass destruction, remain hidden and that, in the event of rapidly emerging crises abroad, an adequate information position can be built up significantly less quickly. All this, of course, has to do with what I have just said twice, namely that communication has increasingly moved from the air to the cable. My colleague from the Interior has just indicated that the threats in cyberspace are absolutely real. They affect all of us: businesses, citizens, governments and institutions. We're all gonna get hit by it. The same goes for the DOD. The timely identification of cyber threats is essential for our security and for the cyber security of the Netherlands and Europe. The Netherlands has become a very important node of data. I refer, for example, to the Amsterdam Internet Exchange. In another context, I often talk about securing the flows, our supply lines, and that is one of them. It is also relevant here. The granting of cable access, as my colleague from the Interior rightly said, is of great importance to the Netherlands as a safe place to do business, a safe place to live, work and do business. I can give you many examples, but I have already summarized a few of them and I think they are enough to appeal to the imagination. Mr Verhoeven rightly referred to the obligation to notify, which was not met by the STUDY. The CTIVD has rightly established that. By the way, STUD has certainly used the right arguments not to notify. However, it has been established that insufficient guidance or coordination has been carried out, that too limited capacity has been made available and that STUDY in general and in a broad sense lacked awareness of the obligation to notify. In other words, it has simply not been given sufficient priority. The CTIVD has rightly established that the reasonable period has been exceeded and that the process has not yet been automated. It can't be. When I was a member of the Chamber, I made this a big song in the case of the AIVD, so frankly it bothers me if the STUD is delayed too and does not give sufficient priority to it. All the recommendations of the CTIVD have been taken over and that means that STIVD is busy with those recommendations and thus the improvement process. That process has already started. The aim is to have completed the backlogs up to the year 2016 by the end of this year. At the beginning of 2018, the 2017 notification studies will be carried out, after which the new notification studies can be carried out in time in the course of 2018. In doing so, I have answered the questions to my address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u374	I had a question about the preparations. We don't often read interviews with the head of the STUDY. So I was very curious about his interview in Trouw. In it, he said that when the new law comes in, we need to scramble information, and that he needs people to design digital filters and detection systems to get the right information out in a first split. I know you need people to do that, but if all these systems are going to have to be developed, I wonder when that's going to happen. Suppose this law is passed, then it will enter into force fairly quickly. But if all these designs still have to be made, even more so: if there are still people to be sought and accepted, when will that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u375	As soon as you have voted on it next week. Of course, we don't have to reinvent the wheel completely. Of course, there has been enough thought. This law doesn't exactly fall from the sky. It has been preceded by a full study and a detailed evaluation. The neighbouring countries have already had to go through such a route, for example Sweden and Germany. Those are countries that deal very carefully with privacy and security interests. They've been through the same trajectory, which, of course, we can learn from. Luckily, we don't live on an island.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u376	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u377	The head of the STUD says that all these detection systems and digital filters still have to be designed. The Minister says: no, that is not the case, because we already have it; we can take it from abroad. If all of these are still to be designed, I would like to wait until we know if we are already in the process of drafting the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u378	No. The director of the STUDY says it correctly: only when the law has been passed can you actually take care of the institution and do everything necessary for it. I think Mr Van Raak is very pleased with the statements, because we await the parliamentary treatment of the law first and then take further action. I only indicate that we do not live on an island, but that we can also look around and light our light elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u379	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. The written reactions to the amendments tabled are now being distributed, with the exception of Mrs Schouten's amendment to item No. 51. That will be an oral comment by the Minister. I suggest we suspend briefly. Then we have the opportunity to look at the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u380	Let's move on to the second term. Mr Verhoeven is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u381	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its first-term response. I have a number of points in front of me that I will try to make as ordered as possible. I will also try to respond in writing to the most important amendments. We just had to take it to us in ten minutes. Maybe we had a little longer for it. I'm gonna try to do it as ordered as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u382	Would you like to include the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u383	I'm gonna make some general points first. Then I go through four of the amendments. I will not now deal with all the others orally. It's gonna be way too long. First, I respond to the six points of the cabinet. I did not ask questions about the DNA database, at least in the first period, but not in response to the Minister's reply. It is good that this is now regulated by law. That shows that supervision is indeed working. I therefore agree with the Minister's explanation. On the subject of the journalist and the source, I will come back shortly with regard to the assessment of the amendment. I understand the explanation that it should not be the case that we are suddenly not allowed to follow a target because he happens to be calling a journalist and can hide by calling himself a source. However, it remains important that there should be no easier way to find out about the source of a journalist. In this respect, we remain in favour of our amendment and we hope that the Chamber will support it as a majority. I now come to the most crucial of the whole debate. That's on page 8 of the cabinet documents. This is about the amendment to item No. 34. It's about selectivity. That was the main point of the debate. How focused, how targeted, how unfocused or how broad is the research assignment-oriented way of collecting by the new law? I've asked questions about that before. The Minister mentioned examples. They've all been on the table. At that time I indicated that we seem to be close together and asked the Minister to settle that fourth point in the law as well. Then the Minister said: no, we mean almost the same thing, but I'm not going to do that, because "property" already covers it. But now, on page 7, the cabinet writes at the bottom of the response to the amendment to item No. 34 something that makes it clear in any case: "the data will be collected and analysed systematically and on a certain (large) scale." So both systematically and on a large scale. "To rule this out in advance does not recognize the nature of the research mission-oriented interception." I can only conclude by saying that the explanation we are giving and the limitation we would like to give to it simply does not correspond to what is now quite clear in relation to our amendment. The problem we are seeing will certainly arise. The examples mentioned by the Minister are not the ones that go farther. Within this law, far more far-reaching scenarios are possible. That's not what D66 wants. As far as we are concerned, it is clear, but it is very disappointing that this amendment is being dealt with in this way. The cabinet made the point that by peeling down what is and is not research-oriented, you would make the law technically dependent again. But why? What does the scale say about the technique you choose? I feel that this point at least makes it clear that the concerns of D66 have been strengthened rather than weakened. That's a shame in itself. I hope that the Minister will respond clearly to this one more time. But these three sentences are very clear. I'm here to tap the cable. Always came back: so does the rest. But it is also constantly said that there has been no foreign influence to have this law passed. That's what the Minister wrote. So I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. I have also made my point about the weighting note, namely that I continue to find it strange, despite the Minister's explanation, that a two-year transitional period is being created while those weighting notes could have been simply made. The reduction of retention periods is also not recommended. The Minister says: I have not heard any substantive arguments as to why it would be necessary to shorten the retention periods. It appears that in several countries, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, the retention period is much shorter and much shorter in practice, while there are no retention periods. Or you say we follow the practice and then we can also shorten it in the law. Or you say: we don't want to shorten it in the law, but then it's actually the intention not to shorten it in practice either. I find it disappointing that the cabinet does not want to make any movement on this point, when the whole Chamber has actually talked about the retention periods. The cabinet also does not follow the distinction that the CTIVD proposes between bulk data content and metadata, and that, whereas D66 agrees with the government's reasoning that metadata are different and should therefore be preserved for longer. But why it has to be three years is not supported in any way. Looking back a year and a half is really far back, especially in all cases where the cabinet always says: D66 wanted to know exactly what was going on. This was not about periods of three years at all, but about periods of a few months. So we are consistent in that. I come to the TIB and the CTIVD: the legal unit should be maintained. Why not the approach to interim proceedings versus ground proceedings, as we have outlined? In doing so, you have a much clearer test in advance and a supervisory role afterwards and you do not keep some kind of complex layering throughout the system, so that there is so much room for interpretation that, in combination with the legal space, which is scattered across all the pieces of the law, things can always happen that we do not want. The example that I have just given, namely that the cabinet is now saying very clearly that it is large-scale and systematic, indicates that it is only after a long discussion that it becomes clear what this law can contain. So it's not that crazy to see what this law can do. You can't just rely on: you have to trust that we're not going to do that. Based on what is written in the last three sentences at the bottom of page 7, you have to conclude: it is large-scale and systematic. I would like to stick to my point that, in this debate, we have had to look at a number of points in order to know where we stand and that we should not be stuck in abstractions, on which I think the Cabinet and the Labour Party's Group seem to want to descend a little bit. That's what worries me. It is a pity that nothing can be said about the budget of the TIB and the CTIVD other than what has already been said about it. I have not yet had an answer to a number of questions. The Signals Intelligence often misses the motivation of the selection criteria for the current power to tap over the ether. The new interception system is very similar to this. The government says there's a funnel in this system and it's gonna work. But how will the services improve the choice and motivation of selection criteria? How is it ensured that the TIB is there from day one? How are we going to avoid hacking and tapping telecommunications through automated voluntary access to databases? I would also like to get a reaction to that. How do we ensure a careful presentation of the outcome analysis? On the economic effects of the law, I will be tabling a motion in a moment. I also had a question about consulting informants: is it true that an informant can refuse to give the information if requested? I'd like to get another reaction to that. My final question concerns the retention of data on telecommunications. We are, of course, working on a new law on retention. This could make access to these databases easier for communication providers, and the cable would no longer need to be tapped. Hacking and tapping have powers and this way of collecting information, namely through the databases for communication providers, is not. So that is the way of the least resistance, and it can be found if there is such a law. Is that scenario realistic? Last but not least, I would like to discuss my other amendment, which is very important. That is my final point, and then I move on to two motions. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 36. I've filed nineteen, but I'm only treating two now. The other seventeen will perhaps explain to the Minister. These are the two most important ones. This amendment concerns the organisation of more contradiction within the Committee of Inquiry, the committee that tests the authorisation in advance. This too is not recommended. The involvement of experts would be something other than the organisation of contradiction. My question to the Minister, apart from that kind of terminology, is: will the cabinet somehow ensure that these three wise men, who will be on that committee, can actually organize their arguments, and that they are prevented from being sucked into the reasoning they always get from the cabinet? These are the documents on which they base themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u384	And now the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u385	We shall then come to the other 17 amendments. Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that companies warn of effects on the locational environment in the Netherlands when introducing this legislative proposal to renew the Wiv;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly examine the effects on the locational environment in the Netherlands in the review of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the performance of the tasks of the intelligence and security services must be accompanied by strong, independent and effective supervision;]] [[noting that increased financial resources for these services will also lead to more controlled activities;]] [[points out that the budget of the CTIVD and TIB should be increased in proportion to an increasing budget of the AIVD and/or STUDY,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u386	Finally, I will wait and see what the cabinet does with the other 17 amendments. I regret, however, that we have now finally got the clarity we could have had during the debate, as far as I am concerned, through a written reply to two amendments. You didn't always like me asking through, Mr. Chairman. That will be the case, but it is precisely that questioning that I believe is necessary in order to understand this law properly. It's 250 pages with a lot of ambiguity. These uncertainties should not lead to situations where we later say: we should have paid attention. I'm sorry some people can't take the last train home, but I really need us to handle these laws properly. I have tried to make a constructive contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u387	And you've been given all the space to ask the questions you wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u388	Mr. Chairman. If a fisherman is told in the future that he is not allowed to use a towing net, I would advise him to call it a "research-oriented net." Then he'll probably get away with it. I have announced that I want to look at the proportionality, clarity and effectiveness of this law. I listened very carefully to the ministers and I was not happy. It is very important that this law combats terrorism and protects citizens. Ministers refer to the fight against terrorism, cyber attacks and military missions as the reasons why this law needs to be implemented. I am convinced that a new law is needed, but I do not see why it is necessary to combat terrorism, cyber attacks and military missions to store bulk information on a large scale from citizens who have nothing to do with it. I am not convinced of this so far, especially since information that we store in bulk and unfocused can only be processed automatically, and the monitoring of it can only be automated. So it is about monitoring processes and not about individuals, while people may suffer the consequences. And if this unevaluated bulk information is to be shared massively with foreign services, which are covered by different legislation and are going to work with it in a different way, we will really lose it. If the government asks us to say yes to that now, it will be difficult. This also has to do with technology independence. I understand very well that the government says: make it technologically independent, because then we do not have to change the law every time. However, we are now legally laying down that future technological developments, which we have no idea of yet, are beginning to give us an idea, such as the Sony camera lens may be used. We also set out how they can be used and, above all, that we may be informed through the CTIVD band, but that the Chamber cannot decide on the use of these new technologies in a structural manner. And that's always the way it is. The technique continues and politics bumps after it. It is time to do that the other way around, namely that politics talks about technologies, what is desirable and what is good and how things can be embedded. It shouldn't be the other way around. The CTIVD has often given advice. There's also been a lot of changes in the law. But I see that according to the CTIVD, much remains to be done. What scares me most is that the CTIVD says that with this law, with these criteria, it cannot perform its supervisory function properly. All in all, we're not there yet. As far as the protection of our citizens is concerned, there is a whole other problem. We discussed this with each other in April 2014. How do foreign services deal with our citizens? That is not what this law is about, but the discussion should, of course, be about cooperation with other services. How do we ensure that friendly services treat our citizens properly? We have already discussed this in connection with the revelations of whistleblower Edward Snowden. A lot of amendments have been tabled; a lot. I just tried to read everything as best I could. The government says no to almost all of the amendments. That does not make the recital any easier either, because it actually closes the door for those parties who believe that the law is not yet ready. At least that didn't help me. I have made two amendments. The amendment in part No. 41 is about the limited right of change for journalists and lawyers that I would like to extend to notaries and members of a representative body. The government says, no, we don't, because the other thing is enforced by the judge. But, of course, we don't just do things here because they're enforced by the judge. I think politicians need source protection. I need that because otherwise I can't do my job. In addition, together with Mrs Voortman and Mr Verhoeven, I have the amendment to item No. 42 to stop asking journalists and aid workers, especially abroad, if they want to provide information and be agents for the secret services. I think it is very important that in our rule of law we keep these roles very clearly separate. The AIVD and the STIVD play a very important role. Journalists play them, too. Those scrolls can't be mixed. If the government asks me what advice I am going to give to the group on Tuesday or earlier, then I can say all in all that will unfortunately have to be negative. I regret that, because a new law is needed. If I've learned one thing in recent years, including in my contacts with employees of secret services in other countries, it's that they're all saying, "Your AIVD is a good AIVD, that's an incredibly good secret service." I get a lot of compliments on that. I'd like to pass it on. I know how important the work of the AIVD is and that a new law is needed. But this law is not the law I can say yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u389	Mr. Chairman. The answers of the cabinet have not yet been able to convince me. Nor does it help that the cabinet has discouraged almost all the amendments, all the proposals made by the Chamber to make improvements. I heard the Minister often say words like "in principle" and "logically." But that is of little use to us and to our citizens. The intentions of these ministers can be very good, but rights cannot be derived from good intentions. This requires strong safeguards in the law. The fact that the ministers do not want to regulate their intentions in the law is therefore disappointing. I have not yet received a clear answer to my proposal to place an AMvB under the law and to regulate which devices may be hacked by the services. The Minister just replied to me that the TIB and the CTIVD should take a look at that, but this is precisely something that we, as legislators, should be expressing. Why does the Minister want to regulate the decision on what can be hacked outside the legislature? For the sake of people's legal certainty, it is important to know which devices can be bugged. GroenLinks also considers the Minister's answers to be unsatisfactory about the towing network. It's a funnel that starts wide. The interception itself can therefore be unfocused: interception of persons without looking at who it is. It doesn't necessarily have to be about targets. No matter how you turn it or turn it, that's just not nothing. That the Minister does that as if it is only an extension from ether to cable, shows that he is playing down the impact, because how many people are communicating via the ether in 2017? This power on the ether therefore has a limited effect on the privacy of Dutch people, but the cable towed network has a great effect. I haven't heard much about effectiveness. Is it true that in neighbouring countries, in the fight against terrorism, bulk interception has been used and that this has made a real difference? Can the Minister respond that the investigation of the American CTIVD has shown that this is not the case? I would like to hear at least one of the Minister's arguments which, in fact, show that towing power can be effective. I want a factual basis. I would also like to be more clear about the size of what a towing net can contain. Did I understand the Minister correctly when he said in the first term that a research mission could cover all communication from the Netherlands to another country? In his own example, that was Syria. I hope I misunderstood that. According to the Minister, the services say that the retention period for towed network dates cannot be shorter than three years. I understand that they would like to do so, but why does the Minister make the judgement of the departments that are going to make use of the power outweigh that of many other highly expert parties who say that a shorter period is best served? I come to the Minister's reply on the sharing of dragnet data with foreign services. That, too, was far from satisfactory. The Minister seems to want to say that this is sometimes necessary and useful, and that the information cannot be read before we forward that information to the NSA, for example. With that much data, that wouldn't be possible. Can the Minister at least admit that this goes far too far for services with which we do not even have a partnership? These services are not always guaranteed to comply with human rights, democratic legitimacy and so on. If so, would the Minister not accept my amendment to that effect? With the DNA database, it's still weird. It sounds like legalizing something that happens, but it wasn't supposed to. I understand that it may be necessary to collect and store DNA traces, but for that the services can also rely on the expertise and services of the NFI, which the cabinet is cutting back on, but that aside. As far as journalistic sources are concerned, I agree with Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Raak. On the subject of supervision, I tabled an amendment aimed at making a binding judgement on the legality of the CTIVD. In response to my amendments, the Cabinet indicated that the CTIVD itself would say that it was not necessary, but I took up the CTIVD's response to the bill. This shows that it does consider it important that it should be able to give an opinion on legality. I don't think that's right. I'm concluding. For GroenLinks, this legal treatment has been disappointing. It's a very far-reaching law. You shouldn't be naive about that. You don't just have to agree to that all the time. But the Labour Party and the VVD are blinking and simply denying that this law can lead to far-reaching injustices. The CDA acts as if it were only a technical change. Any factual justification of the necessity is lacking. There is no concrete evidence of effectiveness. In fact, bulk interception in the United States has not made any difference in combating terrorism in any specific case. But facts hardly seem to matter. The lower abdomen prevails and a rational balance is snowed under. This was not even a debate in which security and privacy were weighed against each other, this was a debate in which privacy was given away, when we do not even get significant security back. We will therefore support all the amendments tabled by the SP and D66 and also put our own ten amendments to the vote, because every improvement is one. If not a significant part of the improvement proposals are adopted, GroenLinks will unfortunately be forced to vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u390	Mr. Chairman. Facts don't seem very... What did Mrs. Voortman say? Facts don't seem like there's much to be done? Well, I'll give it my own spin. They don't seem to matter, that's what Mrs. Voortman said. That was indeed the impression I had when I heard her speak. It's just that we're gonna go bigger, we're gonna throw drag nets in the water, we're gonna pull in unfocused bulk data, and then we're gonna see what we can do with it. That is not the case. Nevertheless, I shall now... Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u391	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u392	Oh, yeah, that's what the chairman's talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u393	In the next phase of your career, you may be president, but now you're just MPs of the Labour Party. Mr Recourt is making a bit of a caricature of some members of the opposition. Maybe not even mine, but I also tabled an amendment. We've had a discussion about that. I have looked at the extent to which the focus was present or not. What does the Labour Party think of the sentences that I have just read: data will indeed be collected and analysed systematically and on a certain scale; excluding this in advance, does the nature of the research assignment-oriented interception fail? If this text had been clearly stated in the law or in the note on the report, I would not have needed a seven-hour debate. What does the Labour Party think of those sentences? Surely we cannot continue to deny that large-scale systematic tapping is taking place. We'll just have to admit that, won't we? Then we can still make choices, all of which is allowed, but don't pretend that nothing is going on. You can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u394	I just wanted to say that the image came into being that we're filling our servers with data and then we're going to see what to do with it. This is also the example of the United States and the legislative proposal before us every time. Yes, bulk data is being retrieved. That's obvious, because it's necessary for the data analysis. But you have to motivate what you're getting this bulk data for. That's the famous research focus. I am about to table a motion to emphasise and enforce that further. That's why you can't say we're pulling everything in and then looking for a needle in the haystack. That's what I hear every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u395	This discussion has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u396	Very briefly, finally, if you don't mind. Okay, Mr Recourt has the right to say that we are not going to collect everything from everyone. That's absolutely true. But does Mr Recourt admit that my group has the right to say that we have been looking for ways to rule out what is happening, but that in the last ten hours we have not been able to make it any harder and that we have actually gone in a different direction? It is not surprising that my group is concerned about the scope, because the limits have not been indicated anywhere. In fact, they are in fact stretched further. Can Mr Recourt admit that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u397	Yes, I can admit that. I also understand that this must always be sought in the specific case, so you cannot do this with a ruler. In fact, I share that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u398	Mr Recourt says that images are being created, that falsehoods are being spoken and that they are simply being lied. And we've been working on that since 2:00 p.m. I am simply referring to a letter we received from the supervisor, not from the opposition, but from the supervisor who has to supervise what is going to happen, the CTIVD. It simply writes: it is precisely when large quantities of data are acquired, bulk, which is the subject of research-focused interception, that the fundamental rights of many people who do not justify research by the services are violated. Next, this supervisor provides five legal safeguards for data protection, which he believes should be brought into the law because they are not in it yet. Next, the CTIVD writes: despite the questions asked by Members of Parliament about the above-mentioned legal obligations, this is hardly addressed by the government. Hello! I think Mr Recourt's words are very great. He says here that as an opposition from 14.00 we create images, tell falsehoods and lie. Then the same goes for the CTIVD. I have to tell you, I don't think this is the way to do things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u399	It's a very short reaction. I'm not saying there's a lie. I say that wrong images are being created, namely that data are collected randomly and then we see what we are going to do with it. It is precisely those five examples that Mr Van Raak mentioned that I presented to the cabinet specifically and twice, once in my first term and once in an interruption, requesting that they respond. The cabinet said that we are not doing this, because we are doing this and we are doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u400	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u401	No! The government said we're not doing it. The government says we're not doing it, because it's already implicitly in the law. And the CTIVD says: no, it's not implicit in the law; it has to be in the law. So we are talking about the government and the official supervisor, who is appointed by the House of Representatives. I simply note that the Labour Party here is making a caricature of this whole debate, which we are now having from 2 p.m.! A caricature, and this law doesn't deserve it. We have had to wait for years for the law to come, and now, just before the elections, it has to be rushed through the Chamber in one day. We're all doing our best. We all try to be as short as possible by a law of 200 pages. I do not accept that the Labour Party is making a caricature of this!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u402	What I pointed out was precisely the caricature made by a number of members of the opposition to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u403	Yeah, you're okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u404	Mr Recourt started with the phrase "facts do not matter." He said that in my direction too, because I have cited the example from the US, among other things. But I have also referred to reactions from all kinds of other organisations, such as the Council of State and the Human Rights College. They also refer, for example, to the European Declaration of Human Rights. I think that's all pretty solid. I would like to know from Mr Recourt what facts he bases himself on when he says that the bill, as it stands here, and the powers in it will be effective. What facts does he base himself on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u405	In making sure it is in line with the ECHR, I can go all the way with it. In the second term, Mrs Voortman simply repeats a question about that investigation in the United States and how it happened. That question has been answered neatly by the Minister and that is why I think: the facts do not matter. In fact, Mrs Voortman continues to paint the picture that we are going to pull in random data without purpose and then look at what's in the tray. That's what I meant by my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u406	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u407	I have not heard a clear answer to my question as to what facts Mr Recourt is basing himself on. Apparently, he doesn't have those facts. If that is the case, he must admit that he determines his position here on the basis of the abdomen and not on the basis of rational considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u408	I myself gave an example of effectiveness in the first term, but the Minister also gave a few examples. Mr President, I shall continue with my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal applies the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity as criteria for the use of powers;]] [[considers that the use of powers by the services should be as targeted as possible;]] [[considers that this focus should also cover research mission-oriented interception, gathering information from persons or organisations for which the interception is not directly intended;]] [[noting that there is a discussion as to whether the above-mentioned legal standards sufficiently secure the requirement of targeting;]] [[points out that the legal requirements of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity also include the requirement to be interpreted and used in practice as criteria leading to the most targeted use of powers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas data obtained from research assignments may be retained for up to three years;]] [[Whereas the Government considers that a three-year retention period may be necessary for the proper performance of the services;]] [[considers that it is also important to limit as much as possible breaches of privacy;]] [[considers that this does not involve the storage of unnecessary data for an unnecessarily long time;]] [[invites the Government to forward the request of the Chamber to the CTIVD to report within two years of the entry into force of this Act on how the three-year retention period relates to the protection of privacy, including whether the interception of data has been made as targeted as possible and whether the retention period and the retained data are necessary for the proper performance of the services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u409	In any case, I have tabled motions on the two key points on which we still have some questions and concerns. For the rest, I would like to thank the Ministers and await their reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u410	Mr. Chairman. After all the crazy and populist attacks, it is time for a moment of peace and contemplation. And then you get to the PVV soon and I get to do the day closure. It's my part. During this debate a hand grenade was found at the Leidseplein in Amsterdam. That worked out well. No one knows what the background is. There is no indication of terrorism, but many people were terrified and there was a moment of panic. That was Leidseplein. Seven missiles were fired at Eilat in southern Israel, a beautiful seaside resort. Six months ago, I was swimming with dolphins. Fortunately, four of the seven missiles were shot down. In Paris there was an evacuation of a metro on the Place d'Italie. Many of us have been there. There is no indication that it has anything to do with terrorism, but there was a lot of panic again. That indicates that what we discussed today is hyper-actual. I wish things were different, but unfortunately we are on the eve of many of these incidents. There's not much reason for optimism. We will have a lot of terrorist attacks in the coming years and decades. I fear that the rest of our lives will be a bitter reality. A lot of things give cause to be very worried about that. The Dutch daily reports today that the most radical explanation of Islam is gaining ground. That's in Belgium, but that's not that far away. In The Hague, a few days ago, children aged 8 to 9 years had great sympathy with jihadist attacks, says the alderman. We have the Syrians who will return and have returned. We have the flow of illegals. Some people call them "refugees." We shall see that many of our soldiers will be strangers and put their lives in the balance. That is the broader framework of this debate. Anything we can use to increase our security must be taken on board. Today it was about the scope and about that beautiful euphemist concept of "research-oriented." It's lovely. I like that. Mr Van Raak mentioned opening the door in the first term. We open the door to a lot of things. Are there any strict criteria? Absolutely not. Indeed: on a large scale data and systematic. It just makes it clear what's gonna happen. Am I reassured by the fact that we have set up the TIB as a review committee that is going to act as a huge watchdog and which is going to cause conflict? No, I'm not. Has there really been any response to the objections to the CTIVD? Again, I am really impressed by the terms they used in their first press release and in their second press release. That second press release dates back a few days ago. They just say we can't do our job. They are our eyes and ears, of us as House of Representatives. So there's no reason to be excited about this law. It's a beautiful law to the letter. The law is well written. In practice, however, we will not be able to be enthusiastic about the law. No matter how you turn or turn, whether you talk about haystacks, towing nets or all kinds of other things that have been mentioned today, the practice is that there will be quite wide information shopping, which will be at the expense of privacy. That is very annoying, that is very not nice, but all those attacks and other things that are still waiting for us are much less fun. That's a trade-off. We are also opening the door to future technological developments. That has not been framed in any way. However, it is as it is. In view of the broader framework of the terrorist threat, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this law next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u411	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Bosma expressed a feeling that we all have here. This is a law that we would not want to see in this way. However, there is a weighting, a weighting between security and privacy. The whole debate has dealt with how this weighting will ultimately turn out. My input focused on two points. Firstly, the need for the new powers and, secondly, the adage: no powers without proper safeguards. I believe that we should continue to discuss this last point. Indeed, some of these powers are simply necessary. I would like us to live in a world where they would not be necessary, but that is not the case. The world inside and outside of this can sometimes be very angry and we must oppose the right powers. However, we need to continue to build in good guarantees to ensure that we have some insight into those powers. The CTIVD has cracked a critical note about that. This has also been requested here in the Chamber. On a number of points, I would like to thank the directors for their reply. I have seen that more points have been dealt with in the law than those we have mentioned in the first instance. For example, at the DNA database, I've become more convinced. I also see the dilemma with regard to journalists and their sources. I will support Mr Verhoeven's amendment on this subject, although I will wait a moment to see how that amendment will be amended, including as far as the definition of journalists and the like is concerned. I do not know whether Mr Verhoeven will amend the amendment, but I would like to take a favourable look at it. Next, a comment on the alleged towing network. At this point I see the need for a good watchdog. In my view, that is at the heart of the argument. Can the TIB and the CTIVD be adequately estimated or data not be over-focused, over-recorded and over-recorded? I am focusing on this, because I think we can make improvements on this point, particularly in the scope of the service. I told you, I was hoping the people of the TIB wouldn't be overwhelmed by all the work. I still can't make a good assessment of that. I still hope that this will not happen, but I do think that we should consider whether we should give the CTIVD and the TIB a little more room to carry out their tasks. That is also in the sphere of resources. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is crucial to strengthen supervision and safeguards when granting new powers to the intelligence and security services;]] [[whereas the CTIVD and the TIB together received an additional EUR 1 million;]] [[Notes that in the light of the new powers, it is desirable to strengthen the CTIVD and TIB supervisors;]] [[calls on the Government, in the spring paper, to put forward a concrete proposal for additional funds for the CTIVD and the TIB, in order to enable them to carry out their new tasks in the best possible way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u412	A second element in the safeguards I have mentioned is the role that we ourselves play in monitoring. It is true that it is always flawed, because that cannot be all openness. However, there is indeed a division of roles between the CTIVD supervisor and the Parliament. We have had a discussion here about what happens if the CTIVD finds irregularities and the Minister still wants to continue with the investigation and the relationship with Parliament. I have tabled a sub-amendment on this point, and I had already announced it to Mrs Voortman's amendment. She says, a little in popular terms, that the CTIVD may draw the red card. I say that this must be done through the intervention of Parliament. The CTIVD reports it, the parliament draws the yellow card and the parliament finally gives the red card. It is a little late, but I hope the Minister will be able to appreciate it. A third element that I have asked for attention to is the exchange of data with foreign services. What if those services collect data that could not be obtained from the Netherlands in a sec because there was no research assignment for that, but which do come with it through a study of foreign services? The Minister says that's already happening. I think it is important that the CTIVD should do a little more check on that, because of course this is only going to increase. We're going to collect more and more data. I don't think that's just a u-turn. The question is how high the risk at that point is that we are now going to collect all kinds of data from abroad, while here we are trying to legally regulate that cannot be done. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the intelligence and security services may have access to data through foreign partners which were not allowed to be obtained under the Intelligence and Security Services Act;]] [[Whereas this may be more frequent as a result of increasing inter-service exchanges;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CTIVD to investigate such risks in the exchange of data with foreign services, the extent to which such data is obtained and how the services handle these data, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u413	Finally, the issue of our own role in monitoring. In my view, the explanatory memorandum already contained a competition abroad. I know that there are different forms of parliamentary control of services abroad, and I think that we should always think about what our role is. Maybe we can learn from abroad. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democratic control of the work of the intelligence and security services can be further strengthened;]] [[Whereas, moreover, an international comparison of powers and supervision has already been included in the explanatory memorandum under the Intelligence and Security Services Act;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an international comparative study specifically on the design of parliamentary control of the work of the services, identifying possible models for strengthening the Dutch parliamentary control of the work of the intelligence and security services and sending the results to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u414	As I said, we will support a number of amendments. I have already mentioned some of them by Mr Verhoeven. I will take the overall assessment of the bill back to my group. Let me point out, however, that I do see that in this new era, with these new possibilities, the services must have sufficient powers to do their important work. In that light, we will make our assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u415	Very briefly about that last motion. Of course, the committee secretly investigated the future of parliamentary supervision by the committee secretly. In this context, I believe that an international competition has also been carried out. At least, if I'm right. If that is already there, of course we do not have to ask the government to do it again. Maybe the President can say more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u416	I know that there is an investigation into the future of parliamentary control or parliamentary supervision of services. Okay, I'll see if that international research is included. I'll take note of that. I only know that a different form has recently been chosen, for example in Germany. There have been more opportunities for this in Parliament. I have also understood that people are much more exempted to take on their role there. I don't know if that's been included in the investigation that's already been done. If so, we can see if we can join them. If it isn't, I'd still like to get a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u417	I had to check this out, Mr Van Raak, because, as you know, I am not part of the committee secretly. I understand from the Registrar that there was no competition in the course of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u418	So the motion will just stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u419	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u420	Mr. Chairman. I told you, I'll be brief. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its reply and, above all, for the clear examples that have been given. That has happened both from the perspective of the STUDY and from the perspective of the AIVD. These examples show how hard the bill we have discussed today is needed for the national security of the Netherlands, both within and outside national borders. My questions have been answered sufficiently. The Home Secretary said it strikingly: the only weapon against the current threats is that you must be able to see those threats coming. We can use it to prevent attacks. This requires that we do not tie our services behind our backs, but that we allow them to act with the right means. The VVD wants to enable the services with this law to do their job optimally. Because it is also true that his wise words, in the end, there can be no greater invasion of your privacy than the intrusion that is made when you go to a concert at night and don't come home. That is what we want to prevent, and that is why this law is urgently needed. I repeat what I said in my first term: we have no reason to have no confidence in the knowledge and skill of our services. I listened to Mr Verhoeven for 70 minutes today, perhaps even longer. Even Mr Verhoeven, who didn't really advocate this law during this legal process, said in his introductory words that the Dutch services are very well complying with the law and that this is a matter of confidence. I'd like to close with that. The services not only deserve our trust in what they do for Dutch security, but they also deserve this law. The position of the VVD vis-à-vis this bill may now be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u421	Nicely said by Mrs. Tellegen. I agree and I would like to give that compliment to the services once again. But let us all note that the fact that they adhere very well to the law is not because there is a kind of endless or limitless trust in the services, but also because there is a critical Chamber, is a critical review and is a critical system with which that law is monitored. That's what the Minister suggested. So we should not just say: the services are doing so well, so let's trust them and we don't have to control them anymore. If that is the portee of Mrs Tellegen's comment from the VVD, then I do not agree with her. I think that is not the port, and then I agree with her and I would like to underline what she says and what I said myself, namely that the services respect the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u422	That, of course, was not the port of my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u423	Is the microphone okay, Mr. Chairman? In the first term, he was a bit harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u424	Now he's on position one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u425	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank both ministers for answering the critical questions that my group had. I would also like to thank the ministers on behalf of the SGP, because Mr Bishop has now left the debate. He asked me to thank them on his behalf as well. We initially had critical questions, but some of them had selective hearing. However, my group had quite critical questions, first of all about the storage of information. Is the storage of the information well secured, under Dutch law? I have received an affirmative reply from the Minister to that question. That is very important for my group. Secondly, the Council of State had serious doubts about the law as a whole, in particular about the three-year retention period and the way in which it was guaranteed. In any case, the Minister has confirmed to us full of surrender that the Strasbourg proof law is. That too is very important for the CDA. The last point parked the minister. That was a pity, but we understand it, because this debate has been going on for quite a long time. It concerns the capacity and resources of the TIB and the CTIVD, the watchdog for the Chamber, as Mrs Schouten mentioned them. In addition to this debate, after the adoption of the law, hopefully, we will still look critically at the means available to the TIB and the CTIVD to always inform us properly as a parliament. Other parties have identified risks and have been critical of the law, and it is worth complimenting how we deal with each other, but in the end this Parliament, together with the CTIVD, is itself responsible for regular checks on the way this system works. I regret that, in the run-up to this debate, but also today, a lot of big words have been used, such as 'wash nose', 'dragnet','stamping machine', 'information sigh' and 'hooibergen', and that little has been said about how valuable this law really is for the safety of our STUDY and AIVD. We cannot send these services into the field with blinkers and say afterwards in this Parliament: I really do not understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u426	The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u427	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their second-term contributions. Let me stress once again on behalf of the cabinet that we are driven by nothing but by trying to keep the country safe. Of course, that must be done within the legal framework and within the international context, but that is what we are here for. Of course, that sometimes leads to a trade-off. Of course, that also sometimes results in a struggle. Of course, it also means doing things you don't want to do. I'd rather not do anything secretly. I'd rather we just ring the doorbells everywhere and tell them what we're doing. Every form of secrecy already has something in it of a struggle, of something you only do because it cannot be otherwise, because it has to and to prevent greater misery from coming from it. I've been writing along for a while. When it comes to retention periods, which is actually a rather technical part, it is said: 'I understand that the services want them to', I think: yes, but those services do nothing but try to keep our country safe. They have no sinister other underlying purpose. That's just what they're appointed for. That's the assignment, a burden. "Last" is an old-fashioned word for assignment. From the political point of view, we commission such a service: do this, to keep our country safe. There is always a difference of opinion about how it is set up, but that objective is really a common objective. For us too, within the framework of the law, it is the only objective we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u428	As far as your general introduction is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u429	I needed to get that off my chest, because sometimes it seems like we're pursuing something that wouldn't be shared. I hope that everyone sees that great shared interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u430	I'm really getting tired of it right now. I'm serious. First, Mr Recourt, then Mr Amhaouch and now the Minister for the Interior. I was elected here as a representative of the people to do my job. If there is a law here, I have the task of looking at it critically and asking critical questions about it. I know better than anyone in this room how good our security services are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u431	I don't know if that's "like no other."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u432	I'm serious. I'm gonna get thrown out of here like half a traitor when I do my job. So I've had enough of that! First, Mr Recourt, then the Amhaouch and now the Minister of the Interior. I'm doing my job here. I do not like it when I ask critical questions about a law here, just to ensure that the secret services can do their job, it is said: but you are not for the secret services, you are against the secret services, you are against national security. Because then we would not have had to have this debate and I no longer intend to have this kind of debate, because then it would not make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u433	I would suggest that we deal with the questions and motions. Otherwise, this debate will become even more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u434	I will do that, Mr President, but we want to remove this misunderstanding, because Mr Van Raak now feels addressed in a way which is not in any way intensified on my part. I would just like to emphasise the objective of the cabinet to come up with this law. I recognize that, as I recognise from members of the Chamber, there is always a struggle: what means do you find appropriate and what means do you not? I also respect the fact that others are making a different assessment. I give the cabinet's consideration on the basis of the objective we have. I'm also trying to be practical at this late hour. I have noted ten indents of the D66 Group, but I have also heard the conclusion. There will be no support for the proposal as it stands. I believe that 18 amendments have been tabled by Mr Verhoeven. For the most part, they have been dissuaded, which I realize for the reasons I gave in the debate and which I have also given in writing once again. We have been asked once again specifically for the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 34, but that is the essence of the proposal as it stands. So I'm gonna stick with that dissuade. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 37 which provides for a different way of introducing contradiction. In this respect, I say to the members of the Chamber: we are under great pressure of threat, against which we must take serious action. This isn't a debate club. We are not organizing a contradiction. We want to do what is necessary within the limits of legality to ensure that we do not become victims of attacks. So I'm sticking to the substantive advice I gave the Chamber. I hope that as many parties as possible will support that, but in the end that balance is up to everyone. The intention from the cabinet is to do this from the great concern for the security of the country. I had already answered a number of questions put by Mr Verhoeven in the first period, for example: can an informant refuse? Yeah, I said that. Yes, an informant may refuse to cooperate. That's voluntary. I don't know how strongly I have to answer that again. I really answered that in the first term; you can look for that in the Acts. I have talked about the amendments and the retention periods. I'll be right there on the motion-record. I heard him right. He says: let us look again in good time to see whether it is really necessary. I have said from the cabinet that we listen very carefully to the professionals who say they really need those deadlines. On the other hand, the Chamber asks: can we not keep a finger on the wrist there? The motion that has been tabled on this is a way of doing that. I would like to leave the opinion to the Chamber, but I do not want the opinion of the professionals to be overruled politically at the moment. That's just a substantive choice I'm making. I did my best this afternoon and tonight to get D66 on board this bill. Moreover, I have already seen Mr Verhoeven's views in advance through the social media and he has come up with so many amendments that I got the impression that he is actually saying: we do not need this law in this form. In any case, I gave an honest opinion on those amendments. I don't think I can get D66 on board just a little bit more. That is the political situation. I very much regret that, because I believe that the country's security must be in good hands, that we should not be naive about the threats we have and that we therefore need these legal instruments as discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u435	I don't think the Minister's operating very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u436	That's not my endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u437	No, it's obvious that's not his endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u438	"Not convenient."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u439	Not convenient, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u440	"Not convenient." We are talking about the safety of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u441	Not pleasant either; let me put it this way. First of all, make it clear that I have not been on a working visit to the AIVD, to which I have responded athletically, then drive Mr Van Raak out of the room with remarks that were not productive at all. He is not coming back either; that is his choice, then pretending that those who are critical of this bill do not intend to make the country safer and finally also point to messages in social media. I ask the Minister, I defy the Minister, to take up a message from social media that I have tabled 19 or 20 amendments as a cover for the appearance of the debate and then vote against it. That is not the case. I had hoped that some of these amendments, not all 19 but some, would be feasible. I have shown this clearly in this debate. Then, at the end of this debate, in the written reply, it suddenly became very clear what the Minister refused to say for hours. Then the minister should not now come up with tricks like "you haven't been to work" and "you've already said something on social media." Then the Minister has to be honest and say: D66 wants to make the country safer in a certain way and I want to make it safer in a certain way; we have had an honest debate, but we have not found each other. No tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no tricks, no I'm really gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u442	I'm gonna stay here, Mr. Chairman. I gave my opinion on the amendments. We shall see how many parties agree with the D66 amendments. I do not know whether Mr Verhoeven is speaking on behalf of Mr Van Raak, but I assume that this is not the case. I did not recommend the amendment to include notaries. I refer to the first term. The same applies to the other amendment. Again: I have no doubt about the intentions. I am often assured of the support, interest and commitment of Mr Van Raak and the SP in terms of the importance of the security services. I appreciate that very much. I have discussed with Mrs Voortman whether or not to define the techniques which may be the subject of the use of special powers. I am referring here to the first deadline. I have not convinced Mrs Voortman of the usefulness of the new instruments laid down in the law, even though I have done my best in the first period. I have also pointed out that similar powers are governed by law in all the surrounding countries, such as Belgium, Germany, Sweden and the United Kingdom. We are working closely with these countries. In the context of this cooperation, it is extremely important that we have these powers. I hope I can convince her with that. I'll leave it at that. I thank Mr Recourt for his support. As for his motions... I'll be on the motions in a minute. Mr Bosma and Mrs Schouten have expressed a feeling that I recognize. I have just repeated this in my introduction. Of course there's a struggle. It wasn't a joke that I said in my first contact with the head of the service that it's rubbing. But this is really always rubbing. That is the nature of secret activities of a secret service. I recognize that feeling very well in itself, but it's really necessary that we do this. I would like to thank Mrs Tellegen for her contribution and support. The same applies to Mr Amhaouch. I understand that he is also speaking on behalf of Mr Bishop. I'll get on the motions. I reject the Verhoeven motion in part No. 53 because it gives the impression that the location climate is deteriorating. It is precisely in the interest of business. I referred to that earlier when I was talking about a safe place to do business. The same applies to his second motion, in part No. 54, which calls for a proportionate increase in the budget. I'll be on another motion on the budget in a minute, but I don't recommend it. In his motion in part No. 55 Mr Recourt said that the legal requirements of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity involved, it could at least be read that they could lead to the most targeted use of powers. That would be my explanation, too. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The same applies to the Record motion on item No. 56. I was just referring to that. It calls on the government to report within two years of the entry into force of the law on how the retention periods work out in practice and on how useful and necessary they are. As I said, in Mrs Schouten's contribution, I recognized the search to be able, despite the hesitations, to support the bill. In this context, too, although I said in the first place that I think the budget is sufficient at the moment, I would like to make the judgement on the motion in part No. 57, which asks for the spring note to look again at funds for the CTIVD and the TIB, to leave to the Chamber. The same applies to the discussion of the risks involved in the international exchange of data and the request to the government to ask the CTIVD to map this. That request is set out in the motion in part No. 58. I would like to look at the timing of this, because of course the CTIVD also has a work programme. I should like to leave the opinion to the Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u443	In the past, Mr Schouw and Mr Segers have already tabled a motion to see whether foreign services comply with human rights and so on. This has been included in the CTIVD's six-month or annual report. I can imagine that this goes along with it, because that is a natural time to report on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u444	It is a new thought for me, but that seems to me to be a workable form in itself. If the motion is adopted, we shall do so. Then I come to the motion on part No. 59 on the international comparison. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too. If the motion is passed, we will do the same. Mrs Schouten's sub-amendment to item No. 51 refers to the amendment to item No. 32, that's not recommended. I will continue to dissuade that original amendment. This would make it a little bit better, but I still have the amendment in part No. 32 dissuade. In doing so, I thought I had contributed to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u445	Mr. Chairman. I'm tired and everything else is tired, so I'm gonna keep it real short. I sincerely regret that the tone of the debate has just taken a certain turn and that even a Member of this House has left the Chamber. It was no one's intention to accuse people of treason here. That's what's bothering me. I have heard Mr Van Raak and all the others very well. There is one thing I know for sure: everyone here stands for national security in their own way. I have also heard all the compliments to the services. We are not made of sugar, we are not made of stone, so I was surprised to see how this debate developed. I would like to say one more thing about the retention period. In fact, there is a lot of zoom in on the national task in particular. I am referring in particular to the question of whether the retention period for the AIVD is useful and useful. I can tell a whole story about this, but I am mainly responsible for the STUDY, so I would like to explain once again why it is so important that we do have a three-year period. That is, of course, based on something, including experience. I repeat that military deployment requires intelligence prior to the actual deployment. We can't get past that. Building such an information position is really a long-term process. I was just setting the example of Mali. It takes a while for you to map all these connections, and have an insight into the local authorities, the security situation, the relationships between them, the geographical conditions and so on. For this, historical data are indispensable. We are also very often longer present in operating areas. Think of Afghanistan; there we were ten years and walking. Mali; three years and running. Gulf of Aden; eight years and running. It shows that those retention periods have been considered. Once again, the Home Secretary has said it very well: this is a maximum. All non-relevant data shall be sent to the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. I also say to Mr Verhoeven, who seemed to ignore the fact that you have several stages in the so-called funnel model. A lot is overcome by intermediate test moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-10.u446	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the law, the amendments and the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors, the officials, the MPs, the staff and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
