ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the defence budget. I would like to welcome everyone in the public gallery or people who are following this debate in a different way, especially, of course, the Secretary of State and Secretary of State for Defence. This is your first budget treatment and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Popken as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me take you on an imaginary journey from here, the House of Representatives, to the centre of Amsterdam. When you walk out of the Lower House, you will see them immediately: our men and women of the Marechaussee. In the city centre of The Hague, the pollers are standing up permanently to slow down car traffic. The alderman in The Hague has indicated that the municipality does so because The Hague has to take account of attacks, such as in Stockholm in April this year. Walk further towards the station, then men and women of the military police are also at the ministry of JenV. When you catch the train at The Hague Centraal, you notice no soldiers. Our men are not allowed to wear their clothes in the DV, as this could have an escalating effect on fellow passengers. Button this right in your ears. We do not want to provoke the terrorists and jihadis into an attack by letting our soldiers wear their uniforms. From The Hague Centraal you sometimes have to change to Schiphol. Here too, our military are protecting our airport, especially since the attacks on Zaventem in March 2016. After this switch one finally arrives at Amsterdam Centraal. Additional concrete blocks have been installed here to prevent attacks such as in Nice in 2016, where an Islamic terrorist drove a truck into innocent people. If one walks up the Rokin, there are also concrete blocks placed, just like on the Dam itself. It was an unknown phenomenon for the Netherlands: soldiers in our street view. But not only in the Netherlands but throughout Europe soldiers stand ready in the big cities to defend people and objects against the jihadists, against Islam. All these measures have become necessary to reduce the risk of attacks, so that we do not have to add a Dutch city to the list of Stockholm, Nice, Paris, Saint Petersburg, Zaventem, Manchester, London, Barcelona and Manhattan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	The PVV spokesperson keeps a whole story like our Defense Department is defending us against Islam. Nothing could be further from the truth. Our Defence personnel are protecting us from all forms of terrorism, from extreme right-wing terrorism, from Nazis, from extremism, from all those terrorists, not just from the people you mention. I'd like you to correct that. Otherwise, people will get the idea that our soldiers are only for one purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	As far as I know, the attacks I just mentioned by terrorists with a Qur'an in their hands are screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think there has been one terrorist act in the Netherlands in recent years. That was in Enschede. Those were right-wing extremists in broad daylight in a mosque where kids were throwing incendiary bombs. The D.A. said it was a terrorist act and they went to jail for four or five years as a terrorist. So if you want to protect the Netherlands, start working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	I would like DENK to be so concerned about those dozens of attacks that have been committed with the Qur'an in hand. Let me be clear: my party rejects any form of violence, including the mosque you just mentioned. But let us not forget the real threat to the Netherlands and to Europe. That is the Islamic threat and Islamization of the Netherlands. And as a good MP, you should not only be able to ask questions, but you should also be able to read questions and answers. If you had read the answers to your own parliamentary questions, you would have seen that the Minister himself states that Islamic terrorism is causing the great threat in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	I suggest you continue, Mrs. Popken. Mr Öztürk, you will soon have the opportunity to ask a follow-up question. No, you haven't been addressed. We are doing the interruptions in two: a question and a follow-up question. Maybe it's a good thing you're listening. We are doing the interruptions in two: a question and a follow-up question. You asked a question and a follow-up question. So I'd like to ask you to wait. Soon you'll have the floor and then you'll be able to make another interruption. I suggest you continue, Mrs. Popken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	Madam President. Understand me: my group is absolutely not against putting these blocks in place. On the contrary, but how crooked is it that, despite all these threats, this government leaves its borders wide open? Jihadists who see their IS caliphate spatter, come through the migration flows to the Netherlands to continue their jihad here. How crooked is it that this government continues to broadcast our military, mission after mission, while Defense itself should not be able to protect our own territory? The PVV finds it incomprehensible that this minister wants to invest extra money again in missions, as we could read last Friday. But I don't read anywhere that the Defense Department has to protect our own country as well. I don't read anywhere that there's a lot of extra money being spent on that. Yeah, a lousy $600,000. That's not the beginning of a start. Why is there money for mine cleaners in Africa but no money to keep our borders and our territory safe? I'd like a response. The Brussels bureaucrats see the free movement of persons as a cornerstone of the EU, but the free movement of persons is actually a free movement of terrorists. The EU facilitates Islam on our continent. And protected by the ECHR, pampered by the PvdA and embraced by D66, Islam here in the Netherlands can continue to spread its poison. The PVV believes that the Defense Department should once again guard our borders and secure our territory. That's where our priority should be. The PVV is investing in Defense. We want to use that money to prepare the Defence Organisation for the dangers that are coming to us, because the people are crying out for additional measures against potential jihadist attacks. Our borders must be closed as quickly as possible and permanent border controls must be established. There needs to be more marechaussee on the street and on important nodes. The PVV wants the military to be able to wear the uniform in the O.V. What does this minister say? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Our borders are also at sea. There we need a strong Navy to protect our ports, maritime borders and trade routes. But they're also in the air. We need an air force for that. Let me take a sting out of the speech of our EU-loving colleagues. The PVV is for international cooperation, especially in the defence field: in NATO or bilaterally. This is how we defend the airspace together with the Belgians. This is done on the basis of equivalence, with two like-minded people, with the same culture. So that is not an EU dictatorship where unelected bureaucrats determine it from above. No, horizontal, bilateral cooperation based on equivalence. The PVV is mordicus against an EU army or all the steps leading to it. Because even the greatest Europhile must realize that it will never work. Mr. Chairman. Then our Navy. Once upon a time our maritime pride, which feeds the seven seas. Our tricolor was known and notorious all over the world. Can the Minister comment on the reports that our navy is walking on her gums and the frigates are no longer able to carry out their battle duties? We'd like a reaction, and then we'd like to go a little bit more elaborate than we recognize the problem, and there's money coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	Will you finish now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	Then I suggest that Mrs Popken finish her story and then you have the opportunity to ask questions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with an approved motion from the PVV, something that should have been settled long ago. I'm talking about the payoff arrangements for defence personnel. It is clear that the PVV believes that defence personnel should have only one loyalty, namely the Netherlands. For my group, there is no place within the Defence Organisation for double-nationals, let alone for the government to facilitate the buy-back arrangements. Minister Blok has announced that this arrangement will be abolished for police personnel. My question to the Minister is whether the Secretary of State is: when will the Defense Department follow? Finally, Mr President, the PVV is certainly critical of this government, but we are very committed to our men and women who serve our country with heart and soul and often under difficult and dangerous conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	A bit back in the speech, I heard Mrs Popken say quite clearly: in fact, the borders must be closed and we must protect our own borders. Of course, that sounds super simple. You could even say, "Yes, maybe we should all be there for that." But somewhere in this story, I always think, something just doesn't add up. You do not have to close it across borders and all the economic consequences that this has for, among other things,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	...our very large transport sector in the Netherlands. How do you see that? Do you really want border guards everywhere? Do you want to buy tanks again? Do you still want cooperation with the Belgians when it comes to airspace protection with the F-16... or do you even want more? Can you tell us a little bit more about these rather naive statements you make about protecting our borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	It is, of course, striking that Mrs Belhaj points out to me the disadvantages of possible border controls, while I would like to point out to her the disadvantages of open borders. Look, they're causing attacks in Europe. And not one, dozens. Which means not one, but dozens, if not hundreds of people are going to die because they're being killed. And if you want to avoid that, you can invest 1, 4 or 10 billion dollars in Defense, but in the meantime, if you leave your boundaries open, all those ticking time bombs are coming in, and they're running around the street. So that's not the answer. So I would like to say to Mrs Belhaj: if we are going to talk about naivety now, you will look at your own point of view and look at the disadvantages of these open borders, which are becoming very clear, attack after attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have the feeling that Mrs Popken has missed that it is mainly many jihad fighters who are products of our European countries, who are leaving for Syria and Iraq. The opposite is perhaps more important. It has also been shown that many attacks are being carried out by people who already live in that country, who have not crossed any borders at all, who simply decided in that random village or town to take idiotic actions one day. So close your borders does not prevent people from taking those actions. You agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	If I can find a supporter here in D66, that in addition to closing our borders we also have to de-Islamicize our country, because that is what I am actually making up from Mrs Belhaj's story, then I would certainly like to talk to D66 about it. Look, it's obvious that the boundaries are close just not the solution. That is why the PVV has been advocating de-Islamicisation for years. The combination of these two will allow us to counter these terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	The PVV's position on Europe is clear. But here's what I was wondering. You were quite upset: there should certainly not be a European army. But if you were to work together now and it would be economically and innovatively and for all kinds of other reasons much more profitable, and you would not do it because it is a European cooperation, but because it is economically more sensible and smart to do so, would the PVV consider it for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	As indicated, my party is not against cooperation. If we can work together with countries, as we are already doing with Belgium and Germany, because that is much more economically advantageous, because then you do not have to invest twice in your air force, your navy or your army, yes, that is of course a huge advantage. But look, we would be naive to think that as a good boy in the classroom within Europe, we also have more of an inch to bring in against superpowers like Germany and France. With regard to the military industry of France, we are not even a mini grain of rice. Of course I follow Mrs Diks' speech. I totally get it. It also fits into her ideal image, but it's not realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mrs. Diks, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	If I understood you correctly, you said that you might think it was a good idea to work with our neighbouring countries Belgium and Germany. In any case, this is more economical and it is simply good for the state of our defence. Suppose that this cooperation extends at some point to 27 countries with revenue: economic, innovative and you name it. Why would the PVV oppose it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	This is going to be a very large bilateral cooperation. I am concerned that we should not be under the yoke of unelected European democrats as far as our defence is concerned. That is the way we are going with this bunch of unelected bureaucrats in Brussels who think they know better and still want to draw more power to them, who want power over the Dutch army and over the Belgian army. That's what my party says: you shouldn't want to, because you're always losing that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mrs Popken. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr President, thank you. Every day, our men and women of the armed forces commit themselves. They do this not for themselves, but for their parents, their children and all the other Dutch. They protect our external borders with the most valuable they can offer: their own lives. In countries around the world, our armed forces are working on peace and security. I am very grateful to the military for that. That's the job these soldiers have to do with good equipment. Over the last few years, there have been several worrying reports about this material and the state in which it is located. Whether it is the air defence and command frigates of the Navy, the equipment of the commanders, the army or the deployment of helicopters and aircraft of the Air Force, the military who are to deploy this equipment, deserve that it is in order and that they can work safely with it in order to carry out their mission properly, peace and security in the world. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet is now firmly pursuing the upward trend under the previous cabinet with investment that strengthens the basic readiness and strengthens the support of the operational units. That's what needed to be done. The letter of amendment has already made a first move to take the first steps to improve basic readiness. That's quick action. Without wanting to do anything short, I would like to say that I am very happy with the final purchase of the Reapers, the MALE UAV and the MQ-9. This is an important source of intelligence that we can use very well in many places. Think of domestic engagement at major events, but also possible drug control on the Caribbean and, of course, the deployment in the crisis area abroad. This type of capacity is crucial for the performance of the task and the improvement of safety in the performance of the task. These Reapers are welcome at Leeuwarden Air Base, I would say. And there's more money coming to defense. This money benefits the better employability of the armed forces, investments in new equipment and good employership. The VVD would like to follow closely where the money is going. I would like to ask the Minister if she can take the Chamber with her in the spending and spending of that money. The basis for the deployment of the extra money will result from the Defence Note that we can expect for the first quarter of 2018. The VVD looks forward to that, but the VVD would like to give a shot. The VVD looks at the armed forces as a Swiss pocket knife: a lot of knowledge and expertise in the house and thus able to act independently, within clear frameworks. These frameworks may be: as an independent unit within a larger entity or as a genuinely independent unit. And yes, I do use the term "Swiss Pocket Knife" here. It's from the final report of the 2008 reconnaissance. It's about a versatile military force. I understand that the Minister is not going to say anything about this, but I will give the VVD's vision for consideration. I look forward to the choices of the rulers in the Defence Note on the future of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	Before we move on to the future, let's look back at where we stand and how we got here. Many reports, including the Court of Auditors, show that the armed forces are squeaking and cracking on all sides. This has to do with substantial cuts on the one hand and having a versatile military force on the other. Why does the VVD Group simply want to continue on the old track? Why does she want to keep doing everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	We're not gonna go on the old foot. There's gonna be 1.5 billion more. Maybe Mrs. Karabulut forgot. So we're not going to go on the old foot. There will be a strong investment, precisely because we consider defence to be important and because, especially as a country with about the sixteenth economy of the world, we have to play an important role in all parts of the world with that commitment. For example, we also have our own part of the Kingdom we are responsible for. So all these cases just add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	Do you recognise that the decisions taken over the last ten years have put pressure on the Defence Organisation and created unsafe conditions? If so, what does that mean for the decisions to be taken in the short term in order to return to various missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mrs Karabulut is putting a lot of things together now. I think that's unwise. She rakes a number of things together like the cuts and unsafe situations. It's also a piece of culture. A cut doesn't mean you have to make it unsafe. You have to deal with that carefully, your security organization needs to be in order and you need to be able as a multiple to monitor and correct your minorities. It doesn't have anything directly to do with the resources you spend on it. It's a piece of culture and it's a piece of spending. All that care comes with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr Bosman ends his wish list when it comes to spending the extra money. Does he also intend to invest in the people of Defense? Because I only hear him about equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	That's the tricky thing: if you can talk for 20 minutes, you start somewhere. Of course I come to the staff, because that is really the core of my story in a moment. Anyone who knows me a little knows that I think the DOD personnel are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	I always start with what's most important to me, but you can think differently. I like to wait and see what the stakes are and how the extra money is spent on people and not just on equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	I suggest you move on, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	That seems perfectly logical to me. Mr. Chairman. Defence, together with civil aviation, is a user of Dutch airspace. There is a possible reclassification of airspace for airport flight routes and more efficient use of airspace. I have the following questions to the rulers. What role does the Defense have in these air space talks? What gravity is assigned to having an airspace for defence use? Is there any possibility of sharing areas at times when Defense doesn't use the defined airspace? The Coast Guard of the Caribbean is now entirely under the responsibility of the Defense Department. Has the budget been fully transferred, I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister. Was there any outstanding maintenance at ships and/or installations? Was money already reserved for that and if so, did that come with you to the DOD? How will the damage caused by Hurricane Irma to the military installations on Sint-Maarten be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mrs. Bruins Slot is already standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Bosman is right to ask a number of questions about airspace. Among other things, he asked: can we use this together and what possibilities are there for that? I would also like to ask him an explicit question about this. Now, of course, we have the problem of Lelystad. Is the background to the question also to ask the Secretary of State and the Minister if they could play a role in resolving Lelystad's problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	So that's a question to them through Mr Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	No, Mr. Chairman. I ask Mr Bosman for his opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	My question was widely interpreted. I understand the discussion that's going on. I am not personally a spokesman on this, but it is important. I think it's much wider than just Lelystad. Of course, we really need to put economic interests and military interests together. That is why I asked the question whether the heaviness of practice and training, not only with aircraft, but also with artillery shooting, is well taken into account in the economic interests, which, of course, I support wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	I see that balance too. I also think it is important that the directors also look at the situation in Lelystad. On the other hand, we actually have very few practicing units in the Netherlands. So it's important to accomodate what we can do. Look at the artillery shooting camp. That is also my question to Mr Bosman, because it is important to make sure that we are really going to hunt all the units abroad to practice there. That would also be at the expense of the visibility of the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes, if you have to travel a lot to do your bet or your training, it's not always the best economical and in terms of efficiency. I am therefore very much in favour of this, where possible. That is why we need to make agreements with the civil airspace dividers and the military airspace dividers. They need to come up with a clever plan together, where it might best be that we don't use the Harkamp but something else. If that can be resolved in this way, then I am very much in favour of it. Mr. Chairman. A job at Defense is and remains a wonderful job. I myself served for 23 years with the Royal Air Force as a military kite. I am still looking back on that with great satisfaction. It is certainly a challenging profession and it also requires a lot of yourself but also your family to be military, but I've been given a lot in return for that. I hope that the present and future generations of soldiers will experience that, but a lot has changed. When I stood up for flight training in Eelde in 1987, there was still a functional age discharge, the so-called flo, at the age of 55. With that old arrangement, I'd go with flor in three years; sorry, I'm telling you something. So with that old arrangement, I'd be with flor in three years. And that while in society outside of the Defense Department, we're seeing that retirement age go up and up. So that perspective has also been adapted within the Defense Department. That is also good, but that does bring with it a number of problems. If you want to have a pyramid structure of age structure, coupled with a balanced function house, it's gonna get tight when you raise the firing age. So that's what we're seeing now in the DOD. Compensation resulting from this increase in the age of dismissal is set at at least 90%. According to the judge, that's an adequate solution. The question, however, is whether the Secretary of State will be able to review all options in the future's policy paper on the development of human resources policy in order to assess whether the best solution has actually been chosen. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In addition, there are many complaints about a limited flow to the higher grades. Whether those complaints come from Petty Officers, so Corporal, Sergeant, Sergeant Major or Adjutant, or from Captain, Major, Commander or Colonel, the feeling is that the promotion is locked. Due to reduced perspective on flow, people are going to look outside the organization and also leave the Defence Organization, because there is no other function ahead for them. As a result, Defense does not have the opportunity to choose the people who would be most suitable for the job. The spots are filled and the function house is wall-locked. That's something that really needs to be adapted. I therefore call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to keep a close eye on personnel policy, the office house and the problems of influx and outflow. Only when all the problems are addressed will a good organisation emerge. I ask the Secretary of State to take a look outside the beaten track of the existing Defence structure. In 2006, I participated in an essay competition from the Defense Department on tomorrow's defense. I was captain-flyer then. In that piece, I asked why there is no 35-year-old general in the Defense Department. Then I don't mean years of service, but really a high potential 35 years old, who, for example, with Shell, Philips or Eneco just becomes manager, director or sometimes even CEO. In the DOD, you have to get through all the hoops before you reach the next rank. Why can't a good captain be a direct commander or a corporal not directly a sergeant major? And why did someone who has been out of service for a while and returns to his service, supposedly stand still? Those are people who, through their work outside of Defense, can have added value to the organization. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? That brings me right to the reservists, a group that can have that added value for the organisation. With knowledge from outside, they can improve the Defence Organisation and with knowledge from within Defence they can improve civil society and make the importance of the armed forces discussable in places where Defense would not otherwise be discussed. What opportunities do the rulers see for the reservists? Is it possible for a reservist to become a general? What is the relationship with business and are there barriers to, for example, insurance? Because the VVD believes that this skillful and flexible shell has an absolute added value, not only because of the knowledge of the reservist, but also in that ambassador function. Defense offers young people a bright future. You learn to work there with the most advanced techniques. You put it in front of the Netherlands and you make the world a lot safer. But then all these training courses within the Defense Department would have to be civil certified. All training within the armed forces must be a plus for a possible job outside of Defense. It can't be that as a military person you have to take completely new courses in order to be a bit of an attractive candidate for an employer in the civil world. The fact that people are gonna flow is a fact, so make sure they're well-equipped. If the training courses have a civil certification, they are also comparable to the civilian outside world. It only makes training in the Defense Department better. It is good to read that more and more connections are being made with civil training, but as far as the VVD is concerned, defence training has added value if it is civil certified. I ask the Secretary of State to involve all of these matters in the drafting of the memorandum of order of the future. The personnel policy at Defense must go to the 21st century. Still a cry of hearts, Mr. Chairman. People who commit criminal activities such as theft, violence and threats do not belong in the armed forces. And that certainly doesn't fit in with internal handling. In cases which are punishable by the Code of Criminal Law, it is simply necessary to report them. That responsibility for declaration lies with everyone who has taken note of it. The examples are already horrible and scandalous enough. How can you so humiliate, damage and destroy people, so I ask the perpetrators; if it were your son or daughter, would you have done the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	Do you finish this part first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	This part's finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	The latter has been taken from my heart, so I thank Mr Bosman for bringing this up. I have a question. Following recent reports on the events at the barracks in Schaarsbergen, the Secretary of State said that she would set up a committee and also a temporary hotline. I insisted on making the hotline outside of Defense permanent. How does Mr Bosman view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	It is important that there is a cultural change, so that people just report it; that a commander, or anyone else, is able to file that report. And that we all realize that if you're looking at something you think I would do that to my daughter or my son? and the answer to that question is no, preferably intervene or otherwise simply tell the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	Of course, I agree; everyone should be a hotline and everyone should feel safe to report within the Defense Department. But I think Mr Bosman also knows that the practice is always different: people are afraid of their careers, they are afraid that they will not be heard. Would it not be better to set up a permanent external hotline in addition to internal mechanisms in view of everything that has passed over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	If we put these kinds of systems outside the organization, I don't think the organization gets any better. That's my personal opinion. Then you leave it out, then it's settled again outside the Defence Organization, and people think again: if there's a problem, we've done just fine outside the Defence Organization. No, I think we should keep repeating that responsibility lies with everyone in the organisation: from citizen to military, from soldier to general. That's where the responsibility lies. We cannot say it clearly enough: you have to deal with it internally. It doesn't give a damn about doing things like this. It's impossible to deal internally. Anyone who, if something like that comes up, still thinks, "Oh, something has happened, and I deal with it internally," can also, as far as I am concerned, cross the fence. Anyway, I'm not about that, but in my experience and passion it would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	For the VVD the border is clear: uniform not in order, too late, your work is not done; these are all things that can be handled internally via the military system. All other cases ask, no demand a report to the state's attorney's office. These are all levels, grades and positions; no one is excluded from them. And I'd like to take care of business as soon as possible. On Monday, for example, there was a story in the media about a soldier who unloaded his weapon wrongly, shot his colleague and almost fatally wounded him. It has eventually become a community service, because the process has been delayed for three years. I don't know if this was with the Defense Organization or the D.A.'s office, but wait three years! Punishments must be pronounced quickly, so that the relationship with the offence is still clear. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State agree with the VVD? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The VVD is proud of the men and women who defend our country, the military who defend the standards and values of our society in countries all the way to the other side of the world, the technicians who keep our equipment in order and all the support staff at all locations of Defense. The Netherlands is a small country with great ambitions and this coalition agreement brings those ambitions closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	I agree. It brings the ambitions closer. The question is whether this will happen soon enough. Does Mr Bosman think that, looking at the budget, it is going fast enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is an everlasting discussion, about a difficult task that we as politicians have, namely the redistribution of a scarce good, and that scarce good is called money. Within that responsibility we have to look at care, education, infrastructure, security and also defence. I believe that we are now firmly committed, with the steps that have been taken in the previous cabinet, with the steps that are now being taken and with a strong look-through to 2021. I think it would be wise to deposit the money with the Defense Department in such a way that it can also be deployed and be brought to maturity in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	That's not a very encouraging answer. The VVD believes that achieving NATO standards is an eternal discussion. No, we agreed to be there by 2024. Those are the terms of Wales. We must indeed redistribute here, within the agreements we have made. This is simply an international agreement that we have made, namely that within 10 years we will go to the NATO standard. Is the VVD gonna do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	I never doubted in the discussion about it. I did say that we need to grow to it and that we need to have that responsibility. I believe that everyone within NATO has that responsibility. I feel that responsibility, but I do make every effort to make sure that the balance is made and how best to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm surprised I don't hear the VVD about the pressure on the Defense Organization. The General Court of Auditors, as well as the OVV report on the fatal shooting in Mali, make one thing clear, namely that there has been robbery at the Defence Organisation. What does this mean in your eyes for the ongoing missions, specifically for the mission in Mali?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	I said that training and training are very important. How are we going to train people in such a way that they are able to do their job well and how do we ensure that there is money for it? I am glad that there is already initial money for the basic readiness and commitment. That's a good thing. In this way, we must ensure that we enable men and women to do what they have to do. There is also a need for a change of culture in the discussion. If something can't be done, no must be said. I think the CDS has made this very clear. This is an excellent learning tool and an excellent means of pressure to ensure that things are put in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	That is not an answer to my question. One of the reasons why no one says no is political pressure. The General Court notes that we do not actually have the insight to assess whether the operational readiness for the people to carry out all those missions that you want to vote for is in order. So my question is what you will do with that information, knowing that there has just been an incident, knowing that there have been debates on this matter, knowing that a minister has resigned, knowing that there is a new Commander of the Armed Forces. Is it just going on, business as usual? Should I believe Mr Bosman that all these problems have been solved in a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	It's special. Mrs Karabulut pretends that nothing has happened, as if the organization has learned nothing, as if we are not learning from our mistakes. It has been very clearly stated, also by the CDS: no is no; what cannot, cannot. That's a process that the organization has to go through. Political pressure arises if you say yes. If you say no as CDS, it's done. Let us also make this very clear with all of us. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	I was given the impression that Mr Bosman indicated that he would sit still, if I may put it that way, until the rulers come up with the new Defence Note. I asked in the legislative consultation: would it not be wise for the Chamber to get closer to that process, so that we do not always let ourselves get caught up, but get closer to the process? Would you be interested in that? In fact, I intend to put forward a proposal for this tomorrow at the procedural meeting, to see if and how we can set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	I did say it. I have asked the rulers to inform us about how the money will be spent and how the money can end up in the right place in the right way. That's what I said. I do want to watch out for it, then I talk from my past, when I was spokesperson for the Defence Department in a previous period of time, that we ask for Defense with all kinds of reports, every week: is it green, orange, yellow or red? Then we have a debate on this and we ask 40 further parliamentary questions. I know that there will then be political pressure from this side on an organisation that really needs to get to work to put that organisation in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	But that discussion will be held tomorrow at the procedural meeting, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	It is, I think, a good thing to talk about it in the budget today. I fully agree with you that it is certainly not the intention to bury ourselves under paper, or to bury us under paper, I say. I'm not looking for that. I want the Chamber to be more involved in the decision-making process in order to work towards strengthening the basic legitimacy. I hope I can find the VVD in there by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes, but this is an important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	Yeah, but a short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yeah, I get that. The point is that we are not sitting in the chair of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Let's make a deal a little bit ahead of time. That's where the choices are made. I took a shot for myself and said: the VVD looks at versatile employability. That's the Swiss pocket knife. But, of course, it is up to this minister and this Secretary of State to start that process, to write that policy paper for the future of the armed forces. Of course, I think we should be involved in deciding how much money we are going to spend, how it is going to be spent, how it is going to be used, how it is going to be done and how efficient it is going to be. Again, it's not about us being buried under that amount of paperwork, but it's about the assignment we give to Defense to deliver that paperwork. We need to stop that right now. That's really the most dramatic thing we've ever done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks. You're very pleased with your answer, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	He didn't hear that. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also has admiration and awe for all those people in Defense whose daily work it is to guard and protect the lives of others, sometimes at risk of or loss of their own lives. That is why, in my view, the situation in which the defence industry is currently operating is so disruptive. The new rulers will hopefully be at the top of their to-do list to restore the trust of the military in the organization and politics. We have, moreover, been somewhat surprised by the division of tasks between the Minister and the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State deals with both material and staff, and the Minister only does foreign cooperation and strategic choices. Is the workload in the Minister's eyes proportionate? Mr. Chairman. I've indicated before that it cracks and squeaks in the D.O.D.'s office. The organization is under enormous pressure on all sides. The first method to alleviate the need is that more money will be available. That is good, but that money must be spent carefully and adequately. The problems in the defence sector are numerous: ammunition and other equipment are inadequate, there are major internal problems with security culture and awareness of security, and there has been an iron supply of vacancies. Thanks to the Swiss model, which was chosen by the previous cabinet, we have brought a coarse cheese bowl across the entire organisation rather than saving it in a targeted way. Defence's basic tasks are clear: defending its own and alliance area, promoting international order and stability, and helping in crises and disasters. In the area of Hurricane Irma we have seen again how badly needed and useful the help of our men and women was and is on Saint Martin. GroenLinks intends to present a proposal to the Defence Commission tomorrow to hold a round table with stakeholders, experts and scientists before the ceremony to hear from them the most sensible way to spend the proposed additional structural budget for Defence as efficiently and effectively as possible and to what form and composition Defence in the Netherlands will be able to develop with this additional budget. Do we hold on to everything a little bit and sometimes only half or do we really make rigorous choices in the new Defence Note? GroenLinks therefore considers it so important that the Chamber becomes more closely involved in two matters. Firstly, the provision of information on the restoration of basic readiness. Secondly, the strategic and operational choices made in the new Defence Note. How do the two rulers view this? Do they have any ideas of how they intend to involve the Chamber in the creation of the new Defence Note and the restoration of basic legitimacy? I see nodding. I think that's very positive. Hopefully, they're not just planning on burying the Chamber in pieces. It's just that I'm concerned that we're getting into conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	We come to a bit of a chicken-or-egg discussion anyway. Defense is now being asked to make strategic choices, but you can ask Defense for anything. If you say you want 600 planes, Defense will arrange 600 planes. It's an execution organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	If Mrs Diks thinks that something needs to be done in operational readiness, we in the Chamber will have to come up with a ruling on what defence will look like. That's also related to geopolitics. So it's kind of a weird question, because what are you asking of the DOD? Should they now come up with a different kind of operational readiness?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	No. Then maybe I was unclear after all. To be honest, I have the idea that VVD and GroenLinks are closer to each other than Mr Bosman hopes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	You didn't know that, did you, Mr. Bosman? Something's blooming!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	I do excellent business with GroenLinks, chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	It shouldn't get weirder! The point is: I very much agree with Mr Bosman that we should keep our eye on the fact that Defence is an implementation organisation. So here, in this house, we decide what needs to be done. How this should be done is up to the ministers, but the budget and the frameworks come from the Chamber here. That's perfectly clear. So the question is how we are going to discuss the way in which we come to these frameworks together with the rulers. We must, of course, have the right information before we can make the right effort. That is also what I would like to raise tomorrow in the procedural meeting: how are we going to organise it? There's gonna be a lot of budget. I have every confidence in the rulers, but I sincerely hope that we will be able to come up with a system to get more involved, for example with the extra 425 million. We can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	It's possible. I do not yet have it in mind, perhaps we should work on it at the procedural meeting, but I now have the feeling that as a Chamber we should come to a majority on the number of aircraft and ships in the Defence Department. If that is not the case, it reassures me. In any case, that would be unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	I agree. That is why I have just made it very clear what the tasks of defence are, what we are in. The assignment we give them from this house is: arrange it, within the framework and within the budget. At least that's how I felt. I was therefore very interested in the fact that we are talking about how we are shaping this. I understand that it may not have been possible, but we suddenly had to decide on the letter of amendment within a few days on the basis of poor information and broad lines whether we would add huge amounts of money to the defence budget. We must do this without knowing exactly what plan is behind it. And then I kind of think of it as issuing uncovered checks, and I don't recognize that at all from the CDA. I don't mean that as entrapment, I just don't recognize it. We assume that cyber will at least become a spearhead in the new choices, especially given the current threats and what is included in the government agreement. GroenLinks also sees cyber as an important new threat. Can the Minister confirm that cyber will be a major issue? GroenLinks has already expressed a positive opinion on further European cooperation. We also had a little debate on this with the PVV. What role does the Minister see here for the Netherlands? How is she going to ensure that Dutch economic interests are also well served? Mr. Chairman. Defense and sustainability, it seems a bit of a contradiction. Nevertheless, GroenLinks sees that a new battle is also possible with the Defense Department when it comes to sustainability and the reduction of CO emissions. For example, what is the state of progress in the sustainable defence strategy, which, as far as I am concerned, sees not only the functioning of the organisation itself but also the materials and the like that are being used for support. Can the Minister promise that the sustainability aspects will now be explicitly taken into account when purchasing new material? I will table a motion on sustainability tomorrow. It's a little unusual to bring that up in the first term, but I thought it would be wise for both rulers to sleep on it. Because, as you know: Leeuwarden, Fryslân is the cultural capital of Europe in 2018. And then you feel it coming, I'm afraid sustainability will be an important program. As an icon project, the so-called Eleven Ways Tour will be launched in July. Then dozens of companies, schools, villages, organisations and municipalities will not use fossil fuels for two weeks. Would the rulers like to see whether it is possible for the air base in Leeuwarden to participate in this particular project? I thought I'd just let you think about it all day. Mr. Chairman. The defence organisation has an iron stock of various vacancies. And it's been for years. As defense appears in the papers these days, that won't change very soon. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make defence quickly an attractive employer that offers plenty of training and flowing opportunities for a long time? The VVD also contributed to this. How does defence ensure that the internal culture of gender inequality, discrimination and a sometimes distorted and humiliating culture is turned into a positive and stimulating working environment that is safe for all workers? The examples of sexual abuse, drug use and trafficking are also unacceptable. GroenLinks advocates an external hotline where employees can safely report their complaints. Mr. Chairman. The Permanent Commission for Defence had requested additional information on the identified unsafe storage of anti-tank munitions and smoke grenades. We haven't received it yet. We have also heard nothing about the re-examination of the care facility around Kidal at MINUSMA. Does the Minister understand that this information is essential to allow proper consideration of the extension of ongoing missions? For GroenLinks, lowering the standards for healthcare is not negotiable. Unfortunately, as long as this information is not sufficiently clear, I cannot give my foreign minister a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA. Mrs. Diks, you are not allowed to speak to cabinet members during the debate. The same goes for the cabinet members. The Minister knows that very well. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is proud of our military. In the coming years, a further 1.5 billion will be added to rebuild the armed forces. The CDA is happy with the extra money. After more than a quarter of a century of austerity, it is a historic increase in defence expenditure. This is not a luxury but a bitter necessity when we look at the deteriorating security situation in the world. To be even more precise: the deteriorating security situation around Europe and therefore our borders. There has been a border of instability around Europe, both in the destabilising action of Russia and in the various countries of the Middle East and North Africa. Then it's about vulnerability to terrorist attacks, people and drug trafficking. Meanwhile, Russia's geopolitics is back. Russia is holding an exercise with 60,000 soldiers. Russia is making massive investments in its military and Russia is also perfecting its hybrid warfare: combining old-fashioned weapon clatter with disinformation, cyber attacks, espionage, disruption of democratic processes and influencing news on social media through troll campaigns. The Netherlands is particularly vulnerable to this as a digital node. That should also be more in the minds of the Dutch. This concerns our vital infrastructure, such as energy supply, water supply, the Amsterdam Internet Exchange. With digital means, you can really shut the Netherlands down. It is important to protect and arm ourselves against this. The CDA therefore welcomes the structural availability of EUR 95 million for cyber in the coalition agreement, as I say to Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mrs. Karabulut wants to interrupt, but first finish your piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	It is worrying that cyber defense runs over many disks. We have an international cyber strategy, a defence-cyber strategy and a national cyber strategy. What role does the Minister of Defence see in ensuring greater unity of action? How does it see the role of Defence in strengthening and cooperating with business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	The justification for the CDA in this cabinet to pump more money into intervention missions, because that is what I understand from your story, is that the world has become more unsafe. Can the CDA, Mrs Bruins Slot, explain to me what the war on terrorism has resulted in over the past 16 years? It was intended that terrorism would be eradicated and the CDA, together with many parties, has consistently agreed to all kinds of missions in the highest spectrum of violence...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	I do not think that Mrs Karabulut does justice to the situation in the world. I think that the efforts of the Dutch military in Uruzgan have been extremely important to bring peace and stability and to give people a future there. Then it is really poignant that a party like the SP just wants to cut a billion dollars in defence at the moment. You can make all kinds of bold assumptions, but you also need to look at the decisions you would make about Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	What is distressing is that a political trick is being done here as if I were to lose our men and women and as if you were only going to stand up for it. You're gonna have to stop doing that. That is not the case. My question to you is very simple: what has produced sixteen years of interventions under the guise of "war on terrorism'? I can tell you that this has brought us more terrorism and more civilian casualties, that there are more Islamic terror groups, in other words, that this war has become counterproductive and infinite. Perhaps it is an idea to do something about that strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	Let me begin with Mrs Karabulut's first words. Then she didn't listen to me very well. It was not an attack on Mrs Karabulut about how things are going, but I actually conclude that the SP is cutting a billion dollars on defence. That's just a big amount of money. I believe that the contribution made by the Netherlands to the fight against terrorism is very significant. This is done on a daily basis by our services, which are doing a very good job in this respect, by the fact that we are now operating in Mali and by the fact that we are now operating on the borders of Europe. With this, defence contributes every day to ensure that the Netherlands and Europe can be much safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	Please continue. No, Mr Öztürk has a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	I would like to go further on this point, because Mrs Karabulut asked a fair question, but has only two deadlines. What did it really do? It has only resulted in extra terrorism, additional deaths, additional civilian casualties, additional children who have died. Have all those billions we put in actually brought the peace we all preach here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	What Mr Öztürk says is far from my point of view. This does not do justice to the enormous efforts made by the military, for example in Afghanistan. Mr President, as you know, I myself was on a mission to Afghanistan and, as platoon commander Pantserhouwitzer and the other military forces, I was able to contribute to a safer environment, which allowed girls to go back to school, thereby improving health care and making it safer there. Mr Öztürk now insults all the soldiers that day in, day out, contributing to a safer Netherlands and a safe world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	That's too easy. That's too pathetic. We support our military. We send them to areas where they can actually bring safety. This behavior causes insecurity. Are the kids in Afghanistan going to school now? Do they all go to school in Syria? Or are they in the grave? We also dropped bombs, I say to the CDA spokesperson, causing civilian casualties. We've made mistakes, too. As Mrs Karabulut rightly says, the strategy may sometimes be revised at the CDA, rather than keeping the story as if we were losing our defence. We don't lose our defenses. We're behind our boys.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	It is good to hear Mr Öztürk say that he supports the men of Defence and that he supports the efforts of the men of Defence. But that also contradicts himself, because the men in Mali are contributing to countering terrorism and instability. They do that day in, day out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	The growing instability around Europe, the growth of major powers such as Russia and China, Trump's message to keep our own pants on, make it very important to invest more in defence. 1.5 billion is a lot of money, but not enough to reach the European average. And the AIV is right to say that even with 1.5 billion in addition, defence expenditure is still too low. It is necessary to grow to that 2% in the long term. Mr Bosman also said it. How does the Minister view this? So the Minister and the Secretary of State both have the task of building a strong military force. The CDA is aware that this is a major challenge. Defence is a mammoth tanker that has to shift the course of two decades from austerity to investment, from shrinking to growth. And that change of course wasn't just completed. That starts with building trust. An important task is to regain the trust of the staff first. Staff have been extremely loyal in recent years. That is the positive side of the can-domentality. The first step is to close the gaps in the road and also to remove bottlenecks and shortcomings. Human stuffing is still declining. Enough staff, and in the right place, is crucial here. The CDA also has many expectations of the Adaptive Armed Forces. How are the rulers going to make sure that the DOD gets enough staff? The discussion about the pension gap is still ongoing. In the context of good employership, it is also important for the Defence Department to make an overall assessment. Would the Secretary of State still like to look again at the financial effects of the AOW pension gap, to look at this in its entirety and to weigh it down as well? And perhaps also to see which possible directions of solution might still exist. Maintaining staff is also a major problem. Mr Bosman said the same thing. The Flexible Personnel System is a millstone around the neck. Young petty officers and officers can't flow because there's no place. How are the rulers going to give them perspective again? The CDA also calls for commanders to be told more about their personnel. The staffing process is highly centralised. Commanders have no or no responsibilities. The process is therefore viscous. It also leads to outflow. People are on hold for a long time for a decision. How does the Secretary of State intend to more decentralise control of staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	Making staff more attractive is a very important point. Staff have been extremely dissatisfied in recent years, and they still are. Does this mean that there is also a possibility for higher wages and more attractive working conditions, and for, for example, resolving the AOW hole of defence personnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	I just asked the Secretary of State about the AOW-hole. Does she still want to look at that one more time? I am therefore curious to hear her answer on that point. The other point rightly points out to you. It's about rewarding the staff. Luckily, there's an agreement now. I really hope that the unions are behind that. Friday, for example. Then it will be: together we will discuss pensions again. We still have one. I would particularly like the unions to be able to take steps together with the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	Do you see growth opportunities in the coming years, for example? Many economists, but also the cabinet itself, are advocating wage growth, as wages will grow in the market. Do you see any possibility that wages in the Defense Department will also be more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	I think there are two aspects to this. Fortunately, the agreement now before us, which still has to be approved, includes this growth. And it's also badly needed, after years of standstill. On the other hand, you can see that you want to work with adaptive power with an alternating current, so that you can also retrieve certain functionalities. I think we should also look at flexibility around that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	And that's the kind of thing you need to look for. However, it is also up to the directors to consider this, together with the trade unions. Where else is there perspective? Mr President, I was talking about personnel and the control of commanders. The effectiveness of the control model is also important here. It is now too centralistic and bureaucratic. The former Commander of the Armed Forces, Tom Middendorp, General Middendorp, also criticized his steps. He said: "I also hope that within Defence we will be able to bring forces together better and bring centralised services and responsibilities closer to the operational commanders." The CDA is curious to see what the new leaders want to do with this constructive criticism. Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the directors sent a letter of amendment in which they will make the necessary investments. The CDA supports these investments. The CDA is concerned about the size of this amount for 2018. It's only 178 million now. This means that for 2018 there is still more than 730 million on the shelf at the Ministry of Finance. How does the Minister prevent that money from remaining on that shelf this year? It is also important to use the additional funds responsibly. After all, this is about taxpayers' money. Defence's operations have improved in recent years after years of poor report rates, but there are still shortcomings in purchasing management and the logistics chain. The CDA would also like to see monitoring of the use of these additional funds. Would it be an idea, for example, that the Audit Service should periodically report on this? At the same time, NATO expects its Member States to submit their plans for the implementation of the Wales Defence Investment Pledge before the end of the year, as Mr Dijkgraaf has already mentioned. Is the Minister able to comply with this? How does she want to do this? Because, of course, the Defence Note has not yet been written before the end of the year. With this first money, we can really work on raising the basics. Last week the worrying state of the air defense and command fregates came into the news. The most modern frigates in the Netherlands have major technical problems, are limited and cannibalized. The CDA talked about this two and a half years ago with the then minister, that she saw this too. What's happened since then? And how does the Minister look at these signals? In its last opinion, the International Affairs Advisory Council also found that the state of the Dutch armed forces is very worrying. He is actually saying that the aim of getting the basics in order by 2020 at the earliest is serious and irresponsible. He says it has to be faster. My question to the rulers is: can this be done and what is needed? But the real choices are made with the Defense Note. The focus should be on the continuation and maintenance of the current armed forces so that they can move on to the strengthened armed forces. The CDA still stands for that versatile military force. The question, however, is, and I heard this in the debate, what it will look like now. The environmental situation has changed enormously since 2010. There are more and more diffuse threats and also hybrid warfare. The risk of simultaneous deployment in the three main tasks has also increased. How does the Minister see this versatile military force? And how do we adjust the strategic focus on a hybrid large-scale conflict? In addition, you can see that there is insufficient balance between combat units, combat support units and logistics units. Without good logistics chain, responsible medical care, genius, air defence, intelligence capacity and fire support, the fighting units on land, at sea and in the air are still. So repairing is looking straight forward. It's not easy going back to what we had but at the same time being ready for the new challenges. We are talking about the longer supply of communication equipment, interoperability, drone deployment, the armament of unmanned aircraft. What is the Minister's view on this? For the CDA, priority is also given to restoring the military's strength. Of course, it is first and foremost up to the military organisation to balance these choices with the rulers. I already heard it in the discussions, and as a CDA member I would not want to be an armchair general here, who, from my position, would say exactly what Defence should look like. But is it also being considered, for example, as part of the impact force, to return the tanks to their own management? An innovative and involved industry is of great importance to be able to make this battle. The CDA is proud of that defence sector. He forms a golden triangle with the knowledge institutes and the Defense Department. It is important that good and rapid cooperation also sets foot on the accelerator. How will this innovative cooperation and research be further developed? This is also about the innovation research needed to facilitate new developments. Is there an extra investment in that? Does it stick with what it is now? What are the plans for that? You can always see that currency fluctuations and price increases are a recurring bottleneck in the much-needed investments in Defence equipment. This leads to less and slower purchases. That's very undesirable. The government agreement states that the cabinet will come forward with proposals to increase the predictability and resilience of the Defence Equipment budget, such as a specific price index or a structural solution to currency fluctuations. When does the Minister come forward with these proposals? I have two more points of interest and one more closure. The military is committed to peace and security in various missions worldwide. It is important to evaluate these missions and to learn lessons, I also say to Mrs Karabulut. We must always do this afterwards, of course, in order to take it up again next time. In some missions that is not only quite fast but it is also important to look again five years after that. The CDA would like the Minister to conduct a post mission evaluation for Uruzgan. I would like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	I have a rather informal question. There are people who say you can't actually be a good Defense spokesperson if you haven't worked at the Department of Defense or if you can't be a good Secretary of State or Secretary of State if you haven't been a military officer. You worked at the Department of Defense. Hence my very open question: do you think with your Defence background that you can't be a good Secretary of State, Minister or Spokesman if you haven't worked there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	No, I totally disagree. Let's get someone like Angelien Eijsink, former PvdA spokesperson. I've called her a militarized citizen before. The way in which she has been interested in defence, has shown herself involved and has stood up for veterans shows that we all have to listen carefully and come up with good solutions and suggestions. It is important that we have people who may have worked in the defence industry as well as people who have not worked there. And I've been a care spokesperson for years, but I've never worked in health care. The same applies to other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	What about you, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	Well, shouldn't we talk about that, Mr. Chairman? In any case, I am pleased that the politicised military who stands here is in favour of the evaluation of missions. But how can it be that the CDA is blocking it when I ask Mrs Bruins Slot what lessons she is taking from Mali or what that means for the mission that we are about to discuss very soon, or when I propose at the procedural meeting that only a hearing be held on the security and employability of military personnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	That is a very sharp question from you, but you also have two hats on: you are the spokesman for the Defence Department and the spokesman for the Foreign Affairs Department. The extension of missions is discussed within the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	But also tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	There will be technical briefings on Monday. In my view, several general consultations follow shortly thereafter. There you will hear my colleague Martijn van Helvert speaking as spokesman on the extension of the missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	But it's about the military deployment of the Defense Commission. It's just super handy that I'm doing both. I'll admit that immediately. And also fun, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	I'll bet you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	I think the spokesmen have just been divided up with you again, and you may be handed over next time. But my question was why, if that is so important and given the OVV report, you blocked a hearing to hear experts on military security. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	Let us mark two things well. When it comes to the OVV report, we still get the Van der Veer Committee. It is important that we discuss this very extensively. And Mrs Karabulut is talking about a hearing. She has indeed made a proposal with GroenLinks in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to do so. That is indeed blocked there. Then she asked DOD again. Let me say, however, that I said this to Mrs Karabulut at the time: we are also going to have a general discussion on the issues that have happened with the KCT, the Corps of Command. I also said to Mrs Karabulut: by then, just come up with a proposal to weigh everything there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	So I recognize the image in part, but not entirely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention two more points and come to a conclusion. I've had one now, the second is Lelystad. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Bosman on this. A huge debate on the use of airspace and the expected nuisance. It's about civilian and military airspace. What possibilities does the Minister see to contribute to a solution? Mr. Chairman. You know the expression: what a farmer doesn't know, he doesn't eat. And it's still like that. It is important that defence is once again more visible in society. This enhances people's understanding of the importance of work in defence. But it can also increase the attractiveness of the profession for young people. In the past, this visibility has been cut back. Think of the open days, for example. And it is important to make more work of the visibility of the armed forces. Think of soldiers in front of the class, who just show what they do every day. Think of a good use of social media, perhaps relaxing the uniform ban, if possible, given the security situation. But also think of the public swearing-in of soldiers on a square in Arnhem, so that people can also see how that goes. In what way does the Minister intend to increase the visibility of defence in society? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a valuable country. The Netherlands lives in a period of relative peace and that is not a peaceful possession. Veterans can tell us more than anyone why it's important to commit to a safer society. Peace and security is not self-evident. We have a lot to protect. Our freedom, our health care, our schools. And a strong military force is our best insurance policy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr. Chairman. It's a crisis in the defense organization. This is seen by an overload on defence personnel, which we see as a result of an overload on the equipment, a crisis that has arisen because the last ten years of predatory work has been carried out on the defence organisation. While cuts were being made, our people had to keep fighting in the highest spectrum of violence. While the equipment was not in order, expensive JSFs had to be purchased. While military interventions made the world more unsafe, the response of successive governments was always an intervention under the heading of war against terrorism. In addition, there is now a new escalation policy with the Russians from Europe. A kind of craving for a new Cold War. Let me be clear: we choose relaxation. Relaxation, instead of a Cold War and further escalation with the Russians. For years, the SP has made a clear choice for fewer missions and a compact military force, which can support peacekeeping. Mr. Chairman. Others also said it: I have a great deal of respect for men and women who, after political decisions that fall here, risk their lives, often for ideal reasons, because they want to improve the world, just like you and me. But whatever you stand for: a versatile military force or a compact, security and well-being of our boys and girls, the defence personnel, must be paramount. Does the Minister agree with us? What does she want to achieve in the coming years? The stories of the men I have spoken of opposition, abuse and oppression do not stand the light of day. Why does this happen over and over again? We've also had whistleblowers who have been suppressed before. A number of defense personnel have just been really destroyed. We now have meters and meters of research. The question is: what is going to happen in concrete terms with all these meters of research? Why is the Minister, or in this case the Secretary of State, not in favour of an external hotline? Can the Minister promise us that all those people who have reported to the newspapers, to the trade union and perhaps to the defence sector will now be given all that security and taken seriously, which has not happened before? Mr. Chairman. Recently a study by the Veteran Institute appeared on the experiences and findings of veterans. The study gives a fairly positive impression of the veterans' judgment. Nevertheless, 13% claim that they still have complaints related to their work, mostly abroad. 5% is even very negative. That is a large number, it is also a minority. Are the Minister and the Secretary of State thinking of additional measures? What will happen in the coming years, on the basis of what vision, we hope to receive detailed information very soon. But I don't see a few cases that should have been solved, like the AOW-hole. Why isn't this problem being solved now? What are the rulers doing against the defense drain? Why decide to continue with all kinds of prestige projects, such as expensive submarines, the JSF and even drones? I would suggest that we do not buy new expensive material now, but first invest in staff and then, on the basis of clear choices for a type of military force, shape the further material implementation. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it: the Reaper, the unmanned plane, the drone, with which intelligence can be acquired. The Minister wants to buy these. We know these devices mainly from countless attacks in countries such as Pakistan and Yemen, often killing civilians and often violating international law. Will the Netherlands be able to participate? During the debate on the fatal mortar accident, it became clear that the can-domality, together with the political pressure, makes it difficult for the defence organisation to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	I am a little surprised at what Mrs Karabulut says about those Reapers, those drones and the deaths and the question whether the Netherlands wants to participate. I don't know what that has to do with the drones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	If you want to buy these things and then want to arm them and use them elsewhere in interventions without there being any clear frameworks for them, then the question is whether you want to participate in them. Hence the question, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	That is interesting, because it is about the frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	A drone is nothing but an F-16 or an F-35. There is still a pilot, there are still Rules of Engagement and there is still a responsibility for shooting or not shooting. So it's really bullshit to tell these kinds of stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	Since when is it bullshit to ask questions here? Maybe you think that's bullshit and you already know everything, but I don't. After 11 years, I still learn every day and I still ask every day. That's my job as a controller of power. Furthermore, in countries such as Yemen and Pakistan, there are unwittingly civilian casualties and a great deal of concern, including from human rights organisations, that this is happening outside standards. This is a new development. My question is, and I assume that the answer will be clear I see that I have the VVD at my side whether these things should eventually be armed and within what frameworks that should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	No question has been asked to you, Mr. Bosman. Proceed, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the mortar accident in Mali. That fatal mortar accident took place because defective material had been purchased under political pressure. The mission had to continue and all this, as it turned out later, while the medical facility was not in order. Is the Minister shaving behind the new Commander of the Armed Forces, who, shortly after his arrival at the commando commanders in Rozendaal, said: do you, by definition, do war in a situation of shortages? In other words, those boys and girls shouldn't be whining like that? That the can-domality isn't a problem, is it, when a minister and a commander of the Armed Forces have just resigned? Or is the Minister taking lessons from the Mali incident? Is she behind the harsh conclusions of the OVV report? Or is she critical of this report, just like her predecessor? Mr. Chairman. As I said, we are still getting a comprehensive international security strategy from the Minister on how she thinks she can make the world safer and what kind of Dutch armed forces she is aiming for. But there are two things that it seems to want to continue, namely the fatally failed war against terrorism over the last sixteen years and, as it now seems, under the leadership of Europe, work towards a European army, opening up another front of war: a new Cold War with the Russians. The Commander of the Armed Forces there he is again on Sunday on TV told us that it is part Cold War. Does the Minister believe that we have entered the era of a new Cold War? What does this mean? Does the Minister recognize that the war on terror, which has been going on for 16 years, has simply failed in several countries? Does she recognize that? Mr. Chairman. In De Telegraaf last Saturday there was a nice interview with the minister. She said that frigates should be replaced, like mine hunters and submarines. Then De Telegraaf asked: Can all this be done? No, the Minister said, you can't do all that. One day later, the military boss was on TV at WNL. He said on this point that it was not a matter of choice but of everything. What happened here? How can the Minister seemingly be overruled by the military boss? Does the Minister share the view that he has sat in the Minister's chair with this and that this cannot be done? Mr. Chairman. Finally, something quite different. In 2015, the Netherlands signed the Safe Schools Declaration: an initiative with concrete recommendations for countries to better protect schools. This initiative is not legally binding. It contains no additional obligations, but practical additions to international humanitarian law. As far as I know, the Department of Defense has never shown what it does with those guidelines. Have they been implemented or incorporated into other implementation frameworks in any way? Did Dutch soldiers mention the military use of schools in the warring parties during their broadcast? Is defence in talks with its military allies who do not yet support the initiative, such as Germany, to ensure that they too will support this initiative? Because the right to education for children is extremely important even in wartime and sometimes the only bright spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. Let's start with some light air. In itself, it's fascinating to see that we were here less than 12 hours ago. At least, that's when I ran here. The beauty of politics is that it is a right to hold a debate for as long as possible. If you're a little sick and you're running around here to vote, it's a little less fun. Anyway, you're either Defense spokesperson or not, so you're trying to be a little powerful in there. Of course, that's nothing to do with what all our soldiers do, but I thought: this is a nice way to wake everyone up. Mr. Chairman. In an unpredictable world, where the nature and extent of the threats are constantly changing, defence, as well as diplomacy and development cooperation, is indispensable. Peace, security and stability are not self-evident. These things are essential to our democracy. For this, our men and women of defense are literally risking their lives every day. The more than 40,000 soldiers and 15,000 citizens are now and in the future contributing to the prosperity, stability and security of our country. Through their global commitment, international cooperation is strengthened and more people in freedom and security can be themselves. D66 therefore has a great deal of appreciation for all the military, civilians, veterans and reserves in the Defense Department. Mr. Chairman. After years of austerity, the tide has turned. DOD's gonna invest again. This is necessary not only to put our equipment, our staff and the practice of our armed forces in order, but also to further professionalise the Defence Organisation and to make it fit in with the needs of today. The Adaptive Armed Forces is a good example. We have welcomed this and we still welcome it. However, now is the time to take further steps towards an inclusive, leading Defence Organisation with an open culture in which you can deviate from stereotypes. Defence must be an employer for which the new generation also wants to work. With the necessary investments of this cabinet, the Netherlands is moving towards the European average. My group welcomes that, because today Europe will have to take more responsibility for our own security. This brings me to my first point: the Netherlands cannot save the world and not only itself. If we are to have serious impact and be effective with our armed forces, European defence cooperation is essential, whether you love Europe or not. D66 therefore welcomes the fact that, after years of commitment, European cooperation in the field of security and defence is now finally being implemented. The creation of a leading group in the form of permanent structured cooperation, also known as PESCO, is a step in the right direction. The Netherlands is at the forefront of bilateral cooperation in Europe. This is how we have been working for many years, and I can also say that we have been working intensively with our neighbouring countries since day and year. With Belgium, we move together when it comes to our air forces. With Germany we share a tank battalion. These are both examples of successful European cooperation, increasing defence capabilities and smarter spending. It is therefore clear that cooperation at European level will not only benefit joint capacities, but also enable us to develop new projects more efficiently and effectively. There are therefore many concrete projects on the table. I would like to ask the Minister how she has experienced in Brussels over the last few days. My second point concerns the organizational culture of the Defense Department. There have been too many incidents in recent times. There were so many of them that you might wonder if they were incidents. Abuse, rape, abuse of power, hazing, every incident is an isolated sad event. However, these events do have a common denominator. In my view, there is a culture of fear, in which talking about these events can mean the end of your career. It's a culture where there's no room for anything that's different and different from stereotypes. As stated earlier, the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on the experience of diversity and inclusiveness is therefore very hard on this. I have to mention that some people find this very annoying because it would appear that all the people working for the Defence Department or all the people responsible for the Defence Summit are involved in this. I think it is important to stress that I do not think so, that I do not think so and that it is not, but I do not believe in leaving the problems unnamed. By naming the problems, however painful they may be, everyone will see that they are there and you can also solve them with each other. Hopefully you can conclude together that there is no more noise in the organisation and that there are no more people who radiate too much of a certain dominance, so that there can be a diseased culture at all. I have every confidence that the ruler and the DOD summit are going to work on this as well. After all, it is precisely with Defence that the staff should feel safe, valued and respected, not because of their appearance or their orientation, but because of their contribution to the organisation. We therefore value an inclusive Defence Organisation in which all feel safe, committed and valued. Attention to safety, inclusiveness and diversity in the broadest sense of the word is therefore urgently needed. It's supposed to be an integral part of the identity of Defense. Especially now that there is a large number of vacancies to be filled, Defence should be working on its organisational culture. The growth of new personnel is an excellent opportunity for Defence to show what it stands for and to draw on the broad and diverse knowledge and skill potential that our country has. Earlier, D66 filed two motions to draw attention to diversity in the Defense Department. Defence has also signed the diversity charter and has thereby explicitly linked itself to the pursuit of greater diversity. I know a number of people in the Defense Department are working hard on this, and that's also appreciated. In view of the broad social interest, we only think that it is necessary to make clear agreements with the Cabinet on this matter and to be able to discuss it annually. I would like to announce that there will be a motion in my second term to record this together. Mr President, I am a little confused about my speaking time. I see I have three and a half minutes, but I don't know what I started. Twelve minutes or ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	Ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	Okay, well, then it's good to go. Mr. Chairman. Today, digital developments are rapidly following each other. A modern military force that can also face the challenges of tomorrow should also be digitally resilient. The digital infrastructure of the Netherlands is one of the world's top. We therefore believe that the ability to carry out cyber operations is essential. Investing in defence cyber capabilities increases the employability of the armed forces and effectiveness in the digital domain. D66 has paid a lot of attention to cyber in his program. A year ago, we filed a motion that is still pending. It always disappoints me a little when it takes too long. After all, last year we found that in 2016 only 44 cyber-reservists had been appointed, while the target was in November 2013 to appoint 150 cyber-reservists. Our request was therefore to speed up this work. We're six months away now. Perhaps the Minister can tell us what is going on with the search for those 150 cyber-reservists. Then there's the future stability. Like many of my fellow Members, we attach great importance to future defence, both in business and in innovation. We attach great importance to care, visibility and predictability in terms of business management, financing and renewal and replacement investments. This is particularly true of the multiannual figures. The Court concluded that it is unclear on what data the multiannual financial figures are based on. Moreover, the Court of Auditors was unable to link up the various budget items. In order to ensure due diligence, visibility and predictability in the funds to be used for the coming year, I ask the Minister to provide the Chamber with a financial budget statement in the first quarter of 2018 and to strive to add a letter of amendment when presenting the Defence Note, so that you can see very clearly that extra money has been added and to which that money is spent. Then we're gonna watch each other in six months and we're gonna say, "Oh, that's so handsome, that's all worked out. Or: I don't think it's going so well yet. The latter can happen, but then we know it with each other and then we won't be surprised. In that letter of amendment we can then find the use of additional investments. I have the following questions about this, first of all about the training capacity for initial training and job training and the number of training places. The training budget at the KMar will be increased, by 0.6 million in 2018. My question is how much FTE this means and whether this also means, I repeat, D66 requests that the next holiday season, for which people are already booking, there should be no more problems with the number of marechaussees and waiting periods at Schiphol, among others. Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members also referred to the new Reapers. We understand that they can be purchased. I would like an oral explanation from the Minister. We have said in the past: if you buy those Reapers unarmed, you do something special anyway, because the art of such a Reaper is that he can not only gather intelligence but that he can also very well target. It is good that the Netherlands does not choose the latter, but there is a report from the CTIVD on the contribution to targeting by the STIVD. My question is whether the Minister or the Secretary of State is prepared to send directives to the Chamber as soon as possible on the extent to which they are going to be used or not, because if they are going to be used and if the information provided by the Reapers is shared with any other country, which then uses that information to target, I would find it very important to agree on this. Perhaps this can be explained now. Mr. Chairman. Finally, innovation. It's incredibly important. We, as D66, have insisted on this very often, because we believe that today's choices should not constitute obstacles to tomorrow's ambitions. The pursuit of a high-quality and future-proof military force requires greater diversity, as well as investment in knowledge building, technology development and innovation. The deteriorating security situation in the world and the threats around Europe underline the need to continue to renew and sustain Defence. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether 2% of the defence budget is being spent on R&D and whether it is achieving the norm. In order to underline this aim once again, I am considering tabling a motion for this in my second term. My colleague also referred to the aviation aspect. I was lucky to have been spokesperson for aviation and defence at the time of the debate on Lelystad. I have a specific request for the Minister on the reclassification of airspace over Lelystad. I would actually like to ask for full support and a proactive attitude from the Ministry of Defence, specifically with regard to the reclassification of airspace. Indeed, the importance of redeployment is too great to allow inter-departmental issues. We just can't afford that. The airspace needs to be reorganised as soon as possible, in line with the previous commitments made by directors of both ministries to the Chamber. We want to be sure that no time and energy is wasted on ineffective cooperation or coordination. Can the Minister say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	I have another question that does not fit in with this subject, but I do not know if you will come to it. I see on the D66 website in an action plan for refugees that D66 is in favour of receiving asylum seekers in semi-empty barracks. My question is whether Mrs Belhaj is still in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	I think that's such a fantastic question. I would now like to agree that I will return to that in the second term, if you would like a real answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	The PVV loves the website of D66, because that's what she's done to me a third time. But that's okay, that keeps me sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	I support the plea for inclusiveness and diversity in the defense. We're behind that. So I'm curious about your motion in the second term. But a lot of reports have been written in recent years; for example, the SCP has said something about it. The previous ministers have not succeeded in achieving this. What will you give to the current Secretary of State and Secretary of State to make it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	That's a very good question. Look, you can't pay a little bit of attention to diversity; you can only do it fully, in complete conviction and in a broad way. I think there was a good initial letter a while ago, but that's actually not enough to really get the farmer involved, to radiate inclusiveness, to set targets, but not a preferred policy, and therefore to try to make it more diverse. I think the police are a wonderful example, because they are far beyond that and have learned what does and what doesn't work. I think we should do the same for the DOD. That is what I am trying to do with my motion, namely to speak out with one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mrs Belhaj also mentioned the Royal Marechaussee and the queues at Schiphol. She said "on holiday," but I get photos and reports about it almost every week. That is also the case now. Thousands of people suffer from that. But now that you're in the coalition, Mrs Belhaj, what do you propose to broaden capacity already? You had a number of proposals with resources. Are you also prepared to provide funds to expand the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's the point. Last year the capacity was increased by adding money. That has actually happened again. But if we say today that we're throwing so many millions at it, that doesn't mean they'll be ready tomorrow. People have to go to training first. A lot of these people are in training now, too. I saw it now in the budget and I remember it being around 400 fte. So you need it to reduce all those queues. I am now asking the cabinet: how much FTE will come with the money that the previous cabinet has added plus this money? If that's too little, then we know that the next time they go on holiday, people will be back in a long line. And we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	Can Mrs Belhaj explain to me what would show that the human and material readiness is in order to extend the ongoing missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	That is a very broad question, but it is a good question. As Mrs Karabulut knows, there is an Article 100 letter to the decision on a mission. It shall explain specifically to each mission which equipment and work personnel are required to comply with a mission. We have general data on this, and we have recently had a secret report on this in order to be able to assess certain issues. When someone says, "I'm just saying something random; it's always very difficult for him to need 1,000 computers to carry out a mission and if the secret report says that there are only 100, then you and I as MPs know that we can ask for that at the technical briefing: hey, there's a difference, how can that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	So my answer, Mr President, is this. On Monday there are three or four technical briefings, in which defence spokesmen and foreign spokesmen can ask anything they want about human and material readiness. We will. Part of what you're asking is unfortunately classified, so I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	If I listen carefully to Mrs Belhaj, the answer is now: we cannot judge that at the moment; that comes later, after the technical briefings and so on. It is therefore a question of whether the human and material readiness is in order to extend these missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mrs Karabulut always has a very good way of summing up, which fits what she wants to hear, but my own summary is next. I do have a number of questions about these missions, which I will be asking together with my group's Foreign Affairs spokesman on Monday. Then there's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. He was pressed to the ground and held, while someone in his bare ass moved back and forth on his head. He had to walk with a pillow under his shirt, as if he had breasts, was forced to simulate in the big room that he came and had to wear a pink beret. They said it was another assignment. I had to snort cocaine. I didn't want to, but I had to cross a line again. Mr. Chairman. These aren't stories from an obscure sect. They are stories of soldiers about what happened to them in Defense during what is sometimes called an initiation ritual or a socialization period. I call it different: shocking, disgusting and inhumane. It's hazing. We heard from Secretary of State Visser that it is forbidden, but it is done, under our responsibility. It happens to men and women who are willing to give their lives for us. Defense doesn't adequately protect them from this evil. These are examples from a long series. De Volkskrant writes in 2004 about abuses, I quote: hazing prohibited? Bullshit! The Staal Committee concludes in 2006 that unwanted behaviour is more common in the Defense Department than in the rest of society. In 2008, De Telegraaf wrote that then Commander of the Armed Forces Van Uhm was going to curb hazing. In 2010 research showed that at the Dutch Defence Academy in Breda cadets and executives were guilty of unwanted behaviour. In 2007 there was the aforementioned report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. And recently we read the shocking stories about the hazings in Schaarsbergen. That is why I have the following questions to the Minister and the Secretary of State. What is and is not forbidden? If it's forbidden, how come it keeps happening? Where does it say black and white that hazing is forbidden? How are managers and others informed about this? How and by whom is it controlled and enforced? If such a shocking thing happens to people in the armed forces, where can they go without fearing their careers? Does the Minister agree with us that confidants within units cannot offer a safe ear, not because they would not be integrity, but because they are part of that unit? I also have a few questions about the external hotline that is being set up on the further investigation into the events in the Oranjekazerne and the wider investigation. Is the Minister prepared to contact the members of the Samson Committee and the Deetman Committee to learn from their experiences in reporting abuse? Is the Minister prepared to take care of the people who report, outside of the Defense Department? The mental caregivers have an important role of trust. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with them the obligation of training in moral education within the units? Mr. Chairman. Now that the Netherlands is financially well-off and this cabinet is going to take all kinds of tax measures to please employers, I suggest another tax measure, which can eliminate injustice for military personnel. Military people have a separate legal status, with different legal exceptions. That's right. However, no exception has been made for the tax that has been introduced to discourage employers from retiring earlier. Of course, this measure has little effect on an employer who is legally forced to retire earlier. The current solution costs the Minister a lot of money. In addition, there is a tax penalty of 52%. Can the Minister talk to her fellow Members in this cabinet about a solution to the current criminal charge? I hope for an affirmative answer and consider a second-term motion on this matter. Then about the Financial Service Centre in Limburg. The PvdA finds it incomprehensible that past commitments are not being met by the Minister and the State Secretary. Although the letter, which we just received, states that a provisional decision has been taken to move this centre to Utrecht in early 2018, the business case does not seem to give any reason to revise that planned decision. A business case? One that will save €280,000 in the long run? I don't think this is about business at all. It's about people. Employment is scarce in that region. Workers who would like to move with them will cost the organisation more money than the so-called business case will, because they rightly want compensation for the more or less forced relocation. The remaining employees are facing an uncertain future. What about the people who are now making sure that everything there is cleaned and the companies that supply office supplies? They're all screwed. When a point comes to a close, Limburg comes to the shortest conclusion when it comes to the renewal of the state service. I expect an explanation from the Minister. The PvdA supports the government's plans to allocate additional funds to Defense by 2018. This will make the Netherlands safer and make the world safer. We do have questions about some choices. I mention buying a new supply ship while our frigates seem to fall apart, signing for six new JSF devices while money is needed for the deployment and maintenance of the F-16, stretching the lifespan of equipment with art and flying gear and postponing the replacement of wheeled vehicles. What's the plan? We know that the Defence Note is still coming, but of course we would like to understand the broader considerations of the Minister. The General Court speaks of insufficient capacity in the Defence Material Organisation and stresses the importance of getting the acquisition chain in order. Recommendations were also made in the ibo report. How is the Minister going to work on these recommendations? Our military must have good and safe equipment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to invest more in the people of Defense. I think they are very willing to do so. Those D.O.D. guys deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	I heard Mrs Ploumen say, "Why are you buying F-35s now while money goes to the F-16?" But the problem is that longer flying with the F-16 is many times more expensive than bringing up the F-35? Do I understand now that the Labour Party is making a plea to bring forward the F-35?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr Bosman likes to hear what he wants to hear, but I did not say that. What matters to me is: what choices are being made, especially as early as 2018, and how do the choices for purchasing new equipment relate to the maintenance of what is now available? We just want to have more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	Until now we have talked about the F-35, and also about the additional costs of the F-16. We all know that the longer we fly the F-16, the more expensive it will be. So either the Labour Party says: we're going to fly on with the F-16 longer; we're going to accept the costs that that entails and then we're going to move the F-35 back. Or do we say: no, it's a shame if we invest in the F-16, actually we should just bring out the F-35; that's much more efficient and useful? Or have I misunderstood the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	I know we've talked about it a long time. My question to the Minister and the Secretary of State is precisely to give us an insight into how the intended purchases relate to maintenance. I have given a number of examples of things that I would like to have more insight into. I hope we get that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The new Secretary of Defense may start with a new filled wallet, rising to 1.5 billion a year. The Christian Union wishes both the Minister and the Secretary of State good luck. In recent years, we have been constantly calling for more investment in our military and we were used to copy-pasting and repeating the texts. So it feels a bit awkward to leave out those lyrics now, but fortunately we can do that again for the first time in years. As a result, investments can be made in equipment, but also in the necessary staff. To this end, the directors have already announced 178 million in initial investments through the letter of amendment. It's very necessary, too. Our armed forces can only fulfil their constitutional duties. In addition, the world has not become safer in the meantime. The restoration of basic efficiency must therefore be of the highest priority. The letter of amendment also indicates this and mentions the necessary bottlenecks: information, supplies, medical support. All these shortcomings can now be overcome by good and justified priorities aimed at improving operationality in the mission areas. Our military must be able to rely on high-quality equipment and good medical facilities there. Dependence on international partners should be reduced, especially in relation to the care of wounded. I do, however, have a number of questions to the two rulers about these expenditures. Of course, the Chamber will be discussing the missions, but can the Minister inform the Chamber now whether another helicopter will be available for the mission in Mali? Is medical care in Kidal now being put in order? Can the Minister also indicate how the air transport capacity will be increased, in addition to the already available KDC-10 gliders and the Hercules aircraft? I understand the capacity of the C-17 is being increased. How much time is it? What kind of transports is that for? A long-cherished wish of the Christian Union, and I understand from the VVD, are unmanned aircraft. The four Reapers are finally arriving, after many years of planning. Can the rulers indicate when they will actually be purchased? Within the Marine Corps, a Fleet Marine Squadron is formed for the protection of merchant ships, but what about the implementation of the ChristianUnion motion to create smaller VPD teams, so that more ships can be protected to suit their needs? That motion was passed last year. How does Fleet Marine Squadron relate to the VPD teams we have? Our kites receive additional training and the number of flight hours at the training places is increased, we read in the letter of amendment. If the F-16 mission over Syria and Iraq should no longer be needed by January, given the decreasing threat or even elimination of ISIS, will that have a beneficial effect on the number of hours of flight that one can make at home? Finally, on the material part, including in connection with the OVV report, I have the question of whether the Minister is prepared to look at the review framework. We would have liked to have tabled a motion on this during the second period of the debate on that report, but there was no longer a second deadline. Does the Minister wish to look more specifically and specifically at the safety of our men and medical care within that review framework? Should this not be more explicit when we receive the Article 100 letters, including the possible extensions that are still pending? Then the staff. Defence still suffers from a large staff shortage and it is good that after four years there will finally be a new Defence Cao, but will that in itself be enough to solve the shortage of people? The additional money for the Defense Department includes an amount for the benefit of good employership. In this context, I ask the Secretary of State to what extent this money can also be used to do something more for the people involved in the AOW-hole. The hole is largely closed, but there is still a difference. What room does the Secretary of State see for this? Then there's the defense culture. Good employership also means a good and an open Defence culture. Several incidents now show that the wrong culture prevails. That has to be dealt with. Defense can and can no longer be its own enemy in some ways. The rape scandal in the air-mobile brigade, the accident in Mali and the handling of whistleblowers must be a thing of the past. It is good that the abuse in Schaarsbergen is now also the subject of an independent investigation with a hotline. One of the preliminary conclusions is that the initiation rituals remain, but should not be hazing. I would ask specifically what the dividing lines are, the direct separations when it comes to initiation rituals on the one hand and the hazings on the other. Humiliation and abuse of defence personnel must never be part of any rituals, I ask the rulers. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on that point. It is good that the Secretary of State is also using unconventional means to recruit staff from Defense, the so-called pop-up defense shops. It's creative, badly needed for the 5,600 vacancies that Defense has to deal with. Will the Secretary of State keep us informed? I understand it's only gonna take a month. Are we going to expand this in the country if we succeed? Isn't a month very short? Before people find the store, it's almost shut down. I would like to hear a further explanation. We talked about the investments. But before new major investments take place, it is important that there be a Defence vision and a multi-annual plan. The purpose of the cabinet was to formulate a security strategy and to update the Defence Note periodically. When can the Chamber expect this new security strategy from the Cabinet? Is it presented at the same time as the Defence Note or is it presented separately? Then Europe. Recently, the so-called PESCO agreement on security strategy and consultation was adopted and signed by the Netherlands. We're going to work more together in military technology. As long as this is based on a well-founded Defence vision, the Christian Union dares to go along with this, although the Christian Union Group believes it is important that the Netherlands can really achieve some form of basic readiness itself. Cooperation must no longer be a disguised form of austerity, but this agreement must not lead to a European army. Member States should continue to have full control over the deployment of their own people and equipment. That may be an answer to Mr Dijkgraaf's questions; I can already see him coming. Then I'll give him some more text before he asks the questions. Nor, according to the Christian Union, should it lead to the collapse of the NATO alliance. Involvement of the United States and of the British remains essential for stability on our continent and in the world. More efficient use of military expenditure is good, but while maintaining its own sovereignty. I hope that all the texts have spoken for Mr Dijkgraaf. The question was: does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	And the question is whether Mr Dijkgraaf agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr President, I think it is terrible. Really, it's nothing! No, in itself, they're beautiful lyrics. The dilemma in our group is that we see the need for cooperation, because then you can do more. We're not necessarily against PESCO either. If you look at the job assignment, that's actually fine. Mr Voordewind is now making this point nicely. But every time you look at the European Union, you see it going one step at a time. That's where our concern lies. We totally agree with those texts, but how do we prevent us from concluding in ten years' time that we have gone too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	We've signed PESCO now. It is about military cooperation, the military highway that we need for Europe, the military Schengen. My group can live well with that. What we are a little more concerned about or have questions about is the European Defence Fund. This is being filled by the European Commission, but after 2020, as it says in the documents, Member States should also make funds available from the investment budgets. That would mean that you would be able to drain the investment budgets towards such a European Defence Fund. If that is the case, we will no longer have to debate a defence budget in five or ten years' time, because then all of our money will be distributed through the European Defence Fund and we will have serious problems with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	That's exactly my point. That's actually the process you're in. You start something beautiful in itself. At some point you get to a point where you think I've actually gone too far and then you can't go back. How can we get the comfort of it? I ask that through Mr Voordewind the government, but the Christian Union is also keen on this point, that things are going well here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	Short reaction, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	I think that the multiannual financial framework for the European Commission requires us to talk very closely about this European Defence Fund. This has to be paid out of the current budget. We must, of course, look at it. We must not be crazy Henkie, or that is indeed for the benefit of ourselves, when it comes to the exchange of knowledge and technology. An important benchmark for us will be that we are dealing here with our own defence spending. Secondly, as a Dutch parliament, we must always deal here with the broadcasting of our people and the availability of equipment. We must keep that sovereignty, not a European army, here at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	I would like to return to what Mr Voordewind said about hazing. I very much agree with that, of course. In my words: initiation rituals are all too often an alibi for terrible practices. By some, certainly not by all. I could very much agree with what Mr Voordewind said about this, but I was wondering. I have tabled a motion with a number of others, and the Christian Union has voted against it, and I think what Mr Voordewind says is expressed exactly in that motion. I was curious to see what the background to this is and what I should do in order to table a motion on this subject, which Mr Voordewind supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	Perhaps this motion has prompted me to think, because at precisely that point I have now put the question to the rulers where the dividing line is between initiation rituals and hazing. I would like to hear that strict line of division from the rulers, because it cannot be that any form of humiliation takes place even in the initiation rituals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	Yes. So I put it in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	Then we'll wait and see what the cabinet comes up with tomorrow. Perhaps then we can look at it again together and I can table a motion which Mr Voordewind supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'm gonna take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	Thank you. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr President, I am only going to finish one minute. 'Cause I'm over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	I have one more question about the Home Front Check. This concerns a motion previously adopted by Mr Segers/Eijsink. My question is what is the situation with regard to its implementation. We have received a number of recommendations on this, but the implementation is still to come, I understand. Can I assume that mental care, very crucial in the Schaarsbergen case, will grow with the budget now that we have more money? Mr President, I shall conclude. I started my sum by saying that I felt a bit uncomfortable because I didn't have to ask for investment. I'll ask for clear goals and strategy. I continue to draw attention to the too-closed defence culture. We can't get used to that. I assume that is exactly how the rulers experience it. I look forward to a fresh start with these rulers, realizing that there are no quick wins. However, I wish both directors a great deal of can-domality to use the changes with great speed and I look forward to constructive and pleasant cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Madam President. We are, of course, mainly here to ask questions about things that we do not like and things that can be done better, but I do need to welcome the rulers here at the beginning. Beautiful lyrics in the coalition agreement. A budgetary framework which is much better than it has been. So especially compliments. In that perspective, you must see my contribution. But in the end, of course, it is the military that is on mission. That's what we do it all for. The question is, what does he or she need? In my opinion these are three things, three certainties: the training must be in order, the equipment must be in order and there must be sufficient safety valves. With regard to the first point, the training, the practicability, I notice that the coalition agreement does not pay attention to this. Maybe that's just because you can't write everything down in a coalition agreement because you'll get a very big coalition agreement, but I'd like to hear from the rulers whether there's any explanation in it or not. Because, of course, we have had our shooting exercises that had to be dropped because of ammunition shortages and an army exercise in Poland that didn't go quite well. In short, the question: from what point can the rulers guarantee that the practice is in order? Good and sufficient equipment, it is necessary to improve that. I am thinking of the pang-pang exercises that have been going on in the past, the F-16s that have been plagued by a bomb shortage, the purchase, storage and safety of ammunition, the whole debate around Mali. How do the rulers ensure that enough ammunition and parts are in stock in the coming years and that they are kept and used safely? Does the Ministry have enough capacity to do so? This applies, of course, to parts, ammunition and also to equipment. There's gonna be a lot of money now. Now, of course, you get the question: can we put that away? Is that what the rulers are worried about? Or do the rulers think: no, but that capacity is in order or at least gets in order? Because there too, of course, has been considerable cuts in recent years. Madam President. What I am so afraid of is that we are happy with the 1.5 billion but that in two or three years' time there will be another economic crisis and that this cabinet or a new cabinet will say that we need to cut back. We're a long way from here. If the pattern were that this cabinet, the next cabinet and the cabinet would add the 1.5 billion each time, then we would be in 2041 2041! On the NATO standard. That can't be the ambition, can it? I heard our Prime Minister in Wales. Well, great stories, great stories, but then you have to do it. So these are actually two questions. One: how is this cabinet going to ensure that the NATO standard is reached in 2024? Then there's got to be a hell of a shovel of money in the next cabinet. That brings me to the second question. I think the problem with the Defense Department is this. It's a long-term investment in personnel that you want to hold on to, and in equipment. You've been buying a submarine for years. You've been working on a JSF for years. Then it's very miserable when that budget goes up and down. Now we've found something on other things. For example, when it comes to roads, railway lines or dikes, we do so via an MIRT or a Delta fund, because that financial flow must be fixed for as long as the investments are needed. So I see the rulers talking, with coveted glances that that is such a beautiful system, really! Can we say that we have a perspective to record this for the next ten years? Today there is a message about Poland. Poland, with a 40% smaller economy than ours, has committed themselves to spending 130 billion over the next 14 years. They're now at 2%, they're fine with the NATO standard and they're going up to 2.5%. And I know why that is. Read the history books about Poland and go to the border of Poland with the Soviet Union and now Russia. They really see Putin standing with his tanks. They see that they just order 2,100 super-modern tanks there. I understand everything about budgets, don't I? Then comes a lot of times the story that you shouldn't rule over your period. Well, if you're smart and it's about long-term investment, you have to. Then you just have to offer that certainty, and you have to integrate it into the system. Madam President. The third is sufficient safety valves. A military on mission must be able to count on the call if something is wrong. Around the Mali debate we have had whole discussions about this. That was not right and that cannot be 100% good in the very short term either, because that is part of that culture. These are ground situations and structures in mission areas. For example, if a commander is concerned about the feasibility of a mission, can he get rid of his message "mission impossible" somewhere? Or is he cut off very quickly and said: this is just the assignment? How safe is it to report it if you think, boys, this is just not good? That's what we're talking about with the staff. Thank you to all my fellow Members who have paid attention to this. It's very important to us, too. The same applies to safety. This applies to all aspects of safety. Whether it's about initiations, sexual abuse or a mission impossible, in any way you just have to be able to ring the bell. How are the rulers going to guarantee that? The same applies, of course, to evacuation and medical care. They just need to be in order. You have to be able to trust, the people themselves, but also the home front, that you will be properly caught when things go wrong. That can-domality is fantastic, but I was at a debriefing of F-16 pilots once. I really loved that, of course, to see those planes go into the air and land again. That's a beautiful sight. But what I liked most about that debriefing was this. Then they have such a big sign where you can see where all those planes are in the air. And those pilots will have to stop telling me when they made a mistake. If they do, they report what was there. At some point they flew with the four of them and one had gone to the left while he should have gone to the right. The other three were shot in the simulation, of course, immediately, because they had lost cover. He reported that. Fine. No problem. If you don't report it, you're gonna have a serious problem and you're gonna get it on all sides, because any mistake can be deadly. I'm talking about that culture in the sense of: boys, we have a can-domeality, but we just make mistakes. Everyone makes mistakes. It is about minimising mistakes, but it is perhaps even more important to learn from mistakes made. That culture of the F-16 pilots, I don't see with Mr Bosman since he's in politics anymore. No, that's a joke. Mr Bosman is nodding, because he knows what that was like and how it felt. That felt good. It wasn't nice if you made a mistake, but you knew there was a safe environment where you could get rid of it and where it was taught. And that's how you learned. I'd like to see that culture broad in Defense. That will be difficult, because that runs counter to the existing culture, but that is essential if we are to be able to carry out safe missions. I asked the question about PESCO through the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Bosman feels called to respond, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	I'm gonna respond, because the safety story is crucial. I like the fact that Mr Dijkgraaf has referred to flight safety. Crew resource management is about the security of working together and addressing each other on responsibilities. If things go wrong, you just have to talk to each other about it. We can now see that being translated into hospitals. That goes to operating rooms. These are matters of life and death in which all decisions are crucial. That's why even the nurse should be able to tell the doctor: something's going wrong. In my view, we agree that it is very important that this idea should be taken up within the entire armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	Yeah, that's a big deal. For example, we in the Chamber could look in the mirror at how we deal with rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dijkgraaf. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	Mr. Chairman. Minister Bijleveld and Secretary of State Visser are now officially four weeks at work. I am actually curious whether the rulers have successfully gone through and endured their hazing in the Defense Department. Or could the hazing of the rulers take place in the Lower House? In that case, the rulers are lucky, because I can tell you that the hazing in the Chamber is not so bad compared to what happens in the Defense Department. My fellow Members have told us what happens at the Ministry of Defence when it comes to hazing. We can't. We have to go hard on that. Mr. Chairman. As a new Secretary of Defense, I've been making a lot of work visits to our defense lately. I've learned a lot there too, and I've heard a lot of things and been able to see with my eyes what the problems are with the Defense Department. These are the basic needs, such as a good salary, safe clothing, safe ammunition and other materials that they rightly need. Unfortunately, the VVD ministers have failed to do so in recent years. They were way too busy participating in the big countries. They chose to invest billions in combat planes and submarines and left our boys with bad equipment. I've already compared the previous minister to a mother who buys a luxury car because the neighbors also bought a nice car. But unfortunately, the kids at home don't get school supplies from the same mother. You can't do that, Mr. Chairman. We at DENK hope that the new minister will listen to DENK and that she will invest in basic needs. In addition, it is important for DENK that our Defence Organisation reflects society. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. Diversity is still a long way to go, according to the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Mr. Chairman. We have thick reports, lots of intentions, lots of hope of D66. I wonder if this coalition will live up to that hope, those reports. I'll take care of them for results. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what concrete measures she is going to take to increase the diversity within Defence. What are you going to do that your predecessors have failed? Where are you gonna bet it? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to dwell on our defense policy. Both during my work visits with the Permanent Chamber Committee on Defence and in the imagery we see that we are still focusing on threat. Threat from one side. And that is why I want to explain Dutch defence policy on the basis of a story. The story of the sheep, the shepherd and the wolf. Every day we get messages: Russia, Putin, interference, pages in De Telegraaf, and Russia is seen as the wolf. We're getting scared. And then you need a shepherd to protect the sheep. We would be the sheep, the Netherlands, not so big, little defence power. And the shepherd would be the United States, the United Kingdom and France. So we have to stand behind the big boys, the shepherds, who would protect us from the big wolf. For decades we have been preparing ourselves for that threat of Putin and Russia. We have spent billions to protect ourselves from the wolf, to protect ourselves from the so-called danger from Russia. But the odds that the wolf eats the sheep, we also see in practice, but look at all the movies. It is the shepherd who eventually takes the sheep to the slaughterhouse. It's the shepherd, chairman, who occasionally eats a sheep when he's hungry. So we can't just focus on the wolf, but let's also focus on the people, on the countries we see as shepherds. You need to focus on all the dangers. You cannot just scare the citizens of the Netherlands every day of Putin, Russia and other dangers. Mr. Chairman. I'm not just gonna tell this story. We saw what happened in Mali. Ammunition we purchased from an ally turned out not to be safe. Of course, the responsibility lies with us, but an ally shouldn't be selling materials that aren't safe. This has killed two of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	I'm very fond of metaphor myself. In the metaphor you use, I wonder how we prevent the sheep from being made into shorama by the wolf. I don't quite understand the role of the shepherd. I can imagine that it is NATO or an EU organisation. Who really doesn't want us to become a shorama, do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	In my contribution today, I have the example of Srebrenica and what happened there. We thought the shepherd would protect our boys there and thus 8,000 Muslims in Bosnia. That shepherd didn't come. Then thousands of people, thousands of people, died before our eyes because the shepherd we trusted didn't come. That's exactly what we need to focus on. Because we want to join the big countries and they also have their own agenda and sometimes let us sit down, we need to think very carefully about what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	This is really hard for me, isn't it? On the day Mladic stands before the court and is convicted of genocide, where we all know who killed the 8,000 Muslims in Bosnia, Mr Öztürk is going to blame the Netherlands, the Americas, that we slaughtered the people. It is very inappropriate to make such a comment. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	I think Mr Voordewind hears what he wants to hear. I didn't say that. That's just too easy. Mladic has been convicted, and I will come back to that in my speech. Yeah, he did. But we have made mistakes as a country, that is acknowledged. We have not received air support, that is simply acknowledged. Those are things that people are right to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	Then Mr Öztürk is still not allowed to make the Dutch the butchers of the 8.000...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	Again, I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	He can shake his head, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr President, I did not say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	No, no, Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	A comparison has been made with a shepherd and a wolf. We would have been led to the slaughter by the shepherd as sheep. I have great objections to this kind of equation, because then we would have been the perpetrators of the massacres, or America. America is an ally of the Netherlands. America protected us during the Second World War and today we are still very grateful for the protection we have in relation to that beautiful East, that Russia is so in favour of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	That's another bullshit story. Mr Voordewind hears what he wants to hear. Again, we expected air support, but we didn't get it. That's a fact. That allowed the butcher to kill 8,000 people in front of us. That's what I said, and it's been proven. Let me say the same in my contribution. Mr. Chairman. We also saw this at the fall of Srebrenica. More than 8,000 Bosnian men and boys were murdered by the Serbs. Dutchbat had to protect these people but failed. One of the reasons was the lack of air support provided by the United States, the United Kingdom and France. But that air support never came. Our allies failed not only the Bosnians but also us. 22 years after the war, war criminal Mladic was finally convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity today. He's been sentenced to life imprisonment, and rightly so. This war criminal was out in Europe for years; imagine! But as the next of kin say, whatever punishment Mladic gets, it's never enough, because the pain, suffering and grief of the Bosnians are unprecedented. We must never forget the drama of Srebrenica. That's why DENK wants a monument to the drama of Srebrenica. DENK also wants this drama to be officially commemorated. In our country there are more than 3,000 war and memorial monuments, but unfortunately there is not one monument for the drama in Srebrenica. Of course you can't. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to do this and consult with the committee that is involved in this. I am considering a motion on this point. Every year we have a memorial. A number of fellow Members are also coming to this memorial. Then you see that there is a mobile monument that is put back in the garage afterwards. It can't be. Thousands of people have been killed. They are entitled to a monument that is fixed, somewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	I heard a blasphemy towards Dutchbat III. I don't care if it bothers me. If there's a reproach to be made, it's up to politics. It's our responsibility. Under our way of steering, we let those men and women go to Srebrenica. That is our responsibility, and your responsibility as a politician. That is our responsibility. I find it inappropriate, really inappropriate, to address Dutchbat III on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	I suggest you continue, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	These are easy words. All of us, as politics, yes. But whoever was in charge there also made mistakes. That's a good thing to say. Thousands of people have died in front of our soldiers, who still suffer from them, every day. I stand up for those people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	But don't go the easy way by saying I'm blaming you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u194	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u195	If Mr Öztürk really stands for those men and women... Has Mr Öztürk spoken to people from Dutchbat III who actually sat there? Has he heard from them what the consequences were and what difficulties they had to make there, on the basis of the political reasons, the political conditions we have set? That's the point. Then you can blame everyone, but if there is a reproach to be made, it is up to politics to do so. Again, you keep keeping your standard belt, because you want to hurt people; I get that. But I'm standing up for Dutchbat III.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u196	I suggest that you conclude, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yes. I stand up for all the people who want to help the safety of this world, everyone. Mr. Chairman. I notice that I have few minutes left, despite a lot of interruptions, but I continue. It's about the civilian casualties. We're going on a mission. When we go on a mission, the big parties are always at the front. They say: we must go on a mission; we must join the big countries. We're also making civilian casualties. The Netherlands and ministers do not inform the Chamber about civilian casualties. I would like to hear from this Minister and Secretary of State how many civilian casualties we have caused in recent years. I would also like to discuss this with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. During the autumn recess I was on a working visit in Suriname. I spoke there to Mr Simson, a KNIL veteran who was sent to Australia and was permanently injured in Indonesia. He sent me a letter from which I would like to recite a piece. I quote: Until 25 November 1975 we were Dutch. I served in the Dutch army. We fought a war for the Netherlands, put our lives in danger for the Netherlands. There have even been deaths and injuries. With God's grace, I will be 97 years old on 18 November 2017. I want my back pay before I die. It's been too long. I also want recognition that I fought with other comrades in the war. I was hurt. We were lured from Suriname under false pretenses. After all, we would not fight at the front, but the opposite turned out to be true. As far as I know, there are three more Australians alive. The rest of the men have already died. Was that supposed to happen? Should we all die so that this story will never be told? This story really hit me. I contacted the Veterans Institute soon after I returned. They like to cooperate to bring out the whole story. They also advised me to hand over the letter to the minister. So that's what I'm gonna do today. They just want justice, even if it's been years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u198	In my contribution I said that the CDA is proud of the Dutch military because of their work and commitment to peace and security around the world. In the interrupting debate I just had with Mr Öztürk, he also indicated that he supports the men and women of Defence. But I hear a lot of input now, in which he actually loses our military once and for all, in various examples. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u199	I understand that. I said our military needs a good salary. I told them they needed basic needs. I told them they needed backup. They need safe ammunition and safe equipment. That's what we stand for. Politics makes wrong choices here, which puts our soldiers in situations you don't want to talk about in those countries. Because you're only focused on Russia, Putin and fear. You don't want to see the rest of the strategy. Yes, I'm inclined to point that out from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u200	Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u201	If Mr Öztürk had listened carefully to my speech, he would have heard that I spoke not only about Russia but about the ring of instability around us. Those are also jihadism, the threat of terrorism, drugs and human trafficking. But I am surprised at the following point in Mr Öztürk's contribution. Indeed, we send the military on broadcast and we are responsible for what they get. But then Mr Öztürk cannot say about Dutchbat III and other broadcasts: it is not true, it cannot be and the military have not done a good job there? For the responsibility for sending the military and for what they receive lies with us, with politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u202	The CDA is only dealing with Putin, Russia and Islam. I regret that they do not see the extreme right, for example extreme Nazi statements in the Netherlands. They're just gonna leave that. I am sorry that they are not paying attention to this. I think it would be a good idea for the CDA to look into that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u203	I had a...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mrs. Bruins Slot, a personal fact, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u205	I asked a very relevant question. How is it that Mr Öztürk says that it is not right when our soldiers are on the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u206	Then you have your point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u207	He's starting a whole speech about the CDA that I don't recognize. I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u208	I also wanted a third interruption for a personal fact, Mr President. You didn't allow it. Now you'll allow it. That's very special to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u209	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u210	My point is that the CDA is one-sided about defence policy. I think it's okay if the CDA expands his look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u211	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u212	No, Mrs. Bruins Slot. And, Mr Bosman, you have just spoken extensively on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u213	It is another point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u215	It's another point. I can hear Mr Öztürk saying good things. He stands for the men and women of the armed forces and he thinks it is important that they have good equipment and good equipment when they go on broadcast. But you're cutting 1.7 billion. How do you rhyme with that? You say there's a lot to be done with the armed forces. You're blaming the Minister and the Secretary of State for not being okay. But DENK cuts 1.7 billion. That's more than we do. 1.7 billion off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u216	If you had listened carefully to our story, you would have heard that we do not want an expensive submarine, which costs nearly 2 billion. If you gave that billion-dollar investment in expensive submarines to our boys and girls and ladies and gentlemen, our military, who put their lives on the line for us, you could finance all the flaws I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u217	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u218	Yeah, it's hard when you don't know what a submarine does and what the capacity of submarines is. When you talk about the safety of our men and women, anywhere in the world, you know that a submarine is an ultimate means of intelligence, security and commitment. DENK gives just 1.7 billion cheap to the staff: look at us being proud. But these kinds of DENK choices do not guarantee safety. We all know that, at least when you're getting a little deeper into things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u219	I've been digging into that. I've made a lot of work visits. I also went to the place where the military get their stuff. Mr Baudet will speak after me. He also showed that soldiers buy stuff with their own money to protect their own lives. As a VVD in the last five years, you have been responsible for the fact that the military has not been granted that security during expensive operations and missions. Yes, we are for the safety of the people. If you buy one less submarine, you'll give them the stuff Mr Baudet rightly mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you. You were done, I think. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u221	Madam President. On 3 October, during the debate on the fatal mortar accident in Mali which led to the resignation of former Minister of Defence Jeanine Hennis, the Democracy Forum drew attention to the poor equipment with which our men and women in the armed forces are sent on international missions. Many soldiers are forced to purchase better equipment at their own expense. That argument made a lot of sense. On the basis of the numerous e-mails, phone calls and messages we have received, among others from the military and other parties involved in the armed forces, we have noticed that this problem is even more widespread than we thought. There are a lot of people who have to deal with the problems that we have pointed out, problems in terms of equipment, clothing and basic conditions in order to be able to do the job properly. In response to these many reactions, we have three questions for the Minister of Defence. First of all... Has a selection and procurement procedure been launched for the purchase of new, sound equipment for our men and women in the armed forces? I am referring to OPS jackets, shoes, the shortage of ammunition, dysfunctional radioisotopes, the lack of safe sleep spots on missions that force soldiers to sleep in tents and be vulnerable to rocket attacks. Has a selection and procurement procedure been launched for the purchase of good equipment? Second. If so, when will the better equipment be available to our men and women? If not, why didn't this happen and when is this going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u222	This gives the impression that we send men and women with tents to areas where grenades fly over. Can Mr. Baudet indicate where that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u223	With regard to the protection of my sources, I will not go into the truth any further, but the stories that have reached us took place in Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u224	So you're saying that people in Mali, where grenades fly over, sit in tents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u225	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u226	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u227	I have a third question for the Secretary of Defense. In the coalition agreement, the Rutte III cabinet invests 1.5 billion extra in Defence. Can the Minister ensure that the equipment for defence personnel on international missions is provided with the best quality as soon as possible? Can she guarantee that? If not, why not? We would like to hear the comprehensive answers, partly in the name of the thousands of soldiers who defend the Netherlands day and night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u228	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
