ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. I could give a great deal of thought to how quickly Turkey slips under Erdogan, but I will not do that. Everyone here knows what has happened in recent months to judges, journalists and civil servants. Everyone knows how things have been rushed over the past week and how the language has gone from undiplomatic to inappropriate. Now a large number of Turkish Dutch people are being held in Turkey. They're grounded. I would like to use a force term for this, but I think that caution will serve their cause more. By the way, it's not the first time Erdogan's done something like this. Last year the Netherlands was on its back legs when columnist Ebru Umar was not allowed to leave the country. Now, almost a year later, we have the same problem. Although this time it is not about well-known Dutch people, they are Dutch people with a Dutch passport. It is our duty to ensure that these Dutch people can travel freely, that they can return to their families, friends and work and that they can leave Turkey. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. How many Turkish Dutch are currently stuck in Turkey? On what grounds are they detained? In what way are they helped by the State Department? Who has this Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs been in contact with and what has it achieved? Finally, I would like to ask whether, in the midst of this tumult, regular diplomatic cooperation with Turkey will continue, for example in areas such as the fight against terrorism. Do I understand that the justice liaison is not allowed in Turkey at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions. I would indeed like to qualify the actions that we can take for those who cannot leave Turkey but want to do so as cautious. That doesn't mean we can't say anything about it. About 20 people have reported to our embassy Ankara asking for consular assistance. It is estimated that a larger group did not specifically request assistance, but may not feel free to leave Turkey. That's an assessment made on the basis of conversations. A number of people have been able to leave Turkey. How many there are, we don't know. People do not report with the problem and they do not report it if the problem has solved itself. People who approach the consulate ask us to deal with the matter discreetly and to work on a solution in this way. We are obviously talking about this with the Turkish authorities, and we will continue to do so. Research shows that other countries also see that their nationals face the same problems. Germany and a number of other Member States are affected by this. That is where we decided to raise the issue at the next 'like-minded' meeting. This is a consultation between a group of countries, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Belgium, Austria, Sweden and Denmark. They regularly discuss tensions that may arise in the national community, in our case the Dutch-Turkish community. We will also discuss this at the next meeting. We do indeed have contacts with the Turkish authorities, including on this issue. I must remain guilty of the answer to the question about the embassy employee. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	You can come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	Sure, sure! I'll pass the request on to the Foreign Minister. We're just looking for a shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	I thank the Minister for her answers and for confirming that some 20 people now want to use the Dutch consular assistance. The Minister says that there is a suspicion that more people might need it, but they have not indicated it. I am curious on the basis of which these Turkish Dutch should not be allowed to leave the country. Can the Minister say anything about that? If there are legal procedures, I can hardly imagine, with some reluctance, anything else, but even if there are no legal procedures, there is arbitrariness. That is a dangerous basic attitude towards international traffic, especially given the amount of Turkish Dutch people who regularly travel to Turkey, which my next question is about. I can just imagine that upcoming May holidays many would like to visit their family or friends in Turkey. In what way does the Minister warn Turkish Dutch people about the potential problems they may face as Turkey acts so unpredictablely? I am very pleased to hear that this problem is also being discussed at European level. As the Minister says, this does not only affect Dutch people with dual nationality. They're Germans, too. I understood that it was also Austrians and that the Swiss were now allowed to go home. The Minister says that this is discussed in the so-called like-minded consultation. There will soon be a Foreign Affairs Council where this can be discussed at political level. I can easily imagine that the scale and consequences of the problem would justify that. Finally, I understand that the Minister does not currently have an answer to the question on the judicial liaison. I would like to have that answer quickly and in writing, not to tease the Minister, but because this is the liaison who also cooperates with us in the fight against terrorism and because things went wrong in the case of El Bakraoui.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	That last request I referred to the Foreign Minister, but I heard Mr Sjoerdsma very well. I'll come to his other questions. I would like to say that my colleague Bert Koenders has also personally raised this issue at a high political level. When people report to our embassy in Ankara, we ask them to share with us as much information as they consider relevant, but we do not know what they all share with us. For reasons that they themselves consider important, some people do not give all the reasons and background information. The answer to the question of whether it concerns people who are in a procedure must therefore remain guilty. We do not know that, because we depend on the information people give themselves. It is also sometimes difficult to keep in touch with people, because they do come forward, but do not leave any contact details that allow us to reach them all the time. Again, this has our full attention, but we depend on the information people give themselves. How do we warn people? Of course, people have to make their own decisions. There is a travel advice that addresses this issue. We encourage people to take this advice carefully, to take it to heart and to seek legal advice even if they are here and hesitate. It's an advice. Of course, we want to prevent people from getting into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	Turkey's long arm and the way in which we act outside all the democratic principles that we share here does not seem to come to an end, at least not automatically. Last week there was the exit ban. A day later it became known that a lot of Turkish Dutch people, who did not ask for it, received another letter from the AKP to vote yes. It is intimidated, lists are drawn up and there are all kinds of clubs and people involved. My question to this minister and to this government is when we get insight. When will we be able to understand what is at the basis of the exit ban? When will we get an insight into the information we may have received in the wake of the failed coup attempt in Turkey on the involvement of Dutch people? When will we get an insight into what people are involved here in the long arm, who operate here as an extension of the Turkish government and intimidate the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	As regards Turkish Dutch people who are in Turkey and cannot leave that country, I have just said that unfortunately we do not have a clear understanding because of the lack of information on their underlying causes. I will also pass on Mrs Karabulut's second question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This issue is regularly raised in this Chamber for the reasons mentioned by Mrs Karabulut, who are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	No, Mrs. Karabulut. Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	This was not so much about the long arm here as about the suffocating hand that Erdogan still makes feel during his campaign and probably afterwards in Turkey itself. I should like once again to answer a question that we asked, just like Mrs Karabulut, a few weeks ago. We then called on the Foreign Minister and his colleagues in the cabinet to look at exactly what is going on with the increasing number of declarations within the Turkish-Dutch community in the Netherlands. We are very concerned about this with a number of Members of Parliament. We'd hear about it. I would like to join with Mrs Karabulut's questions and ask the government, through you, Mr President, when we can receive anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	I will pass this on to and discuss with the Foreign Minister. There is no doubt that he already has a timeline in mind for this, because this has been discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	I understand that this has been promised before. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	Can you give me a deadline? That would help, because I understand that there will be a debate next week. It would be nice if that information reached the Chamber for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	Can I put it to him in those words?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you! Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	My question is in the same vein. What happens to Turkish Dutch people here fits in a much broader pattern. It is not just about the long arm in the Netherlands or the way people are treated with Turkish and Dutch passports, but also about how people with Turkish passports are becoming increasingly victims of suspensions, of dismissal, of imprisonment and of evil to worse. I can imagine that we would like to wait for the outcome of the referendum. But is it not even time to understand the attitude not only of the Netherlands but also of the EU towards this ever-increasing violation of human rights in Turkey against anyone with a Turkish passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	As far as I know, this has been discussed regularly, for example in the RBZ. A report has also been published by a committee of the Council of Europe, if I do have it. I am hesitant because, for understandable reasons, I do not want to dictate the rhythm of my colleague Mr Koenders' debate. However, it is extremely obvious to discuss this issue not only in this Parliament, but also in Brussels and with other Member States. I have just said that there is a 'like minded' high level of official consultation, in order to address precisely the issues between the Netherlands and Turkey and Austria and Turkey that concern the Dutch. However, this does not mean that there is no consideration of what happens in Turkey itself with people with one passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	No. Then it is indeed very important to discuss this broader framework with "like minded" countries and in the various EU bodies. However, it will also be necessary, therefore, to put the relationship with the outcome of the referendum on the agenda again prominently in the consultations with Turkey itself. That is something that is still a little vague in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	Good diplomacy dictates that we discuss relevant issues for the Netherlands' human rights relevance not only among each other, but also arrange and discuss in consultation with the country concerned. I don't see why that might not happen tomorrow, but in a while. It seems important to me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	For the term "like minded" we also have a beautiful Dutch word, namely similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yeah, like-minded. Excuse me. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
