ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of OCW to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill, which is simply called 'protection of names and degrees of higher education'. However, this bill is not only about the protection of names and degrees and what is related to them, but about more. It also introduces something very new: the Minister is given the opportunity to deprive an institution of its recognition of degrees, regardless of the quality of the training, when a formal or informal representative of the institution is guilty of discrimination. The majority of the members of the CDA Group are in favour of the legislative proposal, but they have a major problem with one point of principle. First of all, what does my group agree with? The members support the desire to protect students and employers against misleading use of the name "university" or "high school" and against malicious institutions, especially if wrongly so-called degrees are envisaged. The members of the CDA Group also support the fact that the bill also obliges non-cost institutions to promote their students' sense of social responsibility, as is the case for funded higher education institutions. A few years ago, this obligation was wrongly removed by a legislative amendment for non-cost institutions. Now it's gonna be part of the solidity requirements again. The members also welcome the fact that the Evangelical College and the Free University can retain their name and that the title "Lector" is protected. Members also support the proposal that the Minister should be empowered to deprive an institution of recognition of degrees under conditions and in special cases. This can be done if the way in which an institution implements the promotion of the sense of social responsibility is grossly contrary to the existing framework of standards and legislation. The members also agree that the initiative to start this process will lie with the Minister. Members understand that the Minister has sought ways to respond to the urgent appeal of the House of Representatives and others, following some incidents at the Islamic University of Rotterdam, in order to intervene at the level of the institution when higher education institutions commit themselves, for example, to sowing hatred and calling for violence. So where is the problem for the CDA Group? Members have a problem with the way in which the legislative proposal develops the power to deny recognition, in particular with the far-reaching powers conferred on the Minister. The draft law gives the Minister the power to withdraw the recognition of a higher education institution if the institution does not properly fulfil the mission of promoting a sense of social responsibility. In any event, according to the presentation of the proposal, there is evidence that a formal or informal representative of the institution is guilty of discriminatory expressions according to the Minister's views. In that case, the Minister may initiate the process to deprive the recognition. There's a roadmap for that. For example, the Minister will review the statements made by the Court of Human Rights and will warn the institution, after which the institution will have three months to distance itself from discriminatory statements. If the institution fails to do so, the Minister may withdraw the recognition. De facto, this will lead to the closure of the educational establishment. The institution will no longer be able to train up to recognised degrees and students will no longer receive study funding. Can the Minister say again today exactly what the scope of this provision is? What is meant by "formal" and "informal" representatives? What informal representatives do the Minister consider to be covered by the provision? Can the Minister also comment on whether it is relevant under what circumstances or at what location the expressions were made? Does it concern only expressions towards students; only expressions made on the institutions themselves or beyond, for example in the media, or expressions whether or not distributed through third parties via social media? I'd like a response from the Minister. Let me now turn to the concept of distance. The Minister provides the institutions with guidance on what is to be understood. In principle, it is sufficient for the administration of the institution to refrain from making statements verbally and publicly. Disciplinary measures are not necessarily necessary. The members of the CDA Group understand that the Minister cannot and will not enter into the private relations between employer and employee. But does this not mean that the undesirable situation can de facto survive? Isn't that also true if the institution doesn't distance itself but appeals and applies for an interim remedy? If the Minister wants to deprive an institution of recognition because it is a threat to society, does the Minister not think that in such a case all possible legal remedies should be used, including, for example, declaration, use of the inspection and the private-law route? Does the Minister see a role for himself as a system responsible for reporting, engaging in the inspection and starting of the private-law journey? If not, why not? Can the Minister say again what specific initiatives it has taken in the case of the Islamic University of Rotterdam? The members of the CDA Group also have serious concerns about the proportionality of competence. The Minister will be given the opportunity to deprive a whole institution of recognition on the basis of unwanted statements by one formal representative, even if the quality of education is not at stake. By the way, can the Minister only intervene or intervene with non-costed institutions, for example through the inspection, possibly also at the University of Groningen, Nijmegen or Utrecht as one informal representative of this kind, and the institution does not properly distance itself from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mrs Martens asks a number of very valid questions, but they do raise the question: what is the position of Mrs Martens herself? Does she think that the Minister should be able to intervene in some way? Or does she say: is this part of the law going too far for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u4	I come to that later in my speech. I have already said that our group has no problem in itself with the Minister being able to intervene. The only question is: as a result of what and at what time? What's to precede? I'll get to that in my contribution. The legislative proposal makes the Minister's assessment as to whether there is discrimination, hate speech or any other unwanted expression, how these expressions relate to academic freedom, freedom of expression and other fundamental rights, such as freedom of religion, and whether the statements are of such a nature that it is justified to deprive an institution of recognition. In such a case, the Minister may use his or her powers of withdrawal of recognition. That's a far-reaching jurisdiction. After all, this is not just an administrative assessment of compliance with legal rules. No, as the Minister himself has repeatedly pointed out, this is a concrete weighting of fundamental rights in a specific case. In our legal system, the criminal court has given its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mrs Martens makes it abundantly clear where the concerns lie with regard to the CDA Group. At the beginning of her speech, she spoke of "a point of principle." If that point is so fundamental, why didn't the CDA in the Lower House get so worried about it? In other words, what happened between the treatment in the Lower House and the treatment here? What's changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u6	We have a duty to make independent decisions, and that is what we are doing. I told you, it's a far-reaching jurisdiction. It is not just an administrative assessment of compliance with legislation but a weighting of fundamental rights. The Minister takes the view that waiting for a judge's ruling is too long. According to the Minister, this is not in line with the desire to make haste. "Every year longer is one year too much," the Minister writes. According to the Minister, if the judge's judgment is to be awaited, action cannot be taken. If many people in the Netherlands find a situation a threat to our democratic rule of law, the desire to act quickly may be understandable. In that case, however, quick judgement is at least as dangerous. That is precisely why a system of division of powers and checks and balances is in place in our legal system. Through the exercise of the right of withdrawal, the case becomes part of an administrative control system. This substantially changes the current balanced system. The members of the CDA Group have taken note of the roadmap the Minister intends to reach. This is without prejudice to the Minister's final weighing and final judgment. The Minister says that it is "not the intention" to affect academic freedom and freedom of expression, that these are situations where "ready" is that the existing framework of standards and legal regulations are being violated and that the assessment will be based on case law and judgments of the College of Human Rights. But the Minister also knows, I think, that what is clear to the one is not necessarily in the eyes of all. The balancing of fundamental rights in a concrete case against relevant context is and remains complex. In that case, it is all the more important to make the judgement on discriminatory statements in line with our legal system to the independent and impartial criminal court and not to the executive. Without prejudice to the foregoing, it is not clear to the members of the CDA Group on the basis of which the Minister is convinced that she, or the Ministry of Education, can arrive at a more rapid and careful assessment than the judge. How does this rapid assessment and lack of experience relate to the perceived careful assessment? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I come to speak about the role of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mrs Martens assumes that the criminal court can do it faster than the minister acting independently. But the Minister has no control whatsoever over the speed of action of a judge, in the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u8	My question was exactly the other way around: why does the Minister think she can do it faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u9	I think it's because she'll set the timetable in motion herself. Anyway, the Minister will have to answer that himself in a moment. In my opinion, in the separation of powers, if the Minister puts it in the hands of another power, in this case in that of the judge, it is not about the speed of action. That's the other power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u10	No, but the Minister could invite the judiciary to give an opinion on this. But I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u11	In my opinion, we are right at the heart of the discussion. On the one hand, there is the need to speed up, which Mrs Martens is not fighting either, and on the other hand there is the need to do it extremely carefully. That, in my view, is also the core dilemma. Am I to understand that Mrs Martens is willing to agree to this balance at the rate of the criminal court?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u12	I didn't say that. My question is: why does the Minister think he can do it faster? We are in favour of careful consideration. The Council of State notes that the existing instruments provide a basis for this. We would like to hear from the Minister why she thinks it will delay the process or why she believes it can be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u13	Does that mean you're not taking a position on the question I just asked? Does the answer to the question I have just asked depend on the answer the Minister is going to give to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u14	I am indeed waiting for the Minister's answer first. I would like to know why the Minister thinks that she can make such a balanced judgment more quickly. I am not convinced that the judge will need a much longer period than the minister. I come to speak about the role of the House of Representatives. The Roadmap provides that in the event of a warning and also in the event of withdrawal of recognition, the Minister may or may not inform the Lower House confidentially. The members of the CDA Group are concerned that this will create the risk of a political assessment of what is a discriminatory expression. They believe that this should be prevented. The Minister considers this step to be appropriate to the role of the House of Representatives because it has the responsibility to exercise control over the executive. The Lower House can then ask the Minister for an explanation. This response by the Minister was intended to reassure the members of the CDA Group, but this did not remove her concerns. If the Chamber is informed, the matter will inevitably end up in the political sphere. It is not up to the executive or the legislator or the politician to judge in a specific case whether or not an expression is discriminatory or hateful. It is precisely the "obligatory" to involve the House of Representatives that inevitably leads to politicisation of the answer to that question. The members of the CDA Group believe that this once again supports the need for that assessment to be a criminal court. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. In short, the members of the CDA Group can go along with the idea that the initiative to initiate the process of depriving an institution of recognition in certain cases lies with the Minister, but have a major problem with proportionality and the fact that this bill makes the judgement on whether there is discrimination to the Minister. This should be in the criminal court. The Minister should be able to withdraw recognition only if he has held that there are discriminatory expressions of such a kind as to justify the withdrawal of recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u15	I'm still puzzled about what Mrs Martens says about informing the House of Representatives. Is it conceivable for Mrs Martens that if a university decides in a certain way, the Lower House will ask the Minister to act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u16	I think the House of Representatives always has that right. The issue now is that the House of Representatives should remain outside the scope of the assessment of what is a discriminatory act. The Chamber can always ask the Minister to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u17	Then I have read the Minister's answers differently. They were about an information role of the minister. So I don't understand why if the Minister informs the House of Representatives confidentially or not about her actions, Mrs Martens immediately assesses that as a political action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mrs Nooren will agree with me that if the Minister explains anything in the Chamber, it will enter the political circuit and be drawn into the political sphere, he will also answer any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u19	Mrs Nooren, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u20	Then I'll turn it around. Mrs Martens therefore says that the Minister must take the initiative. Steps are being taken and there is a roadmap. But she advises the Minister not to inform the House of Representatives, I conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u21	I ask how the Minister intends to prevent it from getting into politics. The Minister's answer to this question did not reassure our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u22	I have just asked Mrs Martens about her opinion on the primacy of the criminal court. She said she wanted to suspend her assessment of that role until she had been given a ruling by the Minister on the pace of her work. Now, in her description of the trial, I think I can see that she wants the judge of the criminal court to precede an initiative by the minister. I do not see any alternative to this at the rate of the criminal court and, if necessary, at the rate of the appeal brought against his first ruling. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u23	I don't think so. I think the Minister can warn and present a case at the same time. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. If the recognition is not withdrawn than after a judgment has been given on this case, the assessment of the case is not in the hands of one person, but at least within our legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u24	Does this imply that if the institution were in any way dissatisfied with the ruling of the criminal court which gave rise to the ministerial initiative, it would have to appeal to the same criminal court to appeal to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u25	No, he'll end up with the board judge. If the Minister takes a measure, there is an appeal to the Administrative Court and not to the Criminal Court. You put it where it belongs in our eyes. After a conviction, the Minister may deny recognition. I can also imagine that you are doing that at first instance, so you are not waiting for it to be submitted to the Supreme Court, and that it is also possible to speed it up. The Minister may then withdraw the recognition, after which the ordinary procedure is possible with the administrative judge, not with the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u26	Finally. This therefore means that the criminal court, in response to the warning, gives an opinion on the establishment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u27	No, from the informal person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u28	Or from anyone, against whom the defendant cannot appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u29	No, that doesn't matter. He could appeal that, too. That's two different things. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. The criminal route of the conviction is one and the administrative route is two. That is exactly the confusion I read in a lot of pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u30	If I understand Mrs Martens correctly, she says that the Minister should only go through a roadmap. If the Minister comes to the conclusion that something is going on, she should refer it to the judge. If that reasoning is correct and Mrs Martens meant it, then surely that road map does not need to be regulated by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u31	No, I agree with Mr Schalk, but the Minister wants to implement a roadmap. Prior to the warning, it wants to study the case law, such as rulings of the College of Human Rights. That's a good idea. There may be a warning. That doesn't have any legal effect yet, but it is a signal. If the criminal court then decides on the nature of the discriminatory statements, it must be arranged so that it does not take too long, the Minister may withdraw the recognition. The person may then appeal to the criminal court and the institution before the administrative court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u32	Does Mrs Martens agree with me that there is therefore no need for law at all? The Minister can do this with a roadmap anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u33	Yes, the Minister can do it. If this provision were to be out of the law, the Minister would be given an additional opportunity. Discrimination will then become a component for inspection and also for assessing the quality of training. It is about promoting the sense of social responsibility. Then maybe it wouldn't be necessary. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u34	I'm trying to understand. Part of this bill is that there is an informal or formal expression of a person and that the driver is asked if this is an expression on behalf of the institution. My first question is who will be the subject of criminal action. I think that is the director of the institution, because it is an expression on behalf of the institution. Mrs Martens thinks that the Minister should give a warning, but at the same time she says that the Minister is not the one to give that warning, because the Minister cannot judge whether something is discriminatory. Then I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u35	I do not think it can be seen as an expression of the institution if an informal representative makes a discriminatory statement. That is also provided for in this bill. The institution still has the opportunity to distance itself from it, so it is not necessarily an expression of the institution. What was the other point again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u36	It is a formal or informal expression on behalf of the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u37	No, it is a formal or informal representative who makes a discriminatory statement. If the institution does not distance itself from that statement, it shall be considered to be the institution. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u38	Then who is the criminal case to serve against?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u39	It's about the discriminatory expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u40	Then who's the defendant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u41	One more answer, or we're gonna get a well-nickle here. That's not working properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u42	The defendant is the one who makes the discriminatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u43	Mrs Nooren, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u44	The judge is given by the criminal court, but at the same time why does Mrs Martens think that the Minister can give a credit by giving a warning? Then what is the warning based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u45	The warning could be the first step towards denying recognition. This includes a judgment, but in our view that judgment should not lie with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u46	I would like to leave it at that, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u47	I have a question about the implications of the CDA proposal. In addition to the Constitution, there are other laws that prohibit discrimination and require a minister to rule, such as the AWGB, the WGBH, the WGBL, the WGB, the WOA and the WOBOT. In some of these laws, there is first a test time prior to a minister's decision, for example using a committee of experts. None of these laws first brings the court in. I don't know why, possibly because of feasibility problems. Can I now understand the CDA's plea in such a way that, in all these laws and also in future in the Constitution, the judge must be brought before a minister makes such a ruling? That would be consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u48	No, I didn't say that. The expert test is missing from this bill. That's one of the big problems with it. This bill states that it is only up to the Minister to assess this. I understand there are problems. I also understand that the Minister would like to be able to intervene. That's what was asked, by the way. I also trust this minister is doing well, but you don't know who or what is coming. We are here to ensure for the future that it is done carefully, as far as we are concerned, within our current legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u49	If Mrs Martens had already told you, I wouldn't have asked. But let's get this over with. I can see from this that if a solution were found along the same lines as a solution was found in the aforementioned legislative proposals, namely a review by a committee of experts or the Human Rights College, which would address what Mrs Martens herself calls the major problem of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u50	Then I come to the next paragraph of my plenary contribution, so I suggest that I continue with it. The Minister said that she could imagine submitting a case to an ad hoc committee of experts if she so wished. Although a test by an external committee of experts would be better than that it is up to the minister alone, the CDA Group is not waiting for another committee to be set up and believes that the judgment on discrimination and the balancing of fundamental rights should lie with the criminal court. In addition, it remains an advisory committee and ultimately it is up to the Minister to judge. So this is not a real solution to the problem outlined above. Finally, I have questions about the judge's review. In the event of withdrawal of recognition, an institution may bring an action before the Administrative Court. The members are curious about the extent and intensity of the judicial review. The Minister states that it will always be a full review. Members of this House are told by lawyers that they have serious doubts about this. On what basis does the Minister come to the conclusion that the judge will, by definition, be able and willing to test fully in all cases? Will the administrative judge not particularly judge whether the Minister is competent to withdraw recognition, what it becomes with this law? If the judge will also judge whether there is discrimination, will he only check whether there are discriminatory expressions or will he still be in a position to check whether there is such serious discrimination or hatred so that it can no longer reasonably be said that the institution promotes the social responsibility of its students? Will this not affect him too much in the area of criminal law, so that you can also have a problem in the legal sphere? In other words, what discretion does the Minister have in the assessment of the expressions? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, a question in response to the concerns in the field about article 7.23a, which states that after completing a certain training abroad, you may use the designation that goes with it abroad. The draft law does not contain any qualitative limitation with regard to foreign graduates. How does the Minister see the risk of inflation of titles as we know them, if there is no effective brake on an indication based on an incomparable foreign degree in terms of level, for example from doctor or PhD? I'd like a response from the Minister. There is much more to say about the bill. We have limited our contribution to the most fundamental problem and look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. The openness of our higher education system means that the names 'university', 'university','school', 'bachelor' and'master' can be used too often. That is threatening for the good reputation that our higher education has. Therefore, the proposed legislative amendment proposes a set of different measures and measures to promote social responsibility. The discussion during the written exchange of views focused on this last point. The members of my group thank the government for the comprehensive response. My group supports the principle that higher education institutions have the task of preparing their students, often young adults, for this society in an important phase of their development, and their role and responsibilities in it. My group welcomes the concrete measures in this direction announced by the Minister in her letter to the House of Representatives of 7 February last, such as investment in smaller-scale education, the Equal Opportunities Alliance, talent programmes and the City Deal Knowledge Making. The WHW has for many years included the legal obligation of institutions to promote the sense of social responsibility of their students. Previously, this applied to funded and non-feasible institutions. However, as a result of a legislative amendment, this has been unintentionally removed from non-cost institutions for a number of years. This bill restores this and regulates that non-cost institutions will be given the task of promoting their students' sense of social responsibility. My group fully supports the thrust of this proposal. It is unthinkable and unacceptable for my group that Article 1 of the Constitution should apply only where the State pays. In addition, the current legal omission and the resulting area appear to be effectively abused for the purpose of expressing statements by authorities of higher education institutions, by allowing men to beat their wives, that stoning would be a prescribed punishment and that a vote on a particular political party would involve a vote on homosexuals and terrorists. This week, too, we saw tweets and tweets that are the social media, I say to Mrs Martens in that spirit who did not lie about it. My group, like other political groups, has asked questions about the role of the Minister in assessing whether or not discriminatory statements are being made. Can the Minister do that? Is this a Novum? Shouldn't this be left to the judge? The Government's replies show that a judge has no system of responsibility in education and cannot remove an institution from the system. Reporting in the event of discrimination, as also suggested by the Council of State, is certainly appropriate, but cannot lead to removal from the system. That power belongs not to the judge, but to the executive. In this case, with the Minister. The Minister is responsible for ensuring the quality of higher education provided under the WHW, as also established by the Council of State. Such an assessment is also applied elsewhere. For example, the Promotion of Integrity Assessments Act by the Public Administration, the Bibob Act, regulates the power of administrative bodies to refuse or withdraw certain grants or authorisations, if it is suspected that criminal offences, such as discrimination, will be committed or committed. In that case too, as with traffic fines, where we do not first seek advice from the judge, it is up to the administrative body to assess it and the court only comes to its attention after an appeal against the decision of the administrative body has been lodged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u52	I agree that the Secretary of State is responsible for the system. That's what my contribution was about. It is not a problem that the Minister has the power to withdraw. A judge can't do that. However, there is also a consultative committee at the Bibob Act, to which Mr Bruijn refers. My question is therefore whether Mr Bruijn does not find it a problem for one person to judge such a serious case, so that statements made by an informal representative, possibly by third parties through the social media, can lead to one person, being the minister, denying recognition to an entire institution. That's a big deal. It is also different from other legislation, as Mr Bruijn suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u53	I'd almost say I didn't say that. But then Mrs Martens will say: I would not have asked if you had said so. So I won't say. For the sake of clarity, I refer to the continuation of my speech, if Mrs Martens agrees. I'll get back to you on that. Let it be said that, although the Minister is a legal person, she is fortunately assisted by a number of highly qualified officials, in whom I have great confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u54	Good to hear some examples from Mr Bruijn of other laws that seem to be similar. But in order to prevent us from comparing apples with raspberries, is the following important thing: are they all laws that involve weighing fundamental rights? In most cases, this is not the case in the case of a traffic fine. Does Mr Bruijn have any examples in which a weighting of fundamental rights is needed to enable a decision by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u55	In a previous interruption, I mentioned six laws which deal with discriminatory views, on which the competent authority must judge. A number of these laws also involve an advisory committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u56	In which of these examples where there is no consultative commission, is it really a matter of weighing fundamental rights? The fact that this is a question of discrimination does not mean that fundamental rights are always considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u57	I didn't dig that deep into the law. We can do that, but that does not change the fact that that is indeed the case with this law and that we are standing here to talk to each other about how we ensure that it is done carefully. I have not yet come to my thoughts on this, at least to those of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u58	Thank you. This helps, because it means that at least we know that the raspberries that Mr Bruijn is putting on the table do not say much about the Minister's apples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u59	Mr Ganzevoort drew that conclusion without having first investigated it. That wouldn't last long in my business. Those are his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u60	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u61	I did not say that I reached that conclusion; I said that the examples given to us by Mr Bruijn are not telling us very much at the moment, because they have not yet been properly selected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u62	Nor have I mentioned the examples for this purpose, I have mentioned them as examples of other laws which deal with discrimination and on which the competent authority has to judge. None of those laws have chosen a course to court prior to that judgment. In some of these laws, however, an external advisory committee has been chosen, in whatever form, to make that opinion more accurate. That's why I mentioned this. In that sense, these laws are similar to what is going on here. In a more profound sense, of course, they are very different, just because they deal with other subjects. The government's replies show that a judge has no system responsibility. Reporting in the event of discrimination, as suggested by the Council of State, is certainly appropriate, but cannot lead to removal from the system. That power belongs not to the judge, but to the executive. The Minister of Education is responsible for ensuring the quality of higher education given under the WHW. It's also written by the Council of State. Such a method of assessment is also applied elsewhere. For example, the Promotion of Integrity Assessments Act regulates the power to refuse or withdraw certain grants or authorisations if criminal offences are suspected to be committed. In that case too, it is first for the administrative body and then for the court, after an appeal and appeal have been lodged, to make a judgment. It is therefore not new that administrative bodies take decisions and enforcement decisions on the basis of an assessment of legal provisions. These decisions should take into account relevant facts and circumstances. These decisions shall be based on an assessment by the administrative authority or on compliance with certain legal rules. With this bill, the Minister of Education does not therefore take the role of the judge, as has been pointed out by others. It is up to the Minister to make a careful decision on depriving non-cost higher education institutions of their right to grant WHW degrees. The Minister is therefore responsible for the system of higher education; he already has the power to deprive an institution of its rights when it does not comply with legal requirements under Article 6.10 (1) of the WHW. For example, the Minister may intervene where the administrative or financial continuity of which the legal person originates is no longer guaranteed, or where the institution does not comply with the obligation to provide the necessary information. This is not, therefore, limited to the quality of education. It's about other things now, too. This has much less to do with the quality of education than with discriminatory statements. Moreover, the Minister is under parliamentary control at all times. In the assessment prior to the decision to deprive rights on the basis of the breach of the obligation to promote the sense of social responsibility, the Minister is in line with the existing framework of standards, as laid down by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u63	Do you believe that in the current system, if there is a presumption of discriminatory behaviour in university training, the legislation is sufficient to withdraw recognition of that training? If so, what is it based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u64	I'll get to that. The answer to that question will be yes, by the way. In my group's view, this, contrary to what the Council of State says, directly affects the quality and mission of education. I am referring to combating discrimination. This is a reason for the Council of State to waive its rights. My group differs from the Council of State in that discrimination would have nothing to do with the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u65	Is this also the case if there is no indication of discrimination in education itself, but only the statements of a rector through tweets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u66	If these statements are made formally on behalf of the institution, it is in the opinion of my group and myself, working in education, that this is directly related to the quality of education, and especially because it is also contrary to what is laid down in the law, because in many areas of education it is not the case, namely the duty to teach social standards. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u67	This bill is not about whether an expression is made on behalf of the institution, it provides that, if a discriminatory statement is made by a formal or informal representation, it is considered to be done on behalf of the institution, irrespective of whether it is intended to be. Then it can only be proved that it does not happen on behalf of that institution if it distances itself from it. However, the law states that the expression of an informal representative alone would be sufficient. Doesn't that go a little far, even for Mr Bruijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u68	That is an interesting and rightful question. You could even go further: if a total outsider of a legal person makes a judgment, after which the legal person is asked whether he agrees with it or disassociates from it, and that legal person does not disassociate itself from it in public, then there is a matter of imputing that legal person to that judgment. If, moreover, that is someone who works at that institution, my group has no doubt that that legal person is responsible for this, given the roadmap laid down in the law, in which that institution is asked whether those statements have been made on its behalf or whether it is disassociating itself from it. That institution will have an extensive opportunity to do so. If this does not happen repeatedly, then my group says: yes, it is in spirit and according to the letter of the law to charge that institution. At least my group assumes that the Minister will do so, but that is still subject to appeal and objection to a possible judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u69	If I understand Mr Bruijn correctly, he says: if there is a discriminatory statement, it is actually about the quality of education. But when it comes to the quality of education, doesn't the Minister already have powers? Why would you have to settle that in this law in a cumbersome way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u70	This law actually regulates two things that you have to tear apart. One thing is that it is restored that this law applies in general to uncosted training; I think we all have no problem with that. The other is that it is suggested that this means enlargement. This includes the concept of social standard that is already in the WHW adopted here. I would like to add that under the current law, with this bill in hand, there is no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u71	Mr Bruijn says that if an outsider makes a statement and does not want to distance himself from it, that might already be a ground. I may not have understood him correctly, but at least that's what it sounded like. That goes way beyond this law. I think it is a bizarre idea that if an institution wanted to say 'no comment', that would not be possible. Is that what he means?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u72	That is not in this law and it is not in question. I mentioned this as an example in relation to the question of whether my group agrees with the government's position. That view is that if someone, formally or informally, makes a decision on behalf of an institution, it may also turn out afterwards that he or she has been made on behalf of the institution and that the institution is explicitly asked whether she disassociates from it or is behind it, but which does not then indicate, you could turn it into a matter for the institution to take that decision. In reply to the question whether my group agrees, I said that you could even make it a matter in another case, although I do not know if you are making it a success. If someone else makes a ruling and the institution, or any other legal person, is asked whether it agrees with it or that it withdraws from it, after which it repeatedly agrees and does not want to distance itself from it, then you may charge the institution. However, that is a theoretical case that I have just mentioned to support the fact that it is becoming easier when it comes to someone who works at the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u73	Then I understand Mr Bruijn a little better. He says "if the institution agrees." Agreed, but he didn't just say that, because then he said "if the institution doesn't distance itself from it." That would mean that we could ask all universities "are you disassociating from the PVV's position on Moroccans?" or "are you disassociating yourself from the position of the rector from Rotterdam?'. I hope we're not going that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u74	No, that's why I only mentioned that as a theoretical example. I did so on the basis of the question: if someone who works formally or informally on behalf of an institution makes a ruling, after which the institution is asked whether that statement was made on its behalf, or whether it is one of its employees and whether it falls within the scope of freedom of expression and does not, on a number of occasions, distance herself from it. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u75	I have another point. Do I understand Mr Bruijn correctly that he thinks that if the article which states that the Minister is allowed to judge what is or is not discrimination disappears, the rest of this bill will give rise to more points of reference for inspection to intervene? Promoting the sense of social responsibility is also covered by the requirement for funded and unpaid institutions. There are also other possibilities, such as the Civil Code, to which Mr Bruijn referred. Does he agree with me that, even without the determination of assessment, the Minister will be given more opportunities to intervene, whether through inspection or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u76	That's a very interesting question. This applies to Article 1.3 (5) of this law. It sets out something that was already in it, namely the need for institutions to promote students' sense of social responsibility. It's already in the law, and it's still in the law. This is only extended to non-cost institutions. In addition, it is suggested that this includes the making of discriminatory expressions. Is this adding something new or is it merely being stipulated which you can reasonably assume was also meant by the previous law? I will come back to that, but my group is the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, this affects the fact that the Minister is in line with the existing framework of standards and makes a ruling on them, contrary to what the Council of State states, directly to the quality and mission of education, which, according to the Council of State, also gives rise to the withdrawal of rights. On that point, we agree with the Council of State. Can the Minister confirm and explain that such a procedure respects what the judiciary and the Human Rights College have previously regarded as discriminatory? Is it true that the scope of the Minister's action does not extend beyond the withdrawal of the public recognition of a higher education institution? The judge comes into the picture when the institution disagrees with the Minister's decision and goes to court. When, under the General Administrative Law, a decision of an administrative body is challenged and the court is called upon, the judge not only reviews that decision in procedural terms but also in substance, the members of my group understand it. In the event of a waiver of the right to grant WHW degrees due to discriminatory expressions, the court will, inter alia, assess whether it has been rightly held that there has been a discriminatory expression. Can the Minister confirm that she and her successors will always follow a careful administrative procedure before action can be taken within the administrative framework of careful decision-making and the legal protection frameworks of the institutions concerned? What is the Minister's view of the option of involving an independent consultant or advisory body in this procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u79	I am curious about the timing of Mr Bruijn's question. He asked whether we can assume that the minister and all of her successors in law will not act until the administrative procedure has been brought to an end. Let me get this straight. Mr Rinnooy Kan just outlined a scale of speed and care, but this could still take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u80	I have asked the Minister whether she can confirm that she and her successors in law will always follow a careful administrative procedure before action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mr Bruijn says 'before action can be taken', but the legislative proposal says that it is already being withdrawn, after which it is possible to object and appeal to that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u82	No, the bill states that a roadmap must be followed first. That's a careful procedure. Among other things, the institution is asked: is this on your behalf? There is a whole step-by-step plan for this. If this careful administrative procedure has been completed, action can be taken, at least I have asked the Minister if I have understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr Bruijn then confines the administrative procedure to the procedure prior to the administrative judge. I find that a little confusing; let me summarize it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u84	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That is why I have also talked about 'a careful administrative procedure'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u85	But the law rules that this is the careful procedure, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u87	I suppose that's what the minister and her successors are after, isn't it? However, Mr Bruijn himself already asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u88	I am very glad that Mrs Martens is expressing that confidence now. This is an important moment in this debate. I have asked the Minister to confirm this both for her and for her successors in law, but I understand that the CDA is already convinced that the minister and her successors in law will go through this careful procedure. Then we'll get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u89	Is the procedure proposed here careful? If it is proposed, then you can assume that the Minister will go through it, but the question is whether this is a careful procedure to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u90	That's right. That is why I have also asked whether the Minister will go through a careful procedure at all times. I expect the Minister to answer the question as to what this procedure looks like. Then, in the second term, we can assess whether we find that procedure carefully. I agree with Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u91	Mr Bruijn asked whether the Minister could guarantee that she and her successors would go through a careful administrative procedure. How does Mr Bruijn think that this Minister can guarantee to the Chamber that all its successors will go through this careful procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u92	The Minister can't do that, and I didn't ask him to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u93	Then Mr Bruijn must explain exactly what he means by "the minister and her successors in law."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u94	When a minister transfers his portfolio to the next minister, it is not accompanied by guarantees, but by commitments. A next minister may act differently within the area provided by the law and within the agreements that exist, but then there is a parliament and there are other checks and balances to call the minister to order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u95	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u96	It would be a good thing for Mr Bruijn to confine himself to this minister, because he suggests that this minister can give guarantees that she cannot give.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u97	I'll involve her successors in law enforcement. I did not use the word 'guarantee', but I do expect the Minister to say 'I will ensure that this is included in the transfer file'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u98	Is Mr Bruijn suggesting, by using terms such as "checks and balances" and "parliamentary control," that he wants to draw this into the political sphere? That's parliamentary control, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u99	The Minister and the government are always under parliamentary control. In order to answer the question whether you think that is political or not, we have to go back to Plato, Socrates and the Politeia, but then it will be a very semantic discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u100	Let's not do that, Mr Bruijn. I think it is best if you continue your speech. I would ask everyone to allow Mr Bruijn to continue his speech, otherwise it will be very late tonight. Go ahead, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u101	I agree with the interruption. I asked how the Minister is looking at the option that had previously been raised to involve an independent consultant or advisory body in this procedure. That is not the first thought that comes to mind in my group. The Minister is under the control of the cabinet, of the Lower House and of the Upper Chamber. The judge may also give a ruling and the Council of State may then give a ruling. When it comes to criminal law, the Public Prosecutor's Office can interfere with all that policy. In principle, my group trusts democracy and the rule of law. This is a decision of a government body. That's just administrative law. There may be an appeal and an appeal. The deadlines are short and the costs are low. Perhaps the Minister could discuss the appeal procedure. Of course, an objection does not delay implementation. That could be a discussion point. If the Minister is thinking of a committee, my group wonders how the powers of that committee are regulated, what legal title that committee is going to operate, how the committee was set up at the Human Rights College, it is, of course, a little easier to answer than an ad hoc or a standing committee and by whom the committee is to be set up. The opinion is then, I presume, not binding. Should the Minister deviate from that or not be justified, if she deviates from it, so that it can also be checked by the judge? These are questions that my group has when it comes to a possible solution towards a committee. That is the wish of this Chamber, and my group would like to take part in it, although in principle we rely on confidence in the parliamentary system. If the Minister intends to set up such a committee, is the Minister prepared to undertake to examine the possibility of a maximum period of time within which such a committee should give advice? Then I come to questions asked before. In the present proposal for a law, Article 1.3 (5) is replaced by the following: "Promoting social responsibility means at least that institutions, including those representing them formally and informally, refrain from discriminatory statements and behaviour." It is a question of whether something is being added to those discriminatory expressions. That is the new sentence that is being added, and my group welcomes it, but reads it in substance as a clarification and an explanation and not as an extension of the scope of Article 1.3. After all, my group believes that discrimination cannot be reconciled with social responsibility and certainly not in an educational situation. This is already reflected in Article 1.3 (5) of the current law. It is inconceivable for my group that, if under current legislation a funded institution would engage in statements such as those mentioned above, so if, for example, Leiden University called for the stoning of women and the minister would not intervene, then the parliament would not call the minister to account under Article 1.3 WHW and Article 1 of the Constitution at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u102	I'll be brief. I share Mr Bruijn's indignation at this terrible scenario. I understand his view that he sees the prohibition of discrimination as part of training for social responsibility. But is that belief based on something more than his personal views and those of his group? In other words, does he find any support for this view in the history and practice of this law or in its explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u103	Fortunately I do not think so, I would almost say, but that does not change the fact that we have to look into that scenario now that we are here. It is inconceivable to me that in the interpretation of the law the whole debate on how to interpret a law would be the conclusion, also by this Parliament, that if an institution under the current law makes such discriminatory statements, which would not be contrary to the spirit of the current law. This is the aim of promoting awareness of social responsibility among their students by institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u104	I hear what Mr Bruijn is saying. He says to the Minister: you might as well not have added that one sentence. That had nothing to do with the power and purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u105	I do wonder if that adds anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u106	The stoning of women seems to me to be extremely socially irresponsible. I do not think we should do that. We have learned from Mr Bruijn that it is important to read his words correctly and that the word 'one' may or may not matter. That is why my question is: is the stoning of women discriminatory? Or is it only when only women are stoned and men aren't? Isn't it just a call for violence that we shouldn't want? In other words, what do the terms he uses mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u107	That's a very good question. That is why I wonder whether the current law is not enough. The current law is about social responsibility. In the view of my group, this type of statement is undisputed. Whether you find that discrimination or not, you can discuss it further. Of course, there are other examples that have been used, again this week on Twitter, which are clearly discriminatory. What is discrimination is difficult to assess, but in practice it is what Secretary of State Wiebes said here the other day about someone at the US Court when they asked what pornography is. He said then: I recognize it when I see it. The same could be said of discrimination, but it remains difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u108	Mr. Ganzevoort feels challenged. Then I would ask that Mr Bruijn be given the opportunity to continue his speech, otherwise it will really be pajama time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u109	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I respond to the pronunciation "I recognize it when I see it." We are in the process of drafting legal texts here. One of the things I've learned in the drafting of a legal text is that you first need to know when it's going to happen and when it isn't. If we do not know exactly, the confidence in the minister who is allowed to apply it has become a bit shaky.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u110	That is true, but I thought it was about the extent to which this affects a fundamental right. The bare fact that Mr Ganzevoort is now saying that it is sometimes difficult to interpret things also applies to a traffic ticket. There it is sometimes very difficult to interpret whether the law has been broken. A body must then make an assessment and take a decision, which is subject to appeal and to appeal to the courts. That applies in general. I believe that the issue here is, above all, that because it is a question of discrimination and Article 1 of the Constitution, this Chamber was therefore considering the introduction of an additional test and not the fact that it is difficult to interpret. That's the case with a lot of laws. That's why we're doing our job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u112	In short, discrimination thus constitutes an infringement of Article 1.3 (5) of the current WHW. That is the preliminary position of my group. The extension of the scope of that article in the current legislative amendment is therefore limited to involving non-cost institutions. If my group sees this correctly, I ask the Minister. Then, in response to the concerns about the application of legislation and regulations on discrimination, should this debate not be much wider than just within the context of this legislative proposal? For this I refer to my previous interruption to Mrs Martens, in which I mentioned a number of other laws where this is also at issue. Because of the time I renounced the second part of my introduction, which was about an adjacent subject. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Bruijn. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. The promotion of social responsibility means at least that the institutions, including those representing them formally or informally, refrain from discriminatory behaviour and statements. Of course, there is more in this law, but I suspect that the rest of this bill would have been dismissed as a hammer piece, although there is still a lot of discussion about details and the question is legitimate as to how important these changes are. Today, I confine myself to the most controversial part of the law: depriving an institution whose representative has been discriminatory. That part makes this law almost self-evident as incident legislation. That alone should raise big questions in this Chamber. As far as my group is concerned, we could call it the IUR law rather than the Protection Names and Higher Education Act. The entire discussion is determined by the Minister's desire to intervene at the Islamic University Rotterdam. The Minister is sympathetic to this wish, and that is not surprising. The rector of the IUR has repeatedly discriminated and otherwise spoken in a way that does not correspond well to the standards and values that are for us under the heading of "social responsibility." My group has also offended what this rector would have said about alevites, Kurds, women, gays and so on. We can well imagine that the question arose as to how this could be stopped. That's why the idea wasn't so crazy to see if the NVAO could withdraw the accreditation. That said, it seems to me right that she does not have that competence when the quality of education is in order. That is the case. The bare fact that a rector says things that we do not reconcile with quality does not mean that it plays a role in the quality framework of the inspection or NVAO. Then the idea of using the Public Prosecutor's Office was not so crazy, but it decided not to prosecute the principal because his statements were covered by freedom of expression, freedom of religion and so on. Given the context in which some of the statements were made, it remains to be seen whether we should also count on academic freedom, which we all hold high. This does not apply to tweets, but to an argument presented as a scientific argument. The Minister then thought that she should be given the power to intervene when she hears discriminatory comments from representatives of higher education institutions. For this purpose, the general standard of awareness of social responsibility was specified as "at least refraining from discriminatory statements and behaviour." Now we are all opposed to this, at least I accept that, but it raises the question, first of all, of exactly when there are discriminatory behaviours and statements. This seems quite clear in the case of the rector of the IUR, but we do not know whether this is the case in the education of that institution itself. Could an Orthodox Protestant rector of a university, for example, be negative about other religions? Can the Theological School of the Reformed Municipalities still refuse female students if they wish to have a CROHO registration for their education? Would a progressive-liberal rector be disdainful about PVV voters? Could a PVV-supporting rector repeat statements by the party leader of the PVV on Islam? And so on. Where, I ask the Minister, exactly is the border between discriminatory and non-discriminatory behaviour and statements? To what extent can it legally tighten that limit? That alone is not enough, as has already been pointed out in the interrupting debate with Mr Bruijns. It is not just about the correct definition of the term, but also about the balance. Certain discriminatory statements lose their criminality within certain academic, religious or political contexts. It is not just a question of determining whether someone has run a red light, but also of weighing up the right not to be discriminated against against against the right to express one's own opinion or the right to have beliefs and behaviours within a religious, academic or political framework that might be punishable outside. As far as we are concerned, this balance is central to this debate. The need to strike a balance also plays a major role in the Council of State. The Council draws attention to the crucial starting point in our constitutional education system that the provision of education is free and that the government must also exercise restraint in the adoption of legal measures that can be taken. I quote: 'The essence of this is that public intervention is justified only if it is necessary to ensure the soundness of education. If an extension of the possibility of sanctions is envisaged without prejudice to the quality of education, a constitutional limit shall be exceeded." It is not only up to us in today's debate to determine when we believe that the quality of education is at stake, but ultimately how is the law to regulate whether the quality of education is at stake? The Minister tries to get rid of this by stating that education may still be given, but without recognition of the degree. However, this seems to be a sophistication because the Council of State is right to take a more fundamental approach by saying that such far-reaching sanctions do indeed affect constitutional limits without the quality being at stake. The system of responsibility of the Minister does not make that any different. So the Minister still has a problem. She's in the middle of an incident where she wants to intervene. The D.A. doesn't see it as serious enough to intervene in criminal proceedings, the NVAO sees no threat to quality and the Council of State believes that the Minister is crossing a constitutional limit if she goes on her own initiative. That seems to be the situation in which we are debating today. The written rounds and the debate so far show that some people may be inclined to help the minister because of the specific reason, while others are much more reluctant because they are ultimately mere incidents, however undesirable they may be. We could count majorities, but because of the fundamental nature of the discussion, my group believes that this is premature and not in line with the task of this Chamber. At the very least, we should first look at whether there are solutions that are less abrasive with the constitutional freedom of education, for example by having an independent body test the disputed statements or behaviours first. It is true that there is still the possibility of a firm sanction, but it is no longer based solely on the Minister's opinion. Such an independent ex ante review would be a necessary condition for my group to extend ministerial competence on this issue. Not because we distrust this minister, but because in a few weeks' time she will be expelled and we do not know who will succeed her. The proportionality of this proposal stands or falls with a proper weighting of fundamental rights and should not be left to political discretion. In this context, I would remind you of a motion in the Lower House asking the government to implement the law, as soon as it enters into force, and to withdraw the accreditation of the IUR. A majority of the House of Representatives supported this motion, even though the law would immediately have retroactive effect, as the minister rightly said, because the IUR should be punished for statements made before the law was in force. Not only that, it seems that the Members of Parliament who supported this motion had all already made the legally sustainable balance between the reprehensible nature of the statements on the one hand and all fundamental freedoms on the other. In doing so, the Court gave its opinion on a specific case and became legislator, prosecutor and judge at the same time. In substance, I can imagine all these motives, but it is understate law. It should not be forgotten that a Member of Parliament who makes such motions could become the next minister, and that, with the help of the present legislative proposal, he should be allowed to judge in his own right and to deprive institutions of his rights if he is displeased. Suppose, for example, we get a GroenLinks minister, you shouldn't think about it, some people say that they have to judge a university with a rector who is, for example, a PVV supporter, where the minister in question thinks that this is quite undesirable. Do we want to go that way? The more severe the sanction and the closer it is to fundamental rights, the more important it is that checks-and-balances are reflected in a prior review. For the ex ante review, consideration has been given to the College of Human Rights. This is, in any case, a body with experience in balancing discrimination and fundamental rights. Of course, that raises questions about extending the jurisdiction of the College, so we need to look at that. If the Minister has another permanent college, so can we, if that fits better. The question on the table is what guarantees the Minister still intends to build in to ensure that the fundamental right balance is made correct and independent. What are the possibilities for scrutiny by the College of Human Rights, or what other college could be eligible for such review? Once again, these safeguards will be essential for our consideration. Without an independent test in advance, we cannot give the Minister such a far-reaching power. Those guarantees also mean that we can only accept a commitment from the Minister, which is in line with what has just been said, if she can guarantee that the commitment will be met. We very much wonder whether the Minister can provide that assurance and whether her successor can still ignore that commitment. It would also have to guarantee, in black and white, that the aforementioned Lower House motion is not carried out simply because it would have retroactive effect. I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on this. So the question is, very basically, whether the Minister is prepared to come up with a novella to adapt this law to the high constitutional requirements that this Chamber should impose on a sanctioning power that is so squandering with constitutional freedoms. We look forward to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. The short title of the present bill, the Law names and degrees, is as correct as it is misleading, as has already been mentioned. Indeed, the vast majority of the content relates to the legal protection of the names of universities and colleges of higher education and to the degrees awarded by them. My group has taken note of this with interest and appreciation. Our few minor concerns on this point have now been addressed satisfactorily by the Minister in the written exchange of views. Here I would just ask the Minister for one more thing: continuing attention to the side effects of this new regulation on the positioning of our colleges in an international environment in which, unlike the universities, naming is not unambiguous and can unintentionally create confusion. This should not be to the detriment of the international expansion of colleges. Would the Minister undertake to look again in a year or three to see if there have been any problems here? Much more time than in names and degrees, I and many other members of this Chamber have put into a subject that was hidden in a legislative amendment that in turn was hidden under the names and degrees, and that not only of funded, but also of unpaid institutions will be required to actively promote the sense of social responsibility of their students on the basis of this legislative amendment. Who could object to this? The venom, however, is in the tail. Suddenly it is added that this means at least that "institutions, including those representing them formally or informally, refrain from discriminatory behaviour and statements'. This one sentence, this one passage, these words may well be at the heart of this plenary debate. That is not because any serious political party would fundamentally disagree with that. But that is because immediately the question arises as to what this means in relation to that other fundamental right, freedom of education, and what the role of the minister of OCW should be in the monitoring of Article 1 of the Constitution, in addition to that of her colleagues in the Interior and Justice and, more fundamentally, in addition to that of the judiciary. In short, the Minister justifies her own role as a result of her responsibility for the system of higher education and for social confidence in that system; a role which, in her opinion, goes beyond the exclusive monitoring of the quality of training and the robustness of the education given. The Council of State disagreed. Education of a discriminatory nature must, of course, be able to be tackled, but this can already be done on sound grounds, the Council wrote. In addition, the Minister, like any citizen, is free to report it to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the event that she considers an educational institution to detect unjustified discrimination. The Minister wants to be able to go beyond that. This is already clear from the phrase just quoted, which speaks of discriminatory behaviour and statements by the institutions themselves. The formal and informal representatives mentioned in the same sentence could still be brought before the criminal court, but the institution as a whole would remain out of hand, as would be the case if one or more of its training courses were to be deaccredited. This is at the heart of this discussion. Is there any real significance to the notion of a discriminatory educational institution? And how should it be dealt with? I invite the Minister, in her reply, to describe as precisely as possible what discrimination should be seen within an educational institution in order to justify an intervention on her part in the role of system responsible. It is not, or certainly not alone, a question of discriminatory statements by individual teachers, she herself says with some emphasis, because then freedom of education could be at stake; that other fundamental right. It seems to be discriminatory statements by the formal or informal representatives of the institutions. Who are we supposed to think of in the latter category? I invite the Minister to acknowledge that she is actually concerned with much more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u116	Does Mr Rinnooy consider that it is possible at all to give a exhaustive list of situations or actions which should be considered discriminatory? That's what he asked me. That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u117	Will you give me two more sentences? Then I immediately answered this question, which is well-founded. As I have said, I invite the Minister to acknowledge that she is actually concerned with much more than that. This legislative proposal seems to take into account the possibility, as Mrs Martens suggested, that an educational institution in the sphere, method, style, tone and culture systematically infects students with discriminatory ideas that cannot be tolerated by Article 1 of the Constitution and which cannot be justified by the freedom of education, freedom of expression or religion. Such an educational institution and its precise definition, I put it as a challenge to the Minister, because it is inherently problematic. Such an educational institution would not belong in our system. Of course, my group agrees with that. Unfortunately, therefore, such a situation is not unimaginable and deserves political attention in my group's view, although honesty requires that it should be said that at present there seems to be a single example of it. But discriminatory indoctrination of young people is an unnegligible broader threat. My group is in principle prepared to support the Minister in her ambitions. However, a firm basis for such a serious accusation will not be an easy task. And the consequences of a ministerial intention to intervene are not minor. Even the prior warning could seriously damage the public image of the educational establishment, even though the administrative court would, by means of a provisional provision, suppress that intention. This places great demands on the diligence of the preparatory decision-making process. I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u118	I do not know whether I am right or whether Mr Rinnooy Kan is right, but I do not think that a provisional provision can be made after a warning, but only after a decision. The decision has therefore been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u119	Sure, but the execution will be suspended. I think that's quite right. The more the underlying constitutional complexity of the one disputed sentence in this legislative proposal becomes clear, the more my group regrets that this fundamental case has come to us through the strange back door of the names and degrees, through the also some artificial route of the sense of social responsibility. If we were concerned about the negative impact on our youth of a discriminatory educational institution, and that is what my group is doing, of course, not restricting those concerns to higher education institutions alone. The idea that primary or secondary education would be contaminated with it is at least as worrying. The Minister considers that the necessary educational task of citizenship formation and its neglect in the event of discrimination will give it room for intervention in other, often funded, educational institutions. But does it propose a similar step-by-step plan? Then, of course, the fundamental question of due care arises at that time elsewhere in education. And what about the situation that would arise after the withdrawal of recognition? According to the Minister, freedom of education implies the possibility for the educational institution to remain non-approved. But then young people can still be exposed to a poisonous thought, with all the consequences for their later social functioning. Doesn't the constitutional balance suddenly play anymore? Wouldn't the government suddenly consider an intervention option more desirable? And how would it happen? The proposed ministerial intervention option requires a complex balancing of fundamental rights. The Minister acknowledges this and I do not doubt her good intentions in this matter. My group is sensitive to its desire not to have to wait years for the criminal court to make an irrevocable decision towards potentially discriminatory institutional representatives or until the accreditation of one or more training courses has been reconsidered. My group has every confidence in the administrative process that may then follow. But with this law, in our view, a new chapter opens up in securing the first article of our Constitution. This includes a more careful anchoring at the beginning of the intervention process than the Minister, who is really going over the edge of the competences of her own department now offers in the form of an ad hoc advisory committee of experts. It is precisely the complexity of the consideration to be made here that justifies the involvement of an eminently established and equipped college, such as the Human Rights College, whose authoritative advice at the beginning of the journey would be difficult to ignore. Apparently, this is also a common construction under other legislation. This would imply an extension of that college's role in the direction of public enforcement, to be laid down in more detail in legislation. Well, that's how she is. Indeed, this expansion reflects the inevitable need for an active, democratically-wide fight against this new threat of public discrimination, with great commitment, but also with great care, to be conducted within education and possibly in other public domains as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u120	I have a question for Mr Rinnooy Kan. Suppose the Human Rights College is set up in such a way that it can give such a judgment, what would be the consequence of that? If the Human Rights College comes to a judgment, it will have no legal force whatsoever. This probably means that the Minister still has the power. That's one. Secondly, a school will undoubtedly object and appeal. Then we'll still be with the same judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u121	This advisory body would play the same role as is apparently played in other places, namely anchoring at the beginning of the intervention process which is thoughtful, distant, sound, authoritative and independent. I think that making this public, with perhaps the Minister's obligation to be able to depart from the opinion on a reasoned basis alone, would add a great deal of care where it stands, namely at the beginning of this intervention route. Of course there can still be a course of justice, because in the end any state intervention must be able to be judged by the judge in the democratic rule of law that we want to be. However, if rapid intervention is needed, it can take place. The Minister has a considerably greater influence on the activities of the advisory body than on the activities of the criminal court, as has been advocated elsewhere and earlier. If, despite this care, the Minister makes a proposal which is directly weighted and found to be too light by the administrative judge, it is still possible, by means of a provisional provision, to eliminate the harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u122	I have heard earlier in Mr Rinnooy Kan's speech that he realises that it will have a suspensive effect if there are objections and appeals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u123	Not automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u124	Excuse me, I didn't hear that remark, but let me finish my remark first. That suspensive effect means that you are in fact as far as when you go directly to the judge. Suppose the minister walks through a careful roadmap and goes to court. Then she is just as far away as when she asks for an extra opinion from the College of Human Rights, but that college has confirmed once again that her roadmap has gone through so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u125	I understand that this suspensive effect is not automatic, but can only take place if the administrative judge expressly authorises it, by making an interim provision. If there is a good basis for the ministerial intention to intervene, this means that it can be continued. That is exactly what my group would like to see done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u126	So you have an administrative test and no criminal test. You'll put it in the Human Rights College. If I understand correctly, there are a lot of hooks and eyes there that need to be solved first. Several ministries see major problems, as well as the college itself. Looking for Mr. Rinnooy Can't an extremely difficult road? The road through the criminal justice system is just as fast. This also requires a new law. So I hear Mr Rinnooy can implicitly argue for a novelle, like GroenLinks, if I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u127	I would like to leave it to the Minister to assess which legal route should be followed. When it comes to the actual effect of this route, I am confident that the College of Human Rights will be able to do it at a reasonable pace, yet carefully. In this sense, I have more confidence in the pace that can be achieved along this path than at the rate that can be achieved if we have to rely on the way in which the criminal court deals with these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u128	Is Mr Rinnooy, however, able to agree with me that the College of Human Rights is not legally capable of doing so at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u129	Sure, I agree with you. In my text, I also say that the College should be allowed to do so by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u130	I have two questions. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation. I share Mr Rinnooy's call for a change in the minister's competence, so that it is more secure how fundamental rights are weighed. Personally, I'm still thinking about the criminal justice officer. When should the college advise? Is that before the warning goes out or before the decision is made? I've already expressed my appreciation for finding a solution. That brings me to my second question. Is it not wiser to ask the Minister to strengthen her homework on this point and to come back with options for wise advice or judicial review prior to the decision? Why does Mr Rinnooy Kan himself come up with a solution and doesn't he let the Minister and all of her officials get on with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u131	One doesn't rule out the other. I'm very curious what the Minister will say. I would like to leave to her the judgment which will be a sensible follow-up. On the first point, I think it would be desirable for the opinion of the College of Human Rights to be drawn up prior to the warning, so that it can come out at the same time. Then it becomes clear what the impact of the opinion has been on the ministerial intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u132	The first point is quite clear to me. On the second point, I am very interested in the Minister's reply. In the second period, we will continue to discuss this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u133	If the route through the Human Rights College is not feasible for technical reasons, could another option, such as a heavy committee, ad hoc or permanent, be an acceptable solution for Mr Rinnooy? If not, why not? This is independent of the composition and all the questions I have already asked about it in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u134	I understand the question, but I would rather not take an advance on it. First of all, I would like to give the Minister a better idea of the feasibility of the most attractive option as far as I am concerned. In any case, the Human Rights College specialises in this matter. There is expertise and willingness to invest in international perspectives. This is precisely the heavy environment that I think is desirable in order to take account of the fundamental nature of the consideration to be made. Of course it is not unthinkable that it can be done in another way, but this route still has my strong preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mr Rinnooy Kan said in his reply to my interruption that he did not think this was the most attractive option. May I conclude from this that in his view there are several attractive options?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u136	I don't know anyone else right now. So I'm gonna limit myself to this. I'll wait with interest. Mr President, I shall conclude, if I am allowed to do so. I note that there appears to be a very fundamental balance behind the names and degrees. The phenomenon of the discriminatory educational institution is an unwelcome development that nobody was or is waiting for. The Minister makes it very simple, I think, quite frankly, it is almost too easy for an institution to evade its intervention, namely simply by disassociating itself from the alleged discriminatory statements made by one of its representatives. But if that does not happen, if the institution is provocative and obstructive, then there may be something real at stake that we should not shy away from. It's no different. I understand the caution I sense in the Minister's attitude, subject to my previous questions: we are entering a new and delicate area here. But this is an area that cannot remain undisputed. Let us hope that the discriminatory educational institution remains a high exception, but let us at the same time stress, through the care of a well-thought-out and well-prepared approach, the importance which this Chamber attaches to the rigorous enforcement of our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u137	These last words, but also the earlier ones, are taken from my heart. These are very important questions. It's about care. Mr Rinnooy Kan also attaches importance to an independent review. Shouldn't we take a little more time to come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u138	That really depends on the perspective that the Minister thinks he can offer us. We also attach great importance to security and stability in the future. However, we also see the need for speed. That's what makes this case so complicated. That haunts us from the start of this discussion. On the one hand there is care, on the other hand there is time pressure. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to make a proposal for finding the combination first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u139	We are indeed waiting for that proposal. It's about one institution. That's what we're really worried about. Does this justify urgent treatment, or should we, in such a state-of-the-art consideration, take due account of due diligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u140	I'm hoping an emergency treatment could be careful. At least I'm not giving up on that hope yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u141	If Mr Rinnooy Kan wants a guarantee that the Human Rights College or an ad hoc committee would, as far as we are concerned, be even better than the College or a Standing Committee on Human Rights, it will also require a legislative amendment. So it's gonna take time anyway. Even if it were limited to a commitment, it would also require a legislative amendment for the college. Then you might as well take the time for a novelle and at the same time shape any developments? I note that Mr Rinnooy Kan is now in a different position than in the round of questions. At the time, he had fundamental doubts about the Minister's view of the task, because what role does it have? On good grounds, these things are reserved for the court. As more legal expertise is needed, a criminal route is more logical, so the D66 group asked in the round of questions. Mr Rinnooy can now depart from that. I am interested to know what prompted him to want to pursue this point of principle now and not even to find a novelle necessary by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u142	That's just the question. The answer to the question simply seems to me to be this: in our written interaction with ministers and directors, we are all open to arguments and explanations. I asked for it and I got it. This has led me, more than when I asked my questions, to understand the Minister's desire to be able to initiate it. In this sense, there has been a development in thinking. I admit that immediately, and I'm not ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u143	Mr. Chairman. Education is crucial for the personal development of young people so that they can contribute to society. It is important to pay sufficient attention to personal and social emotional development and citizenship in education, in addition, of course, to knowledge transfer and cognitive development. This requires investing in excellent education for all through educational institutions that take their social role seriously and offer equal opportunities for all children and young people. It must be clear what they are offering and it is important that the quality of the educational institutions is well safeguarded and that the value of the diplomas they issue is undisputed. In my group's view, the legislative proposal we are discussing today, briefly referred to as 'protection names and degrees of higher education', contains important legislative changes to ensure the quality of education even better. Two elements are central to the proposed legislative amendments. On the one hand, these are articles of law aimed at legally anchoring those under which conditions which names and titles may be used in higher education and which degrees can be given under what conditions. The PvdA Group supports the importance of countering the deception of students and employers in our higher education through legal requirements, which is relatively open. On the other hand, there has already been a lot of exchange of views on this bill, which contains an extension of Article 1.3 (5) of the WHW. This extension is aimed at promoting the development of social responsibility among students by all higher education institutions, funded or non-feasible. It specifically states that those who represent the institution formally or informally should refrain from discriminatory statements. In order to enforce this article of law for non-cost institutions, it has been chosen to give the Minister of Education the possibility, as a final sanction, of depriving an institution of the possibility to grant WHW degrees after a careful procedure. For the non-cost institutions, there is no possibility of the financial sanctions which can be imposed on the funded higher education institutions. The PvdA Group thanked the government for the comprehensive answers it had given to the questions put by this Chamber and thanked the Minister for her willingness to discuss with the members of this Chamber the importance and content of this bill, and specifically on the procedure for sanctioning educational institutions if they persisted in discriminatory expressions. These answers and dialogue have clarified many of the questions raised by the PvdA Group on the legislative proposal. However, my group would like to discuss a number of points with the Minister. I'll start with the articles on naming and titles. The bill provides for strict requirements for organisations wishing to call themselves colleges or universities. It is striking that exceptions have been made in the legislative proposal for the folk universities, the folk colleges, the Evangelical College and the Free University. Since 1913 the Netherlands has had popular universities, which aim to contribute to the development of the total personality of its inhabitants, regardless of their origin, religious belief or political belief. This is done from the realization that the individual is inviolably connected to the whole of society. This task is still at the centre of the current 75 popular universities and the PvdA Group considers this to be of great importance. It helps to ensure that people, regardless of training or background, are given low-threshold opportunities to develop. Since the 1960s, the focus has been on cultural activities and accessible language courses for newcomers and people who are low-literate. This also applies to the folk schools that the Netherlands has known since the 1930s. Let there be no misunderstanding: the PvdA Group is committed to the popular universities and the popular colleges. It is nice to see that many volunteers there make their knowledge and insights available to others in vain. The government merely uses the fact that long-established names are the reason to make an exception for popular universities and colleges. However, my group is surprised that the government has chosen to do so, in a bill that has been tabled to provide full clarity on the names and degrees in higher education. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the impression, without having researched it themselves, that many young people have no idea what a popular university or high school is doing. Did the government even investigate this? Doesn't the choice made weaken exactly what the legislative proposal is about, namely total clarity about what level of education is part of the naming in our higher education system? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I also ask whether this choice does not pave the way for other organisations that want to use the name "university" or "high school" to give cachet to their educational offerings. How can that be prevented? The Bruins/Rog amendment (34412, No. 19), which was adopted in the Lower House, led to an exception being made for the Vrije Hogeschool and the Evangelische Hogeschool. They may retain their name even if they do not teach higher education. In this case too, the added value of the education offered to the PvdA is not under discussion. However, this also applies to the argument that the position of these colleges is perfectly clear for the 'target group'. If I drive through Zeist, I'll pass a location at the Free High School. There are large inviting banners hanging from the façade. Before I dealt with this bill, I was going to find out which graduation courses this college knew. Now I know better: you can only do an intermediate year. But whether this is clear for every young person who has to choose which college he or she goes to, is really the question. Unfortunately, in the view of the PvdA Group, these exceptions make the bill less forceful. There is a heavy responsibility at the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences and Vrije Hogeschool, but also at the Minister, to ensure that any uncertainty about the status of the education offered in these colleges is avoided. In doing so, the Minister places an important responsibility on the institutions themselves, and the PvdA Group welcomes that. The Minister states that the Education Inspectorate will monitor this and take action if necessary. What steps are to be taken in this case? These institutions cannot be deprived of the right to give degrees which they do not give, and the naming is now enshrined in the law. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the Rog amendment to item No. 8 The legislative proposal lays down what is to be understood by the title "Lector" in higher education. For naming it is difficult that in Dutch the term "lector" is also used for the person who takes care of the first and/or second readings during the liturgy prior to the gospel, and also for someone who reads manuscripts at a publishing house. It is unfortunate, and sometimes confusing, that no unique name has been chosen that can be reserved for people appointed within a university of applied sciences to take responsibility for practical research and to promote coherence between this research and education. If you look at the naming in English and the way in which higher education is organized in other countries, the distinction between a professor and a lecturer is much less acute. In its reply, the government states that it is up to the associations of colleges and universities to agree among themselves on the English-language naming of lecturers. Is it known to the Minister when clarity will be provided on this point? How is it ensured that all lecturers, colleges and others will use the proposed naming in English, now that no choice has been made in this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u144	Perhaps I can reassure Mrs Nooren a little bit as a former lecturer and also someone with some liturgical experience: I have never been confused. So I guess that confusion isn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u145	I also hope that the confusion is not too bad, but the point is that you want complete clarity and you now have a term that is used in more places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u146	Perhaps a traditional reassurance: in my opinion, the term "lector" refers to a history of about 30 years ago. Then a professor sometimes started as a lecturer to end up as a real professor. I find that connotation very attractive and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u147	I'm aware of that. I also know how the term "lector" is used, but with that my point remains unchanged. If you submit a bill to give total clarity about names and degrees, it is difficult that the term "professor" is more unique than the term "lector." This brings me to the second element that is central to this legislative proposal: the way in which institutions in higher education promote students' sense of social responsibility. The members of the PvdA Group are very much in favour of the government's scope for educational institutions to allow citizenship in higher education to take place in value communities where critical discussion and reflection take place, where understanding and tolerance are key values and every student, regardless of his background, can experience that he or she is fully part of these communities. This bill has restored that both funded and unpaid higher education institutions have this task and that there are instruments to intervene if institutions fail to fulfil this responsibility properly. The PvdA Group supports the importance of a legal regime which allows the Minister of Education in its system responsibility for higher education to intervene if an institution of higher education violates the obligation to promote the sense of social responsibility of students, such as in the case of hate speech and in the case of calls for discrimination. This includes the possibility to take away WHW degrees in extreme cases, if an educational institution fails to fulfil its legal obligation, and this also persists if it is repeatedly addressed by the minister. The distinction between this action and what should be understood as academic freedom is, in our view, adequately clarified in the legislative proposal and in the government's written response. It is important that a careful roadmap for decision-making has been established and that the decision of the Minister can be opposed by the relevant educational institution and appeal. We thank the Minister for her commitment to establish in a ministerial arrangement that in all cases that will arise, the Minister of Education is not only judging on the basis of advice from the officials of his own ministry, however expert they may be, but also on the basis of previous criminal judgments or rulings of the College of Human Rights, but also that an independent committee, with the necessary expertise, is involved in the assessment of the expressions and is asked for advice. In my group's view, there are roughly two variants: extending the remit of the Human Rights College or a separate ad hoc or structural committee. It is likely that the situation in which the Minister has to intervene will not occur very often. In our previous questions, therefore, we had put forward the option of allowing the Human Rights College to play that advisory role. The Government stated in its written reply that this is not possible, because the law before the Human Rights College provides for a limitation on who is competent to submit a request to this College, and that the government is not one of them. One option would be to amend this law and also give the government or specifically under this law the Minister of Education the power to ask the Human Rights College for an opinion. Has the Minister considered this option? If so, what does it not propose this option towards this Chamber? And if not, why not? The government is opting for an ad hoc committee. In addition to the written reply, would the Minister explain what steps it is going to take to form this committee if necessary? What composition is she thinking of? Does this commitment mean that Rule 1.3 (5) will not enter into force or be actively enforced until the establishment of the committee is included in the WHW? What time does the minister think he'll need to settle this? Is the Minister prepared to include this in a written commitment that we receive before the vote on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u148	Does Mrs Nooren see the risk in an ad hoc committee that the Minister can make up of people who are well-pleased with her or his vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u149	The PvdA Group certainly sees that risk. That is why we have asked how this composition takes place. How will this be secured? How will it proceed in procedural terms? This was hardly mentioned in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u150	Isn't that, by definition, something you don't want to make happen on an ad hoc committee? You want an independent review. The committee should not then be composed by the same minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u151	The answer to this question depends very much on the Minister's answers. It may be that the Minister will identify target groups which are part of a committee. The Court may then assess whether it considers that to be adequate in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u152	I have a question along the lines of this. It is also not excluded that the Minister proposes that the committee be set up by another body, for example an existing advisory committee. Would that respond to the concerns just expressed by Mrs Nooren?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u153	That would certainly be sufficient, but of course it depends on the content. Where's the college? What's it look like? In the written answer we read only about the intention, but little about the composition, the anchoring, the method, the speed and everything that goes with it. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u154	I have one last question. Mrs Nooren just mentioned the possible failure to enter into force of the relevant article pending the settlement of that ad hoc committee, that Standing Committee or any committee in a law or a ministerial decision or whatever. Is it necessary to postpone that article in the law if the Minister already agrees that she will involve such a committee at any time and ask for serious advice, and that she will regulate it as soon as possible? In that case it is unnecessary to postpone the article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u155	It will then have to be absolutely clear at what time that committee will be present and how it will work. So what is the legal guarantee of the committee's actions? It should not be a kind of voluntary committee for the Minister......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What guarantees do we, as a parliament, have in order to judge the committee's actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u156	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u157	If we agree on the composition, scope, scope and weight of the opinion, if we agree on the principle that the committee should be involved in any case in an advisory capacity, if we agree that this should be guaranteed by law as soon as possible, then we would no longer have any reason to postpone the relevant article in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u158	I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u159	Mrs Nooren actually gives a number of possible positions. She mentions different committees. She calls it the College of Human Rights. Whatever committee it becomes, it is not entirely clear to me what position it then gives to the Minister. When does that authority go into effect? Does the Minister always have to wait for the advice of all these committees before withdrawing recognition? Or should it do so first and then there will be suspensive effect? Does Mrs. Nooren have any ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u160	As far as the place of that committee in the procedure is concerned, the position of the PvdA is similar to that of D66, which is that place at the beginning of the procedure. The committee will therefore have to be set up and act before the Minister takes steps to act on the basis of discriminatory expressions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u161	In replying to the questions in writing, the Minister indicated that she wanted to make that quick judgment on her own, because she wanted to speed things up. However, Mrs Nooren is now suggesting a number of possibilities that will bring the momentum to bear. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u162	That is also why we are asking how much time the Minister thinks he needs to deal with this. This makes for the assessment of the attractiveness of the options it gives. I assume that the Minister has incorporated this article into the law for a reason and that she too will want to speed up the process of getting it done as quickly as possible, if this is the way to settle it with this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The bill Names and degrees of higher education helps to ensure that, within the binary system for higher education that we know in the Netherlands, and which we should be proud of, for everyone, students, employers and other stakeholders, clear and unambiguous rules on who may use which names and who may grant which degrees under what conditions. The amendment of Article 1.3 (5) has restored the ability of the Minister to give shape to his system responsibility for all higher education institutions. We have already talked about this: given the far-reaching consequences of the powers conferred on the Minister, it is important that this is done with the utmost care. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u163	President The bill we are discussing today has a noble purpose: to prevent students from choosing a further education which, contrary to what the shiny study leaflet or beautiful website promised, ultimately does not produce a recognised diploma or bul. The Group of the Christian Union shares the Minister's concern that such fraudulent action creates distressing situations for students and damages the good reputation of higher education. But on the means that this proposal for protection introduces and on the question of whether the intended objective is being achieved, my group is asking. The Council of State wrote a firm opinion, starting with the question of the usefulness of protecting the names "university" and "high school." How often have problems really arisen because an unaccredited institution uses the name of university or college? The report on which the Minister bases the protection of the names "university" and "high school" dates back to 2011. But wouldn't new research be able to discover any other concealing language by a new generation of swindlers? I am thinking of courses with in their name words like "academy," "academy," "college" or "instituut." I'm sure there's more to come up with. Isn't it therefore much more advisable to make the Central Register of Higher Education (CROHO) public-friendly and to make public awareness work? The Council of State rightly points out that recognized institutions can also offer non-approved training courses. It is precisely on this point that the Minister stresses the importance of good communication. What plans does she have in this respect? Why is communication the key to unrecognised training at recognised institutions, but is this not sufficient for non-approved institutions? Has the Minister tried to do that with all his might? Has it also investigated systems in countries where there is no protection of institutional names? The comparative study referred to by the Minister in the current documents was only aimed at neighbouring countries which did have some form of legal protection of the names. Nor does this address the Internet scam with international diplomas without any prior study or effort. Isn't that a bigger problem? How does the Minister know? I'd like an explanation. For the recognition of secondary establishments of institutions from outside the European Economic Area, the Minister writes that international rankings such as the Shanghai Index will be looked at. Only the world summit is recognized. But how does that work? What if someone starts a training course at a subsidiary of such an institution and at the start of the study the institution still occurs in the ranking and not at the end? And what if it's the other way around? How is the Minister going to maintain that? In 1880 Abraham Kuyper wrote at the foundation of the Vrije Universiteit about the purpose of the choice of name: "to be free from the state and free from the church, on the basis of the Reformed Principles land and people a blessing." Those are the words that ring the bell! Many families have been spared for maintaining the VU. In the meantime, the VU has been part of the recognized Dutch universities for decades and is no longer funded by the public. However, the foundation is characteristic of the Dutch system, which is an open system where the freedom of education allows for initiatives from society. The Group of the European People's Party is concerned that this bill, drafted with the best of intentions, is designed to combat fraud, at the same time restricting the freedom of education and the scope for new developments. A new Abraham Kuyper would still be difficult to establish, I think, partly because the Minister chooses to supplement Article 5a.10a Whw in the fifth paragraph as follows: "The accreditation body comes with an increased test of new training, for the initial training provided by a legal person who wants to provide accredited training. The method at least implies that this test is carried out on the basis of the complete curriculum of the course, to which the application relates, which training has been provided at least once recently in the Netherlands at the time of the application and to which students have graduated." The Minister argued that this was also common practice in the past. But if we look back a little further, before 2003, then that only applies to the presentation of a paper curriculum and not to the completion of the entire programme. Are there not unnecessary attitudes and students in uncertainty here? And isn't there an unnecessary brake on new training? After all, only very wealthy parties will be able to meet this requirement. Why was it not chosen to set up a good education and organisation plan as the starting point for accreditation and to follow education with NVAO and inspection during the education cycle? Isn't there much more tailor-made in this way and doesn't this offer much more security for institution, student and government that education is quality-wise? My group thinks that the complete cycle requirement is too rigid and fears that in practice it is an unnecessary restriction on the freedom of education. Is this requirement being evaluated? Are there any new small institutions without capital in the education system? Can this point become part of the evaluation? I would like a response from the Minister to our position and our question. At the moment, it seems that "free from the church" will succeed in a new foundation, but that "bound to the state and/or commerce" will be the other imperative. My group also has difficulty in supplementing the fact that the Minister can deprive himself of the right to training if the institutional board or those responsible for the day-to-day management of the institution or training behave or express themselves in a discriminatory manner. Much has already been exchanged in the written preparation and all the colleagues who spoke for me have expressed their concerns. For the Christian Union Group, the principle is that it should not be the minister who first of all decides whether a conduct or expression is discriminatory, but the judge. Let me be honest in the first term: for my group, this supplement to the bill is a dead end. The Minister is defending himself with a step-by-step plan. An institution shall first receive a warning and if it follows, no decision shall be taken to deprive the institution of its rights. That is friendly and sounds good, but a warning is not a decision within the meaning of the Awb and therefore there is no objection and appeal open. So if an institution does not agree with the Minister, it can prepare for a course of justice, but it has to wait for the decision. Subsequently, an application for interim measures may be made, with suspensory effect for the duration of the proceedings. If this is granted, the savings in time the Minister intended with the choice of the administrative regime rather than the criminal law are limited. If it is not granted, there is still a risk that the judge will reach a different judgment from the minister in a ground procedure. In the meantime, the institution will have lost its rights and probably its students. Moreover, the institution may have been unduly affected in its freedom of expression. By the Minister... The Council of State is crystal clear and harsh in its criticism; it is advised to refrain from this enlargement. Education is free in the Netherlands. In the case of legal measures, too, the public authorities must be cautious. The Council of State points out that the core of this restraint is that public intervention is justified only if this is necessary to ensure the soundness of education. If an extension of the possibility of sanctions is envisaged without prejudice to the quality of education, a constitutional limit shall be exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u164	I have a very enlightening question for Mrs Bikker. The Council of State states that a constitutional requirement, freedom of education, is exceeded if an extension of the possibility of sanctions is envisaged without prejudice to the quality of training. It is not the case that the Council of State believes that the Minister should be deprived of the power to dismiss institutions. The question therefore arises as to whether the quality of education is affected when an institution makes discriminatory statements. Does Mrs Bikker believe that in that case the quality of education is not affected? Is it possible at all that it will remain unaffected if that institution does so formally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u165	If there is a discriminatory statement, can it be that the quality of education is not affected? Do I understand the question that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u166	Yes. Isn't quality always affected when this happens, in the eyes of Mrs Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u167	Well, that depends on the context. You have to have the academic freedom to express things. I would think that it is almost always the case, but I do not want to throw the door completely into the lock because I cannot see all the examples. I think that with the instruments that we already have, and which I believe were also mentioned in your contribution, the solution is already there for many cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u168	It is therefore not the case that the Council of State advises against this change of law. The Council of State only says: if the quality of education is not at stake, you should not let the minister intervene. However, if we agree that almost always the quality of education is at stake if the institution makes flagrant and repeated statements as they have been done, then we also agree that we will not go against the opinion of the Council of State if we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u169	That depends. The question is: what do you do in the event that discriminatory statements do not affect the quality of education or are there discussions about it? It is still about a clash of fundamental rights in a situation that we cannot foresee. The Council of State says: be cautious. With me, the light goes on orange. I would like to take a closer look at whether the legislative proposal is indeed the right one, although we all have the same objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u170	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Bikker says that one time the inspection is on the agenda, namely if it does not exactly directly touch on education but, for example, on the adequacy requirements, and the other time the NVAO, when it comes to the content of education? So that distinction is there. And the Council of State takes a broader view than just on this point. It also believes that there are sufficient measures; the instruments are sufficient. In that sense, it is unnecessary, but also undesirable, because of interfering with the legal system, and disproportionate. Mr Bruijn says, but Mrs Bikker did not speak of it, that both do not go against the opinion of the Council of State. I don't know how Mrs Bikker feels about that. I'm actually curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u171	I think the Council of State would have been more lenient if it had not had the impression that we are going in the wrong direction. Let me sum it up like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u172	Does Mrs Bikker or does she not think that it might be desirable to deprive an institution of its recognition on the grounds of discriminatory behaviour? If so, how is the route to be followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u173	I can certainly imagine that there are institutions that behave so unjustly that we say: we do not want to see this in our educational system. That must have been established by the judge. There's my jumping point. I believe that if there is discrimination that goes so far as to say 'we do not want this education in our educational system', discrimination must be established by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u174	Should this be done in the opinion of Mrs Bikker by the criminal court or the administrative judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u175	The Council of State says that it should be possible through the criminal regime. Because the Minister has jumped to his own solution, we have never expanded in full depth or could do so via the criminal justice system alone. My concern is that we have jumped too quickly, too easily into the administrative regime, and I shall come back to that in a moment, which can also cause friction. Suppose we operate under administrative law and organise it in such a way as to deprive the rights of an institution while the criminal law case is still under way on the issue of discrimination. If that comes out of another judgment, we're all sitting here with our hands in the hair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u176	This means that Mrs Bikker accepts that the criminal procedure as a whole is awaited, including possible appeal, before the Minister is allowed to take his own initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u177	If I vote against the bill, it will be the result. However, I would ask the Minister to use her creativity and be supported by all of her officials. Of course, we have to think with each other if there are any other paths to go. Ultimately, however, it is a balance between care and speed for a very limited number of cases. For me, then, care, pain in the stomach, and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u178	I would like to conclude with the conversation Mrs Bikker had with Mr Bruijn. Does she agree with my group that quality is not determined by the subjective ideas that we have about it or by the political approval of it, but that they are determined by what is laid down in laws and regulations when it comes to the soundness and quality of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u179	Of course. I think that's a good thing, too. Every once in a while, education also has to itch. We should not want to determine quality together. I agree. I'll follow up, Mr. Chairman. The Council of State points out that the core of this restraint, which I have just spoken about for all the interruptions, is that government intervention is justified only if it is necessary to ensure the soundness of education. If an extension of the possibility of sanctions is envisaged without prejudice to the quality of education, a constitutional limit shall be exceeded. In my group's view, the proposed legislative text and the order of the Minister's roadmap are not in line with these principles. The denial of training rights is presented as an administrative sanction, but it is now punitive. In the Netherlands, it is not the Minister, but the Public Prosecutor's Office, who is responsible for prosecuting the call for unjustified discrimination, anywhere. And it's the judge who's judging. How many times has the Minister had to make a declaration in accordance with Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? And, as I have just said, what if the criminal justice process unexpectedly gives a different outcome than the administrative process advocated by the Minister? What solutions does the Minister provide? In its last letter on this subject, the Minister made the gesture to seek advice from independent experts before taking the decision. She pointed out that the Lower House was already informed by a warning. I'm sorry, but it doesn't reassure me. Such decisions should not be taken by politics, but should lie with the courts. By informing the House of Representatives I see the distance to the political domain, and thus the room for manoeuvre for the Minister to judge, other than the majority opinion, in the course of the process, only narrows. I can agree with the requests made by several parties to this section to take a closer look at this point and exercise caution. That's how I saved the hottest potato in this bill for the last time. To sum up, the Minister serves a noble purpose, but my group is critical of this bill. I wonder whether it really helps the student who risks graduating with a worthless piece of paper, whether it continues to give room for the creation of new institutions or new courses that are not so capital-intensive and, above all, whether it is not disproportionate in the legal limitation of Article 23 of the Constitution in granting a new power to the minister. But the day is not over and therefore I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u180	Mr. Chairman. Looks like it's gonna be a long night. On the part of this bill that guarantees the names and degrees of training, we quickly agree. It is a good thing that a title as a university or college should not be used anymore. In doing so, we guarantee the quality of the training that this title may carry. Unfortunately, that title is also quite often an English-language title as a university, and that may be a little less so as far as we are concerned. I know it is a very different discussion, but I would like to make this point. The pain lies in the other part of the law, which must regulate that the Minister should be given the power to stop financing training if she considers that the educational institution is not acting adequately against statements made by people who are associated with that school, such as a director. The previous speakers have already given numerous examples of the difficult area in which we are dealing. It also sometimes raises the question of whether we are not dealing here with occasional legislation. When we hear some examples of how this law might work, we all feel a bit uncomfortable. However, we all feel that when statements are made by formal or non-formal representatives of educational institutions that conflict with our constitutional values, we must be able to act against them or at least ensure that this does not happen with public funding. My group therefore understands this ultimate step, simply because education in the Netherlands has a great role as an example. In this example, discriminatory statements do not fit. At the end of the day this could mean that this training would lose public funding. We also see that there are currently too few tools to take action against these educational institutions. It is good that the Minister is looking for a solution to the situation. With the way in which my group has more difficulty. That has two reasons. First of all, we are once again seeing this cabinet skip a step in the exercise of a law, namely that of the judicial test. I realise that is precisely where the problem lies. When a person makes a discriminatory ruling, one can prosecute them, but that does not mean that one cannot yet force a school to take action against that person or withdraw from the judgments made. Nevertheless, it does not mean that we now have to adopt a legislative proposal in which this independent test is lacking. The second reason lies in the extension of this. If we leave the Minister to stop funding because of discriminatory statements, it will be close to randomness, because it will be left to the Minister's interpretation. This legal guarantee is of great importance to us. Without this legal guarantee, we cannot agree to this bill. To be honest, I am slightly disturbed by the fact that everyone here is taking advantage of each other to put forward their proposal on this subject. For example, the handling of this bill is becoming more and more similar to the way in which the Media Act has been dealt with. In my opinion, it's how or what not to us. We ask the Minister to ensure that an independent test is carried out and that this test is carried out by an entity with authority, legal quality and, above all, independence. And we're asking her to guarantee this legally. We are looking forward to the solution that the Minister has to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u181	Madam President. Tackling deception and ensuring the prestige of education, who can oppose it? No one, of course. It is therefore in itself fine that there should be clarity about the name university or college and about standards for the award of degrees and the conduct of titles. It is also understandable to look for appropriate sanctions in the event of a breach of these standards. And, of course, everyone wants the sense of social responsibility of students to be promoted. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to address some aspects of the SGP. Firstly, my group considers it logical that a university should only be called that when it comes to a university. The same applies, of course, to the predicate college. You don't need to have visited a university or college to understand and agree with that. However, there are a few exceptions which, in the opinion of the members of the SGP Group, are fair, because the Minister has made clear reasons for doing so. These are forms of education which are meant to be an intermediate layer, which have been in existence for some time and which provide for a social need, in particular the popular university of all over the country, the Free University of Zeist and the Evangelical University of Amersfoort. You could say that this is also a nice distribution of public and special education: a big good in the Netherlands. In the written preparation, the SGP Group asked the Minister how likely it was that there would be institutions that would in future invoke the criteria mentioned and then also claim the name of university or college, using unjustified unequal treatment. In the reply, the Minister indicated that it would not be possible to exempt the use of the name university and college because the bill does not provide for a system of exemptions or exemptions. I understand all that, but how does the Minister view a possible appeal to unequal treatment? My group also has a few questions on the issue of social responsibility. For funded institutions, this obligation has always remained. In fact, the situation for non-cost institutions is now being restored with an addition to the responsibility of directors. The question is, of course, what we mean by social responsibility. In my opinion, the interpretation of this broad concept is multi-interpretable. Society is constantly changing and, for example, is becoming more and more secular in my view at the moment. Is that the criterion? If social feelings shift, what does that mean for the sense of responsibility? The documents show that the government's focus is entirely on discrimination. Thus, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, it says: "Among the core values of our rule of law is the prohibition of discrimination contained in Article 1 of the Constitution, and the government believes that certain institutions that are part of our system of higher education can be expected to respect this prohibition." Well, that makes a lot of sense. But why only discrimination? Why only Article 1? Surely we are not from the school that believes that Article 1 of the Constitution is the most important article, because it concerns the first article of the Constitution? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that there is no order of precedence in the articles of the Constitution? The members of the SGP Group see the obligation to promote social responsibility in the broad context of the entire Constitution. In this context, the members of the SGP Group ask why the government has chosen to focus on discriminatory statements and behaviour, while the scope of the government's statements is explicitly broader. Glorifying the violent jihad is no less problematic than discriminatory statements and behavior? In short, there is a clear framework, the Constitution, and everyone has to abide by it. This applies to schools, businesses, institutions and individuals. They can and may function in our rule of law and they can and may make choices on the basis of faith or belief, but under the creed'subject to everyone's responsibility for the law'. I don't think this law will change that. What does change is that there are all kinds of consequences to everyone's responsibility for the law. If a director of an institution is out of line and he is supported by his fellow drivers, far-reaching measures can be taken. The educational institution may lose recognition by a decision of the Minister. This decision may fall after a roadmap has been assessed whether a person who represents the institution formally or informally makes statements that the institution can count on. The Minister shall assess this on the basis of case law and judgments of the College of Human Rights. If there is no link there, "the minister will interpret the legal standard in line with statements that are there." This could lead to the withdrawal of educational recognition, within the framework of responsibility for the system. This route would be necessary, because the route through the D.A.'s office, i.e. the normal course of justice, would take too long. However, according to the Government's reply to questions raised by the Council of State, that decision is open to opposition and appeal. Of course, that's what every educational institution involved is going to do. There goes the time savings and there goes the measure. In addition, does the Minister not interfere with normal legal procedures and how does she see this in the light of the separation of powers? The above mentioned roadmap may be useful in order to assess the case in question and then decide whether a judgment should be sought from the court. Surely such a step-by-step plan does not need to be regulated by law? In that case, it is a route through which the Minister decides to seek a judgment from the judge. Is this not a much safer route than the one proposed, where it is almost certain that objections and appeals will be made in all cases? Is this not also a much safer route than the proposed one, in the light of claims to be expected if the Minister turns out to have taken too heavy a measure? Resuming. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has serious doubts about the allocation of the power to withdraw recognition to the Minister. For the record, that doesn't say anything about this minister as a person. My group is concerned with the legal status of this competence. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u182	Do I understand that Mr Schalk is actually of the opinion that an educational institution guilty of discriminatory behaviour on this basis should not be able to lose its recognition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u183	Mr Rinnooy does not understand that very well. I think that an educational institution can lose that recognition, but not after there is a proper judgment, which is not just given by the minister of the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u184	Do I understand that Mr Schalk, like Mrs Bikker, prefers a complete criminal route to be completed before the Minister is allowed to take an initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u185	In fact, I can copy Mrs Bikker's answer. She indicated that she didn't know if she had to go through the criminal justice system. Administrative law might also be a route. At least that's how I understood her. If it's different, I'll refer to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u186	I am now going to speak with joy on behalf of Mrs Bikker, perhaps. I understand from her that she does agree that it should start criminally and come to a conclusion, including a possible appeal, that the minister can act and that an administrative appeal is then available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u187	I understand that Mr Rinnooy may point out that it can take an enormous amount of time at the time we enter that criminal route. I also understand that it is a deep desire that I belong not only to him, but actually to many people that there can be intervention. I am actually just as interested in the creativity surrounding this theme. The question is whether there are any routes that are faster than that very long, perhaps long-term, route through the criminal justice system. I also hope, however, that Mr Rinnooy Kan agrees with the SGP Group that judging the Minister is also a dangerous route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u188	Finally, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u189	Sure. We agree in that sense that we have argued here with other parties that there should be independent review. That is where we separate our ways, I think, but at least that is our answer to Mr Schalk's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u190	That would be an interesting extra debate. If we choose the route that Mr Rinnooy Kan has advocated, namely through the Human Rights College, and if it were to be adapted in such a way that the Minister or the Government could ask for an opinion there, it would still end in a judgment on a situation that has no legal force. You've been working on the Human Rights College for weeks or maybe months. I've dealt with that on a different route. That really doesn't reach a verdict within two or three weeks, because that goes very well. Then the Minister is still empty-handed, because she still has to go to court and it may take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u191	May I ask another question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u192	No, I'd rather not. I think we've pretty much chewed this out. Are you going to correct something that may not have just been highlighted, Mrs Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u193	Mr President, you predicted that quite correctly. I have indeed said that I prefer criminal law, but I have asked the Minister to give an insight into what accelerations are possible within it. I've missed it in the written papers so far. Before my option becomes the hour-day-month-year option: that was not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u194	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can fully support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. Students who successfully complete their education in higher education have a degree that they can be proud of and, better still, what they can do with. It's a high-value diploma. The aim of this bill is, among other things, to protect the conduct of names in education, such as college and university, and to provide degrees, such as bachelor and master, and to address the deception of unrecognised educational institutions that offer pre-recognized education. The PVV believes that this is a good thing. The explanatory memorandum states that the inspection regularly encounters new cases of misleading use of labels by higher education providers. Much has already been written and spoken of. However, the PVV still has some questions. In practice, how many students are disappointed in their expectations? To what extent does abuse of names and degrees or deception in higher education affect the value of a genuine diploma and/or the reputation of recognised educational institutions? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. In addition, this bill focuses on the sense of social responsibility. A lot has been said about that. How does the Minister define this? Article 1.3, fifth paragraph, of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act lays down an obligation for institutions to pay attention to personal development and to promote social responsibility. With this bill, the Minister wishes to add a sentence to this paragraph: "Promoting social responsibility means at least that the institutions, including those who represent them formally or informally, refrain from discriminatory behaviour and statements." It says "at least." Can the Minister give us any more examples of what might fall under this heading? What else could be at odds with this sense of responsibility? In other words, this legislative amendment creates the legal possibility to intervene if an institution or a representative of an institution behaves or does not act in a discriminatory way. A well-known example is, of course, the Islamic University of Rotterdam. The rector of this institution has repeatedly made discriminatory statements about Kurds, Jews, Armenians and homosexuals. He also said that the beating of women should be possible. You will understand that these are statements that are completely in line with Islam, but of course they are contrary to the sense of social responsibility, at least to promoting it. It is clear that education on an Islamic basis can never be in line with the principle of social responsibility when talking about gender inequality, heterosexual and gay and believers and unbelievers. That is, of course, the order of the day in Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u196	I have a question for you to understand. Does Mr Kops mean that, under this law, all Islamic institutions can be closed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u197	I do not mean that, but it is a very good idea from Mr Ganzevoort. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u198	If Mr Kops does not mean that, I say: I am trying to understand how he reads this law. If it is not in this law, then he cannot persevere with what he just said, namely that Islam is by definition contrary to social responsibility. If that were the case, the conclusion would be that this law applies to all Islamic schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u199	In fact, I notice that Mr Ganzevoort is always standing up in a debate, when I am sitting here, when it comes to Islam. Is that something personal about him? Could he please explain that to me? He only gets up when it comes to Islam. It's a little transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u200	You're working on a personal matter right now, and we're not doing that here. This is about the bill we're dealing with. You have to limit yourself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u201	Fine. I'd like to move on to the bill. With this bill, Mr Ganzevoort, the Minister will have the opportunity to intervene in discriminatory statements and/or behaviours. A motion tabled by my PVV colleague in the Lower House during the examination of this bill, in which the government is called upon to withdraw the accreditation of the Islamic University Rotterdam (IUR) in accordance with this law, has also been adopted. That's good. When does the Minister expect the doors of the IUR to be finally closed? We're looking forward to it. So the Minister wants to combat discrimination, which is what we make out of this law. The explanatory statement states: if an institution invokes discrimination based on, for example, sex, sexual orientation, race or political orientation, it infringes the fundamental right laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution. This is not acceptable to an institution which is part of the Dutch system of higher education. There is therefore also discrimination based on political orientation. Suppose the rector of the IUR, or any rector of any educational institution, had made similar discriminatory statements, for example about PVV voters, would the minister have intervened? I would like to present a case to the Minister in the context of this bill. Suppose there is a rector magnificus who believes that the current summit has failed to offer an alternative to populist parties. He also says that the Netherlands needs a new university elite more than ever. That elite has to take the Netherlands by hand just as in the past to solve problems. Why? To put a stop to the populism of Geert Wilders and the uncertainty that this calls for. After all, it is up to the university to arm the students, the upper layer of later, for the social debate against the populists. Suppose a Rector Magnificus says Wilders and the PVV must be stopped and the PVV voters, a group, put away as populists to be stopped and excluded. When the present legislative proposal comes into force, would it have an effect on this case or on a similar case? Would the Minister conclude that the expulsion of a political party and its voters is contrary to the sense of social responsibility, at least to its promotion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u202	This is the first time I have come to Mr Kops. It is precisely in this legislative proposal that there is a careful procedure, with a whole step-by-step plan, through which the Minister must reach a judgment, including in the case-law as pointed out by Mr Kops. Then it is precisely not in line with this bill to ask the Minister to make a statement in this case tonight? The Minister must examine this in the light of case law and the College of Human Rights, and she must also ask for advice here and there. The Minister cannot enter into talks with the said institution. Besides, it's a fictional case. I think it is precisely in line with the bill that the Minister does not make a ruling on this. I hope she's not gonna do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u203	This case is not entirely fictional, because it is true statements by Rector-magnaificus Kortmann of Radboud University. However, that aside: what is of course not fictitious is the example I just mentioned of the IUR. The Minister has already indicated that he intends to take action against this. In the Lower House, a motion was adopted to withdraw accreditation in line with the law as soon as the law was passed. So this case isn't that fictive. Suppose the statements made by the rector of the IUR had been about PVV voters, for example, so that there could possibly be discrimination on a political basis, what would the minister do? Would it therefore consider, as in the case of the IUR, that steps should be taken? That's the equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u204	I read the bill in such a way that, if necessary, the Minister would like to put the roadmap into effect. I do not read anywhere that the Minister has made a judgment or has already reached a decision on the institutions concerned. That's why I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u205	It's like I hear the minister talking here. I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u206	I welcome the example given by Mr Kops. In my own contribution I gave a similar example. I had put another one aside, namely the example in which a GroenLinks minister would find statements made by a PVV rector socially irresponsible. In all these cases, the question is how to ensure that you do not take steps on the basis of a one-sided political preference and the political opportunity of the moment. Does Mr Kops not think that this is a step too far in the light of these risks in this law? Does he consider that, on the basis of the legal guarantee, which he himself apparently considers so important in order to protect the PVV, this law needs quite a bit of adaptation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u207	The answer is no. For minister and politician have a certain responsibility for education. Where other parties would prefer to go to court at all events, we think it is a good sign if the minister and the politicians once take responsibility for education and its quality. I could ask another question: why do you want to bring in the judge everywhere? That sounds to me like shoving off the responsibility. If there is discrimination in an educational institution, it is precisely the minister's job to intervene. We see that as something positive, compared to just shoving it on a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u208	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u209	I didn't mention the judge at all in my contribution; I was talking about a college. That's just a correction. But the point remains, of course, that if Mr Kops thinks that the Minister should be able to intervene, he or she should also be able to intervene if he or she thinks for his or her mumbling reasons that a PVV rector or for my part a GroenLinks rector is socially irresponsible. If Mr Kops does not think so, the focus he wants now is a one-sided one for Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u210	A PVV rector or a GroenLinks rector, I didn't mention that. The statements I just quoted in the case, therefore, stem from Rector Magnificus Kortmann of Radboud University, you know, that terrible left-wing stronghold in Nijmegen. In the course of examining the legislative proposal for strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions in June last year, I also put forward these statements and asked the Minister for a response. But I'm afraid it didn't work out at the time. I also understand that it's sensitive. I would like to ask for a response again today. What the PVV finds is crystal clear: education is for knowledge transfer, there is no place for discrimination nor for political indoctrination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u211	The Minister needs a 20-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u212	I'll ask the spokesmen to take their place. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u213	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a bill that contains several elements. Several members have asked questions about the names, the position of the lecturer and so on. However, I would like to start with what has become the pièce de résistance of this bill today, namely the sense of social responsibility. I think we all agree that education is not just there to teach young people knowledge and skills to qualify for the labour market. Education is also there to prepare students for society in all its facets by promoting socialisation and personal formation. In the context of citizenship, I have often debated this with the House of Representatives in recent years. I'm going to debate it again tomorrow with the House of Representatives. In the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research, I indicated that higher education institutions, in my opinion, train the values of the future. They must deal with moral dilemmas in the future and they must indicate how we can shape society together. Higher education institutions therefore have an important responsibility. The people they train are going to contribute as citizens and as professionals to our rule of law, our democracy, our education and our next generation. This essential part of higher education should contribute to social education. As a minister, I am responsible for the system and for the fact that it contributes to the social formation of students. I would like to stress directly that my responsibility concerns the system and not the individual statements made by anyone. I do not have any responsibility for this, and I would never want to go into it. I do not want to express an opinion on the question of whether or not individual statements are admissible. It is my responsibility as a minister to ensure that the system is properly secured. We have established this system in the WHW and have for years been aware of the obligation for institutions to promote the social responsibility of students. This also applies to other parts of education, such as p.o. I would like to say to Mr Bruijn that it has been laid down in a different way, for example by means of key objectives which the inspection can monitor. The WHW is a general denominator, namely responsibility for students. That is not new, as I say to Mrs Martens, because it has always been in the law. Mrs Martens began her speech by saying that we are going to do something very new here, but that is only limited, because it is already in the law. As a result of a legislative amendment, this has been unintentionally abolished for non-cost institutions for a number of years. That was unintentional, and we're adjusting it now. Mr Bruijn asked for confirmation. We are indeed restoring an omission, so that non-costed institutions will be given this task again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u214	I suggest that the Minister should make a point here, so that Mrs Martens can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u215	That is exactly what I have mentioned in my contribution, namely that it is new for non-cost institutions. I have been puzzled for a moment about the Minister's remark that she is responsible for the system, and I fully agree with that; that is obvious, but she is not responsible for the assessment of statements. We are talking here about discriminatory statements by formal or informal representatives. The Minister felt that it was a question of balancing fundamental rights, so we could read it once again. Then she'll be judging on statements, won't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u216	I shall come back to that in detail later. I want to make this difference, because many asked whether it should preferably go through the courts. I will come back to that in detail too, but in the case of discrimination, a judge can only rule on an individual through criminal law. That's not what I'm talking about here. A criminal court may rule on an individual teacher or director and impose a fine, but that does not help the system as such. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u217	I get that. The bill states that the Minister wants to be able to intervene at the level of the institution on the basis of an individual statement. My group has no problem with these two separate things. Our group has no problem with the fact that a statement could be a ground for intervention. Our group also has no problem with the Minister taking responsibility for the system to deprive the institution of recognition. It's about what's in between. That's our problem. The Minister says she's going to judge it, at least that's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u218	This is the heart of the debate. I come back to this in a lot of variants and in a lot of different ways. That is precisely the question: when am I going to make a move in the system? I am talking about an institution, in this case an institution of higher education. A higher education institution can only demonstrate the sense of social responsibility or not, because that is what we are talking about here through statements by individuals. It's not about buildings or figures, it's about people. In this sense, we are talking about people who represent the institution formally or informally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u219	The essential question my party raised is: when does the judge come into the picture? The Minister could have made other choices in her bill. It could have been the administrative judge. I'm asking her to reflect on that choice. Why did it move to ministerial authority rather quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u220	I will come back to that in detail too, but the short answer is that a judge of administration can only correct me. Then I must have done something first and I have no ground to do anything right now. I'm telling you, I've been working on this file for four years. Almost all the spokesmen in the House of Representatives have repeatedly said to me: Minister, do what; act against an institution called 'institution', which has been mentioned here by name, which is flagrantly violating all our standards of social responsibility. I would very much like to explore all the alternatives. That's what I'm gonna do, but I've almost reached the bottom of the ingredient box. That is why I am asking for a balance to be struck at some point. Do we feel that we should take action against this, or do we find it so risky that we will end up with the current situation? Then I'm going back to the House of Representatives to say that I've looked at everything that's possible and what resources are available. Again, I am very willing to take your concerns into account as much as possible. I see very well, I shall come back to this in such a way that the essence of your objection, which I as a general divider formulate, is that my influence and power, or that of my successors, could be too great to allow subjective judgements to be taken into account in deciding whether an institution does not comply with its social responsibility. There are several ways to deal with that. Before I go into that, I will come back to the question of what is new about this proposal. It is not new that we should point out that uncosted institutions must also bear the sense of social responsibility, because that was already in the law. That's the only thing that's gone missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u221	I'll interrupt you for a moment for a question. You have said that you are going to discuss matters in detail, but we must take account of the order of things when interrupting. Go ahead, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u222	I think it is a little unfortunate that the Minister has expressed a cry of despair, namely that she has reached the bottom of her potential. I believe that this Chamber, after all its wills and its ways, and all its ifs and buts, thinks that the Minister is on the right track. We are only asking for more safeguards. I would find it regrettable if the Minister said at the start of the debate: I have tried that a thousand times and I think there are still few possibilities. That's what I hear in her words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u223	Mr Ganzevoort agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u224	I invite the Minister not to paint the picture that we want her to do something or that she does nothing. That's not the question. The question is how we can build in the guarantee so that the Minister can do what is necessary to do without going overboard with legal principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u225	This is followed by Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u226	That is also the approach of our group. We're willing to think with it. On the other hand, we must note that the Council of State has said that the Minister already has enough instruments to intervene. Should part of the law continue, the role of the inspection will be increased, as it will receive more points of reference for the non-costed institutions. That's what the Council of State says. All possibilities are exhausted, but in fact the Council of State says that the Minister already has enough. Can the Minister take that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u227	Thank you for the comments, in particular Mrs Gerkens. It was not my intention at all to express all this desperation now, but to point out that there is urgency as far as I am concerned. In the Lower House all parties present here have tabled or co-tabled motions on this matter and in any case supported it. I feel this general need to do something very broad across the board. I also understand the criticism. That's your room's job. That is why we have a good debate here. It is a question of whether this has been properly designed and how it can be done even better. I'm very inclined to think about that. I hear different sounds here. The suggestions I hear here about how to do so are not all consistent. So it was a bit ahead of schedule for the continuation of this debate. Back to the beginning. What is not new is that we are restoring an omission. Now the law only states a sense of social responsibility. That's pretty vague. That has been in it for quite some time and we have not had to use it before. By giving us more depth, I have found, also in the debate with the House of Representatives, that it is desirable to give more precision to this, also to make my freedom of action and that of my successors not so great that it can lead to too much subjective judgments. We have said, thinking and developing, that it is logical in itself to extend the scope of the article in question, Article 1.3 (5), not only to restore that omission, but also to give it a more detailed interpretation. Then there are more handles for the Lower House to check the minister, but also for a judge to check whether a minister intervenes on the right grounds. Then we come to the details, the discriminatory statements. They will also apply to funded education. In doing so, we are not creating a distinction between paid and unpaid, but rather a focus on what this sense of social responsibility should look like. That is a lesson we have learned from the past three years, in which we have been working on it. These are indeed institutions that infect students in the atmosphere, manner of working, tone and culture with discriminatory ideas that cannot be tolerated by Article 1 of the Constitution and cannot be justified by academic freedom, freedom of education, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked for that. I would like to emphasise, also to CDA, CU and SGP, that I do not wish to place Article 1 above those other fundamental rights in the order of precedence with this provision. You may know from me that the freedom of education is very close to my heart. Perhaps you have read that I recently embraced freedom of education for today at a conference at the Free University in 100 years' time. That's not what I'm here for. I consider these other fundamental rights, such as academic freedom, to be extremely important. However, I have been looking for a way to find a point of reference to address institutions to the problems we are seeing today. Then I must have a basis and then it is about the level of intervention at the institutions, not about the level of persons for whom criminal law is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u228	I need an explanation on this point. The choice of giving discrimination a place here, I find a bit one-sided in the light of the total, but I get it. The Minister is right to say that it is all about culture and content, and about all the things that are at stake in an institution and which are important for social responsibility, even when it comes to discrimination. Why then choose to operate only through the concept of "at least" because that is the only thing that is operationalised when a representative speaks formally or informally? Why then not say: it is much more obvious that it means at least that there is no discrimination in culture, content, teaching programme and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u229	Because Article 1, in my opinion, indicates that you do not want to remove groups and at the same time want to guarantee the freedom of education. When it comes to the content of education, you quickly come up with what is in a curriculum. I would not want to go into that, unless it is part of it, but it would also be confirmed by teachers and administrators who say, for example, that they want to put any group away as non-human. Then there is a problem, but now we have a title to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u230	This is a fairly coincidental answer. The Minister himself said that the core issue is all about culture and a number of other things that she mentioned. One thing is highlighted: the drivers. It is still much more logical to say that, as soon as you run into obvious examples, that was in any case the starting point of discriminatory behaviour or statements in that institution as a whole, you have a point of reference for the quality question, much more than when it comes to the statements of a driver elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u231	I'll get back to you on that. Then who's making these statements? That could be someone who represents the institution formally or informally. That can also be a teacher, if it is a flagrant violation of what we normally consider to be social responsibility, for example because a group, whether it be women or gays or Muslims or Christians or anyone else, is thrown away if not equal. In doing so, I need to join Article 1 or the principle of discrimination in order to bring an institution to order. I can't do that with Rule 23, I'm just gonna say it again. I'd like to make sure of that. I will come back to that as well. The whole roadmap also raises the question of whether this ruling should be allowed on the basis of other fundamental rights. If that is the case, the next step will no longer be taken, so I say briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u232	This is one of the fundamental elements of this debate: under what circumstances does the Minister intend to make use of her possibilities of intervention? I am glad that she is very much in favour of this. I myself suggested that it should be a sum of factors: the atmosphere, the style, the culture. I am particularly pleased with the Minister's recognition that lecturers' statements can also be avoided in that list. Rather, she seemed to want to explicitly exclude them as a basis for intervention, but now I hear her say that they can indeed figure out in that sum. Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u233	It's possible. At the same time, there is an enormous degree of academic freedom for teachers. That consideration needs to be made. The balance of these fundamental rights must be made throughout this process. That is why we have said that if a board does not distance itself from such a lecturer or does not act in any way against it, it could do so by entering into the debate itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u234	I'm hooking up on this. My group reads in the legal text that it is about institutions, including those who represent them formally or informally, abstain from discriminatory statements. This goes wider than just those who represent them formally or informally. This is all about any flagrant violation of the prohibition of discrimination that we are talking about here. This can also be done in writing and can also be done by a lecturer, but it must be sanctioned by the institution, because it is done on behalf of the institution. My group reads it in such a way that it is provided that it is not just about people, but that it can also be about components in the curriculum or about teachers, who are, by the way, also individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u235	Your question is whether you read this correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u236	My question is whether I see that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u237	Yes, Mr Bruijn reads that correctly. I was just trying to point that out, maybe in a different word. In the end, I am concerned about the institution, but it is people who make the institution and tell the stories. So they could be teachers, too. It must be a part of the institution. I have done so in this way because at the moment I have no basis to intervene in such a situation with a non-costed institution. In the case of the non-costed institution, the measure against the institution shall consist of the withdrawal of its recognition. Mrs Bikker asked if this is proportional. I think this is the case. It must, as several spokesmen have said, be a flagrant violation of social standards on social responsibility. This must be promoted at institutional level, or at least not contradicted. We will then withdraw the recognition of the institution. The institution will then no longer be able to operate within the system of higher education recognised by the government. I cannot prohibit an institution from teaching, but I can say that the institution is no longer authorised to operate within the Dutch system. In doing so, I can protect the interests of our system and of the students, who spend a lot of time, money and effort in their training. What does it mean if an institution is no longer part of the system? The consequences of this are far-reaching. The accreditation will expire. The institution's gonna have to shut down. Sitting students should be able to complete their education. The institution is no longer allowed to grant degrees, i.e. no diplomas, to new students. New students will no longer receive student funding. So you're actually saying that the institution in question doesn't fit in with what we all see as basic principles of the higher education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u238	Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that the trial is guaranteed for at least the current students? I am looking at all the introductions this afternoon, in which it was always about the period that would go on before the recognition was actually withdrawn. That could take a few years. Should that period be considered problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u239	This is going as fast as it can be carefully. I've heard several spokesmen say it has to be quick, but careful. The message it sends is that I say to an institution: we believe that you exceed the standards in such a way that you can no longer be part of the system because you do not take that responsibility. So we don't want new generations of students either. I heard Mr Rinnooy say that for years to come, we will be indoctrinating with texts that we all find widely unacceptable. At the same time, I don't want sitting students getting hurt. This is a starting point in higher education. We do this, for example, in the case of institutions or training courses which have to be closed because the inspection has found that the quality is far below the standards. Even then, sitting students must be able to complete their training. You can of course see if you can help them, for example by having them finish an education at another university or college. This is all possible, but it concerns the formal right of students who have started training once, in order to be able to complete that training successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u240	As the Minister argues, it is crystal clear. But this also means that you are going to be able to say, as a minister, that I am going to refer this to the judge because I still have a few years until the judge has made a decision. If that is announced, no student will start that training in the hope that he will get a degree later, because it is not certain that this is possible. In other words, this creates uncertainty that takes a little longer than when the Minister immediately takes the recognition out. That actually divides the time pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u241	That is why I have begun to say that I cannot ask or force an institution through the courts to stop granting degrees as an institution. I can only do that through the criminal court to get a ruling on an individual, but not on the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u242	A large part of this afternoon's speeches were about the fact that at the moment when the criminal court said that the Minister is right in her intention to withdraw recognition, the Minister who can actually withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u243	A board judge can do that, but before that, I have to make a decision. Right now, I can't make that decision. This law is intended to give me the opportunity to make such a decision and then to have me corrected by an administrative judge if he has good arguments for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u244	But it all starts with the question of when there is discrimination. This is done by an expression of an individual. I say that the judge has to establish this, but the Minister says that we have discussed this. It places a certain heading on top of the legislative proposal, which speaks of discriminatory statements, but speaks of flagrant discrimination. What is the difference between flagrant discrimination and discrimination under the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u245	That is systematic discrimination and not once an expression. Again, it is a question of whether or not the institution contradicts or takes action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u246	If someone makes a terrible statement once and doesn't contradict the institution, is that flagrant or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u247	Then it's covered by another component. That was one of the questions. In any case, it is covered by discrimination. In the Lower House we discussed this very extensively. It may also be humiliating, inflammatory texts that may be uttered once, but which are so serious I am thinking of calling for a holocaust, a jihad or whatever, that they are in themselves a reason to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u248	Let me be clear that I would also like to reject the statements that have been discussed in the House of Representatives. It's not about that. It is a question of when we find that there is discrimination or a disgusting statement that the Minister says she has to intervene. I still find the explanation of that fluid, while the judge doesn't check it out in advance. That's where my concern lies. Does the Minister himself consider that the framework on which it has to judge whether an expression is discriminatory or flagrant violation is entirely clear or will it develop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u249	That will develop. I'll get back to you on that. I am trying to get even closer to the concerns and to see what solutions there are to counter the displeasure that I feel here widely, namely whether the Minister is not given too much power to make subjective judgments. One of the reasons for referring to discrimination was not to make it too big. This raises many questions here, but my answer is that this is not a part of putting Article 1 above the other fundamental rights. That always has to be weighed. That's why I made a step-by-step plan. I will go into possible ways of giving more hands and feet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u250	The debate has taken place and my question is no longer directly in line with it. My question concerns what the Minister said earlier about denying the recognition of competence. That is exactly what is meant by this law, and that is also a good power. I don't know exactly how the minister said it anymore, but she said something like, "I'm not gonna close that, 'cause I can't. This is in fact in line with the last question in my input on the titles that can be held if you have completed a foreign education. It is not inconceivable that we should deprive a university which we believe is not in line with our ideas and which we believe is even dangerous for our society, of the recognition of degrees which apply in the Netherlands. But that is without prejudice to the fact that if the Emirates are going to fund that institution and grant them the degrees of the Emirates, the same titles, doctor and PhD, can be held here. But perhaps the Minister will come back to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u251	I'll come back to all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u252	I suggest that we give the Minister a chance to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u253	In any event, however, that institution does not have the protection of an institution recognised within the Dutch system. This institution may have trained students elsewhere who perform the doctor's title and can then put Dr. here for their name, but at least they have not been able to train students here with study funding. In any case, they have never been able to obtain accreditation from the NVAO. There is, of course, an important difference. Mrs Martens asked whether this would also apply to funded universities, such as Groningen or Nijmegen. Yeah, that's the same thing. It applies to all funded and unpaid institutions. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether or not a theological programme should refuse female students. No, that is not allowed, but that has nothing to do with the issue of social responsibility, but above all with the accessibility of higher education. From that accessibility requirement, it is not allowed to do so now either. How do we implement this obligation now? Let me stress, as I say to Mr Schalk, that I think it is of the utmost importance that institutions have a great deal of freedom throughout education, including in higher education, in the way in which they shape the mission of social responsibility. So it's not like I'm trying to get everyone through the same mold. It is up to them whether they deal with this in a religious or secular way. I have already said that I can only look at where people really cross borders. The context must be taken into account. That is why there is not an easy judgment; there is no list to be made that we can tick off, such as: this is allowed and that is not allowed. For example, it depends on the location. Mrs Martens also asked about this: fundamental rights, the number of expressions and their intensity. I have just given the example that one expression can be so serious that you say: it is only one, but this is so completely unacceptable that we have to act here. The starting point is that the institution will no longer be able to give credibility to the mission of social responsibility. It is also bad for the whole system of higher education if such an institution would simply remain recognized by the government and from that position can continue to make discriminatory statements. Mr Schalk also asked whether the role of the judge would be not only easier but also safer. I do not think this is the case, because it is not possible to take effective action through the courts. And those procedures can also take years. If I act, the board judge can intervene. It's gonna take time, too. But that's the trias politician, and I accept it, just like all of you. There's always some delay in that. The question is how we can ensure that we get a handle to do something, understanding the role of the judge. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked what informal representatives of institutions are. That's what it's been about for a while. They are at least the members of the board, but they can also be informal representatives, for example a spokesperson for an institution that does so on behalf of a board. They could be teachers. But not just a random statement by any lecturer, but structuralally and as part of the curriculum, and also not corrected by the board. Then it could be a teacher. Mrs Mertens had a question about the private sphere. That depends, too. For example, if you make statements via Twitter or Facebook from private accounts, that is a different story than when you do it via the social media or the internet of your institution. It's all part of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u254	The Minister speaks of Mrs Mertens, but he means Martens. This is for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u255	Sorry, Mrs. Martens, indeed. So it matters by whom, in what intensity and from what location: the institution or private. Then Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Martens asked what exactly will happen if there is discrimination and how that can lead to an intervention on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u256	I understand from what the Minister has just said that an objectification, when there is a flagrant violation or discrimination, is not really a matter because there are so many factors involved. If this objectivation is not possible, how does it prevent subjectivation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u257	I always try to do this objectification as well as possible, by pointing out that discrimination must always be seen in the context of other fundamental rights and that this context must be taken into account. That is, of course, a complex balance and it also requires extremely careful consideration. That is why I understand the concern and I understand the question of whether all this has been handled carefully enough and how I ensure that even though I have very good officials I or my successor do not have too much of a stamp on it. I'll get to that later. Can it be with external scrutiny, precisely in order to weigh that context properly? In the step-by-step plan that I discussed in the House of Representatives, I also indicated this. Is there discrimination? Is this discrimination justified because it relates to freedom of education, academic freedom? If the answer to that is "yes," the end is story. Then we don't move on to the next step. However, this calls for a reasonable balance. The question of the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA was whether I'm going to sit on the judge's seat too much. I do not think this is the case, because institutions have the option of appealing against the Minister's decision through the administrative courts. In this way, the judge can reverse tests and decisions if necessary. That also fits in with the separation of powers. But again, I do need a way to take a first step of my own. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Martens also asked whether the remedies should be used before I withdraw the recognition of an institution and whether I see a role for myself to report. I think I need a judgment before we can get to court at all. If we let it depend on the judge alone, we'll get an individual ruling on an individual person. If we wanted to try that way, there would be a lot more time left than when the administrative judge could correct me. In the meantime, there is a reasonable chance that many cohorts of students at the institution concerned will receive education that will be in contact with the relevant statements and culture at the institutions. I find that very undesirable, and I really want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u258	Therefore, if the Minister intends to give a warning, she has found for herself that there is discrimination. If she's aware of the discrimination, I'd find it odd if there were no charges. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u259	You mean I have to report it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u260	I didn't think of that myself, but that was a suggestion from the Council of State. That's what triggered me. I wonder how you'll deal with it when you know how to make a discriminatory statement. The minister says she responds to institution level if the institution does not contact the individual person. In doing so, the statement by that individual remains unpunished, unless the prosecution deploys its own monopoly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u261	So I would have to report myself and make myself totally dependent on the judicial procedure. I will go into the case of the Islamic University of Rotterdam in a moment, but we have already seen that the D.A. has filed a declaration there. Then I can't live up to my system responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u262	My group understands it as follows. If the criminal court judge a case, it will examine it against an infringement of the prohibition of discrimination, as laid down by law. The question then is whether something criminal has been done and whether a sentence should be handed out. To see if there has been a violation of the duty to convey the awareness of social responsibility to students is, of course, a completely different touchstone. You can imagine all kinds of ways in which the law is being acted in violation of the duty to convey the awareness of social responsibility without being violated in the eyes of the criminal court, in the sense that one also deserves punishment. My group would therefore find it very undesirable if the criminal court were to be involved in the question of whether an educational institution is acting contrary to the duty to teach the awareness of social responsibility. My group would not go along with that. A judge of administration is another matter, but it can only do something if the minister takes a decision first. So the criminal isn't in Frage at all. The question of whether the quality of education is disadvantaged is indeed very fluid, but we have the Minister for that. Does the Minister, like my group, see that the criminal court has a completely different touchstone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u263	I agree. The problem is that the criminal court may be able to help me pass a sentence on to a citizen, but not to someone representing an institution. Mrs Martens suggested, among other things, that there should be a verdict from the criminal court at first instance before we proceed. However, if a case is submitted to the criminal court for assessment, a route precedes it. There's a report to be made. It must then be forwarded by the police to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A. has to make the decision to prosecute. Only then will the case be dealt with by the criminal court. There are therefore many times in which one cannot act, or can make the choice not to think it is important enough. Apart from the time it takes, there are a lot of times when the whole process can end. If it were to come to that, we still only have a case in which a statement is made about a person and not about the institution. In Mrs Martens' reasoning, I have a point of reference to deal with this. However, I find that very complicated. So I really have to ask the criminal court to make a ruling, because otherwise I can't go on. In my opinion, I am threatening the trias politician very much, because I will tell the judge that he has to do it and ask him if he can please hurry up, because otherwise I can't do anything. I find that really contradictory, however well I understand the reasoning behind Mrs Martens' contribution. I think it's undesirable to walk that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u264	It was about the time span. The point was that it would take too long. However, I cannot imagine that the Minister is going to judge things very quickly. It will also have to investigate and follow a procedure. It will also take time if the Minister wishes to convene another ad hoc committee. Maybe that's okay. It's not necessarily bad. After four years, however, I can imagine the Minister getting impatient. If there had been a report, it might have been a step further. Another thing is that it continues to be about the assessment of a person's statements. So the criminal court or the minister, one of them, is about that. On this basis, the Minister can seize the institution. It's the same thing, isn't it? In both cases, it is an opinion on a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u265	Then I'm gonna have to deal with a lot of insecurities. The police have to take it to the D.A.'s office. Is that what the police do? Is the DA gonna dismiss or not? Then I'm gonna have to wait for a verdict, and when I get that verdict, I'm gonna have a verdict on a person. Then I still have to consider whether it is sufficient to call the institution to order. I find that contrary to administrative law and the responsibility I have as a minister for the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u266	But then I come to Mr Ganzevoort's point. Suppose all the traffic lights are on red, at the DA's office, the NVAO, with everything and everyone, but the minister does want to do something, then she has to arrange it so that she can do something, even if everyone has the traffic light on red. Doesn't that mean something to you? Isn't that right with the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u267	I don't think so. In recent years, we have come to the conclusion, also by looking into the case mentioned above, that we do not really have a way of acting against, as Mr Rinnooy Kan so nicely said, a discriminatory school. We are very used to talking about discrimination and discrimination in legislation, but we are not talking about the responsibility I have for a school and in this case for a higher education institution. We have found that at least there is an omission in the law. Then the question remains how to handle this in the best way possible. Mr Bruijn, Mr Rinnooy Kan and I believe Mrs Martens have also asked about the broad approach to this issue. It is not just about education, it can also play in other system discussions. The cabinet has already taken a number of steps. There is a National Action Programme against Discrimination, with a coherent approach in cooperation with many departments. Investment is being made in the fight against discrimination among involved partners. However, this too is mainly about the individual level or about awareness. How, for example, can you ensure that schools or civil society organisations handle traineeships consciously? For example, the KNVB has the slogan in collaboration with SZW: Football belongs to everyone, put a line through discrimination. However, this is not a way of calling a discriminatory school into order. The case of the IUR, the Islamic University of Rotterdam, has begun the discussion. We saw that there were no possibilities there. Before I go into the roadmap and the possible solutions, it might be good to tell you what we have tried and done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u268	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u269	I will be brief, but I would like to say now that I appreciate the Minister's recognition that what we are experiencing here with a discriminatory educational institution is part of a larger whole. I do not want to complicate the matter further, but I find it interesting to hear from the Minister how she proposes to act when other educational institutions than higher education institutions engage in discriminatory behaviour. Unfortunately, we cannot rule that out either. It is also not difficult to go wider in the direction of other institutions where this can occur. I am satisfied with the Minister's promise that she will return to it at another time, perhaps also on behalf of the cabinet, because it is wider than her department alone. I would like her to acknowledge that this broadening is actually part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u270	I'd be happy to give it to you, because I recognize that broadening. I also think it would be good if I discussed it with colleagues. A few years ago, we had long discussions about the public interest and how we should deal with it. This was, among other things, in connection with cases in education such as Amarantis. We said that we need to learn a lot more from what we do to each other, because sometimes we are used to making our own sector laws. So I would be happy to discuss this with my colleagues in the cabinet. A number of years ago, the WRR analysed the public interest in the context of market forces, independence, privatisation and standards and values. I think it can be useful to develop such an analysis on this subject as well, because this theme will not just go away in the years to come. So I would like to say that I am going to talk to my colleagues about this in order to find out what is the best way to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u271	Thank you for that, because I think many will be interested in that. Then there's one point left that I might have to address now. What happens if an educational institution loses its recognition? In fact, if I may put it this way, there is still a question of 'poisoning ideas' which is spread to young people. What's the cabinet gonna do? There is still a problem, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u272	That's what I thought I was gonna do. At least you make it much harder for an institution to keep operating. Such an institution can no longer allow students because it can no longer give degrees to new students. The students can no longer get study funding. That is what you are saying: we cannot prohibit this, but at least it no longer fits into the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u273	Finally, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u274	I heard the Minister say that, but she said so herself, just when freedom of education was at stake, that freedom of education dictates that a non-recognized and non-expensive educational institution can go on. I would say that what is happening there is still harmful, because, albeit unrecognized and non-costful, young people are still infected with ideas that we consider harmful. So I fear that the government is not rid of its responsibility by withdrawing recognition and funding alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u275	No, not in a formal sense, so I'd like to take that question with me, but let's also see how likely that is. The consequences are great for an institution that no longer has recognition. It is very difficult for such an institution to continue to function in this way. So it can also be a theoretical issue in some sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u276	May I have a moment with the members and the minister to discuss how we're going to proceed tonight? The plan is to suspend at 7 p.m. before dinner break, slowly the smells of dinner come up and then continue at 8.15 p.m. I note that the Minister has not finished her speech at 7 p.m., but can she work with this intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u277	If you ask me like that, I'd like to make another proposal. In any case, I would like to outline a few options in general from the points of view that we can go on. I'd like to try to do that really staccato in general. Then we can talk about it after dinner break, but then I might be able to give the members something to chew on during dinner break with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u278	In view of this, may I ask colleagues to limit the interruptions a little? Or maybe they can even give up on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u279	I will go very briefly to the Islamic University of Rotterdam. This discussion has been going on since 2013. I have tried to act in several ways. The inspection has spoken to the IUR Supervisory Board. It was then agreed that the rector would no longer make statements that would cause social commotion. In the end, the institution did not comply with this. At the request of the Chamber, who said I had to do more, I looked into whether we could do it through the accreditation. The IUR courses were accredited by the NVAO. However, the NVAO can only do something at level level and therefore did not go any further. There are people who have reported it. I did not do that myself, as I say to Mrs Bikker, but others did. All these reports have been dropped. I then had conversations myself, until June 2015. No, sorry, let me finish what happened before. We checked to see if we could make administrative arrangements with the IUR, along with the inspection and the NVAO. There would be an investigation into openness towards those who think differently in the pluralistic society. However, in September 2016, the IUR indicated that it no longer wanted to participate in the investigation. As I said, I myself had a number of discussions with the Supervisory Board. I have indicated that my confidence has been really damaged, because agreements have not always been met, nor have the agreements with the inspection. At that time I told the IUR that, because everything I had tried so far was exhausted, I had no option but to make a legislative proposal. I tried to do that through the roadmap. I shall pass on that for a moment, because the Chamber itself has already made that very clear. The first step is the assessment of the expressions. The second step is an answer to the question of whether the expression is covered by the academic freedom of a fundamental right, such as freedom of education, freedom of religion and so on. If so, then no further action is needed; if no, we will proceed with step three. I think the biggest discussion is now on the first two steps. The third step is an answer to the question of whether it can be attributed to the institution. The fourth step is the warning to the institution. I think the discussion is now about how I can come to a careful warning. I have already indicated that I do not think the route through criminal law is desirable. We could take the discriminatory behaviours and statements out of the law; then we would go all the way back to a sense of social responsibility alone. I could, but I'd have to change the law. The problem is that the vague definition of social responsibility will not bring us much further. The Members of the House on the other side will then immediately ask me what is the framework of standards with which I am going to test. It may seem to be a solution, but it does not seem to me to be feasible at the end of the day. I do not think that this will help to establish a careful procedure. I have already said that I repeat that the reference to Article 1, the prohibition of discrimination, is not intended to place the article above other fundamental rights, but to create a handle for careful scrutiny. Members Rinnooy Kan and Ganzevoort have proposed to seek a solution through the College of Human Rights. This is a sympathetic approach, partly because the College is an eminently authoritative body in the field of discrimination and has a lot of experience in the making of considerations on this issue. I have looked closely at that, but considering everything, I see the necessary hooks and eyes on this option. They are both fundamental and more factual in nature. I have also discussed this well with my colleagues from BZK and V and J and with the College of Human Rights. What's the problem now? The College of Human Rights has two main tasks. One task is to advise the government in general policy, with emphasis on general policy, and legislation; the other is to judge an individual case. It's settled by law. Advice is about whether planned policies or regulations are contrary to the principle of equal treatment. For example, the College may issue an opinion on a request by a minister to examine whether a bill has a direct or indirect impact on the protection of human rights. So that's general, about a legislative or policy idea. The other task, the judgment, is about an individual case, about individuals who appeal to the college with the question of whether an unlawful distinction is or is made in a specific case. The problem is that we have an intermediate variant here, because it is about advising the government in individual cases and thus advising on the implementation of policies. And that makes it diffuse and complicated for the College of Human Rights to act as an advisor. The legislator has previously indicated that the College of Human Rights does not wish to be mixed into roles. My colleagues from V and J and from BZK, as well as the college itself, believe that, given the potential role mix, this advisory role in terms of social responsibility should not be given to the college either. It must be avoided that the College is in a very difficult position. Let's say I'm gonna ask for some advice for the execution. Then there could be a confluence of rollers. It may be that the lecture is requested simultaneously by the minister and by a student or lecturer of an institution who thinks he is discriminated against. If I ask for advice on a ruling, the College may consider it to be a matter of discrimination. So the college's gonna support me. But with that the individual case of a student does not need to be supported by the college. After all, in that particular individual case, considering the context, the college may have good reasons not to feel bound by the earlier ruling. That brings me to one final alternative: an advisory committee. In the round of questions, I have already addressed it. Such a committee could help with step 1 and step 2, where the substantive assessment takes place. That would be less with me and my department, but more would be placed outside. A consultative committee would then be set up to give a serious opinion. I say to Mrs Martens that this committee cannot easily be ignored. What I would do, then, is to involve an advisory committee which is independent and which must weigh fundamental rights and the relationship with other rights. It is my suggestion that this should be a standing committee, because that means that I can give less of my personal preferences a place in it. Under the General Administrative Law Act, I am bound to follow the advice of such a committee. I can only deviate from an opinion if I can justify why that is necessary. If I can't justify it properly, the judge will soon punish it. An institution that thinks that I did not do well can still go to court, in this case to the administrative court. What's a commission like that supposed to look like? Mrs. Nooren asked for that. The questions raised here must be a committee which not only has knowledge of the existing standards of discrimination, but also of academic freedom, freedom of education and other fundamental rights. I'm thinking of three members. One member should have knowledge of equal treatment and human rights. One member must have knowledge of education law, including freedom of education. And one of the members must have experience as a judge. One could think of at least one former member of the College of Human Rights, who then sits on the committee in a personal capacity. As far as expertise and independence are concerned, I could make a statement that the members of the committee must meet the requirements for the appointment of a judicial officer. That means I can't make political appointments. For example, it is also a requirement for the members of the College of Appeal for the Examinations and the College of Appeal for Higher Education. Therefore, if it becomes a standing committee for which I can lay down a number of things by ministerial decision, then my successors are also bound to seek the advice of this independent and expert advisory committee. To record all this, I could also indicate that I'm linking it to a bill. I will send the form of the ministerial decision to both chambers. Several Members have expressly asked for this. This means that the advisory committee has an even stronger basis. I know that some Members are afraid that such a ministerial arrangement will be reversed by a successor in order to lay it down by law. There are still two laws in the Lower House. If Members find this sufficient, I am prepared to consider whether I can make a note of amendment to one of those laws. I am thinking of the law on associate degrees. The procedure for this must begin. As far as I know, it's not a controversial law. Everyone would like to arrange that degree of association. In that law, I could include the legal hook to include it in the WHW, as Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Nooren asked. A successor is bound to it. How long is this gonna take? Mr Bruijn and Mrs Nooren asked. I cannot force it, but I can ask for an effort to be made to deal with it as quickly as possible. I can ask such an independent advisory committee to do it within a certain time limit, but quality also goes above speed, of course. If I did it like this, I hope this part of the law gets the approval of the Chamber. That would mean that we can continue to implement it. Institutions that violate the social standard can then be tackled. I would add that it means that I can also make more work on a motion from the House of Representatives which asks me to deal immediately with the Islamic University, once this law has been passed. I dissuaded that motion, because this would mean that I would have to do something with retroactive effect. I don't think that's reasonable. I would add that the motion has been broadly signed, including by political groups such as the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP. So I would like to try as much as possible to operate in the spirit of the motion. I am referring not only to this motion, but also to all the motions that have already been tabled by the House of Representatives. After the suspension, I'll come back to all the other parts. I would add that there are parts that are not extremely world-shattering, but which are relevant to the implementation of the policy. I would find it very, very undesirable for many reasons to stop the whole bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u280	Mrs Martens, I see that you wish to interrupt, but this seems to me a natural point to interrupt the Minister's reply for a dinner break. If there are any questions about what the Minister has just said, they can be asked after the suspension. Afterwards, the Minister will be able to raise the remaining issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u281	Mr. Chairman. Before the evening break, I went into the most important part of the bill, the sense of social responsibility in higher education. I would now like to try briefly to answer the questions on the other issues in the legislative proposal. I will begin with the question of naming. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked me whether I would like to make a commitment to examine in a number of years, for example three years, whether there have been problems with the positioning of colleges. I'd be happy to admit this. I would then like to take that study together with a commitment that I made to the Upper House during the examination of the Quality in Diversity Bill. This involves carrying out an evaluation of the communication on the introduction of the degrees "of Science" and "of Arts" in higher vocational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u282	I promise I won't intervene much, but let me get this straight. I asked for an assessment of the international impact. Colleges are located in an international environment that is sloppyly structured, with confusing naming in all countries. The only thing we want to avoid with each other is that these new rules will ultimately be at the expense of international expansion. I asked for particular attention to be paid to this. If, in a year or three, the Minister wants to see whether those concerns have been realized or, hopefully, have not been realised, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u283	I admit that, with an emphasis on the international environment. That is what this is about, because our binary system is not recognised in the same way everywhere. Then it is important to see if we are on the right track. So that is broader, hence my reference to the Quality in Diversity Bill. Then we can take it with us in one go. Mrs Nooren had a question about popular universities and folk colleges. Are these names sufficiently recognizable and are they well-established concepts? We have not investigated this, but we do know that these institutions have existed for so long that you can expect them to have a great reputation. The popular universities have existed since 1913 and the folk colleges since 1931. They don't expect degrees. These institutions should, for example through their website, communicate clearly about their educational offerings. Mrs Nooren gave the example that she thought: if I'm in Zeist, I'll stop by sometime. I think that every incoming student will immediately discover that it is an intermediate year and not an institution where you can obtain a degree. That should be sufficiently clear. That is why I am not so afraid, as I say to Mrs Nooren, that we are opening the door to other organisations, which want to use the name 'university' or 'high school' to give cachet to their educational offerings. This bill does not open the door to that. It simply cannot be done; the legislative proposal clearly defines which organisations can call themselves that. Mrs Nooren already referred to an amendment by Mr Rog of the CDA to make an exception for these institutions (34412, No. 13). I understood the background but also said that there are no new exemptions or exemptions. What we now have are historically grown rights. Mrs Nooren and Mr Schalk asked whether the exception is now an objective of the law and how I look at a possible appeal to equal treatment. We have discussed in great detail in the House of Representatives the principle line on the one hand and the pragmatic line on the other. One could say that the exceptions for the Evangelical College and the Free University find the middle between the principle and pragmatic line, because these institutions have known and are known for such a long time. You can therefore expect everyone to know what you are and not offered there. I say to Mr Schalk that the inclusion of this exception is part of the pragmatic line and that there is therefore no other institution that can benefit from an exception. In this sense, the consequences are very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u284	The Minister writes in her answer to a question from us that the Education Inspectorate is monitoring it. Since the name of the institution is enshrined in the law, I wonder what measures can be taken if it turns out to be different at the Free University of Applied Sciences or the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences. Then what is the role of the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u285	If the inspection receives signals that this particular position is being abused, it will investigate those signals. For example, it is a question of wrongly granting degrees or incorrect recruitment material. Of course, that cannot be the intention. In this case, the same framework applies to this institution as to other institutions, namely that an intervention ladder will then be created. The institution is reminded of the offence and if it does not do anything about it, there is the possibility of an administrative fine. If these institutions do not use the freedom they have been given, they can be brought to order by the inspection. In the context of naming, Mrs Bikker asked about the CROHO. Of course, the CROHO includes any accredited training with relevant information. It is important for students, employers and others that this information is clearly visible. I acknowledge that improvement is possible there, even when it comes to study choice123.nl. That discussion has been included and is well accessible, but I agree with Mrs Bikker that the public friendliness of the Croho can be improved. So I take this to heart. However, I would point out that this will require time and commitment from the Education Implementation Service. However, I would like to take Mrs Bikker's request to heart to see how we can improve public friendliness. However, I must warn you that all kinds of system adjustments may take some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u286	I am a patient person, but I do like to know at what point, after all that patience, the Minister thinks he has it nicely in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u287	Perhaps Mrs Bikker will allow me to answer this question at the end of the first answer. I'm just looking at my officials who can answer this better than I can right now. Then you would have an unsubstantiated answer. As far as naming is concerned, no further questions have been asked. I'm here to talk about graduation. Mrs Martens asked how I see the risk of inflation of titles if there is no effective brake on carrying out an incomparable foreign degree in terms of level, for example PhD. The aim of this legislative proposal with regard to the granting of degrees is mainly to prevent deception. That is why I demand that an institution state the degree to which training is linked and the accreditation scheme on which this degree is based. This concerns the NVAO or a foreign scheme. I also deal with the draft law that criminalising the performance of a title without being entitled to do so. In my view, this is a better way of guaranteeing the acquisition and performance of titles than is currently the case. That is also very important to tackle diploma-mills, institutions that say: come here, you don't have to do much but you will get a diploma. However, it is an illusion to expect that there will never be any messing-up after all. I'm just saying a bit of domesticity with incomparable foreign degrees. For this we have the EP-Nuffic institution, which, as people, has obtained a degree abroad, looking at how it relates to the Dutch degrees. This is a very topical issue, with migrants, but also with asylum seekers. So I think we've secured it well. When I go to international conferences where I sometimes am and compare how we and other countries do it, we do it not bad at all. But, of course, we must always stay very focused on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u288	It seems very difficult. Our degrees are protected, and this bill will strengthen that. That's very good. This bill also regulates that if foreign universities in the Netherlands offer courses with foreign degrees, the naming of those foreign degrees applies. There's a logic to that, too. At the same time, it may be that a doctorate in Uganda has a very different value than a doctorate here. The question was whether you should almost say: I'm a doctor in Uganda, or Kampala. I can imagine it's hard to legally regulate that, but that was actually the concern. Of course, you can never prevent mess, but is there another line in what you hope people will do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u289	We have, of course, started the Bologna agreements internationally in order to equalize the Bachelor Master. It took a lot of work in the Netherlands to convert the PhD title, which I myself had, into a bachelor master. And that still doesn't make us quite there. I'm talking to the House of Representatives about the position of masters. We actually want a real choice between master's programmes. That means you don't have to have a self-evident flow master, so if you've had a particular bachelor, you don't always pass to the same master. Well, that leads to new problems, for example in case we're dealing with selection. So there are all problems that arise. We need to see how we come about there by means of legislation or mutual agreements. For the specific problem of comparability of diplomas, I refer to EP-Nuffic. I also say that, for example, university diplomas obtained by people in other countries appear to be equivalent in our country to MBO-4. That also says something about our MBO. In any case, it must always be assessed at individual level, because that is not about countries but about institutions, and sometimes also about training. Mrs Nooren asked about the lecturer: is it known to me that universities and colleges of applied sciences need to clarify the English translations? She also asked whether I would like to ensure that that name is used properly. The bill contains no rules on the use of the translations of lecturer, no more than there are rules on the title of professor. It is reasonable for a professor and a lecturer to present himself abroad in such a way that the distinction in orientation between the two professions/officers is clear. This is in line with the binary system, the distinction between university and college, and its English translation. In English, however, a clear distinction is not always made between the professor and the lecturer. However, a distinction is made between, for example, a full professor and an associate professor. The latter assumes that someone is related to a regular professor. That does not rule out the fact that universities and colleges of applied sciences come to a different agreement, and I have put this down with them, which does justice to the distinction in orientation. The initiative lies with the institutions. I don't prescribe the settings. By the way, I also say to Mrs Nooren that the bill does not seek to ban the name 'lector' in the liturgy or in the gospel or as a name for the author of manuscripts at a publishing house. That, too, is an historically growing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u290	The latter I hear with perhaps visible relief. But let's get to the first thing. I'd like to get this straight. I don't know the origin of the lecturer. In my opinion, "professor" is not a protected title in the Netherlands. In principle, therefore, anyone could feed them. Magicians like to do that at times. I'm just saying, it happens. "High teacher" is probably protected. Abroad, the title "associated professor" is usually used in a university environment, a kind of "pre-tenure track" designation which, if it is up to the person concerned, is converted into a regular professorship as soon as possible. So that parallel doesn't quite go on. I do therefore foresee potential problems in some of our lecturers who wish to present themselves internationally. Earlier I asked how a study in a year or three worked in practice. I would like to assume that the Minister will take this aspect with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u291	I think that's a good suggestion. In general, it has to do with the binary system that works well with us, which I am also really proud of, which I wouldn't want to get rid of, precisely because I think they both have to be judged on their own merits and have something to offer from their own position. It must, of course, be recognizable for the rest of the world. I therefore undertake to include this part in the evaluation already promised in the naming. Finally, Mrs Bikker's question on the complete cycle requirement: is it really necessary? I have also discussed this extensively in the House of Representatives. Among other things, we have been asked: does this not hinder the openness of our system? On the one hand, you want new institutions to be able to join, on the other hand, we have a balanced coherence of institutions in higher education in the Netherlands. If you completely open that up, it could threaten the existing institutions and, above all, the quality of the institutions. That's what this is all about. I think it is very important that the quality of institutions in higher education, old or new, should prevail. I also believe that the training of such an organisation must have proven itself in all aspects of quality assurance before I give the authority to grant legal degrees. With that authority, such an organisation becomes a non-costed higher education institution and is therefore part of our order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u292	I understand the Minister's saying, "I stand for quality." At the same time, the people I spoke to could not remember any examples of cases where it had gone wrong in the period before 2002/2003, when this was not yet the case. The Minister is looking for security, but this clearly restricts access to the order. You've got to be a little capital-powered to keep it up. We are not going to get out of that tonight, and it is not the main theme of the discussion, but I would ask the Minister to look at access to the order in the evaluation. Who else is joining? Are these only the existing institutions with new training, are it only the capitalists or is it still possible for new institutions to join? It may happen that in those five years no one has a plan, but we'll see about that. We then keep in touch with each other with the question of whether our system remains open to new initiatives. My concern is that we really shut it down right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u293	I'd be happy to look into that. Moreover, I do not think that openness is an end in itself. I think that a widely accessible system, which takes account of important principles such as freedom of education, is very important. The system should remain open to this, but not unlimited. The accession of many institutions can be at the expense of quality. I would add that once an institution is in the system, it is very difficult to tackle and remove it. I have an example of a situation where I have unfortunately lost a lot of time in recent years: the EuroPort Business School. He had training of very poor quality. It took three years for accreditation to be withdrawn, while there were many reasons, based on quality, to do so. It was an institution that asked for a lot of resources from students. We were just talking about institutions that do not pay attention to social responsibility. I was horrified by this; I have had my eyes closed since I, as a minister, was unable to put an end to an institution that was short-sighted of all standards of quality. That is why I think this is very important. Prevention is better than having to deal with it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u294	But prevention must not lead to the creation of a new institution. I think it is part of the freedom of education that new institutions have the opportunity to join. This does not alter the fact that existing institutions may also fail. Inholland is also an example that we can mention. Let us not pretend that it is just newcomers and let us ensure that the innovation, which has brought our education system to a fantastic level, does not shatter. I'm glad the Minister's agreed to take a look at that. She says: openness is not an end in itself. I say, however, that it is a prerequisite for the freedom of education to be freer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u295	Yes, but then I say again: there is more than just freedom of education. Innovation, adapting to time, is not only about freedom of education in the sense of philosophy, but also about adaptation to new technological developments and wishes of students and employers. I dare say that there is no country in the world that has such a high level of density in higher education institutions. I am not afraid that we need this openness to maintain the quality of our higher education, because that is really something to write home about. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u296	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u297	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers and the compact addressing of the main concern. There's been a lot of discussion. We are broadly satisfied with the Minister's answers to all our individual questions. In this second term, I would like to confine myself to what the Minister called the pièce de résistance, namely the concern in the Chamber that a minister might be able to judge fairly subjectively what discrimination is and how much it weighs in relation to other fundamental rights. We have noted with great appreciation the Minister's response to our concerns. It has made a very creative proposal which our group can understand. If I understand correctly, she will first consult an independent expert advisory committee on step one and two. That committee will issue a major opinion, the Minister will only be able to distance himself from it on a reasoned basis. It is a standing committee with three members: an expert in the field of equal treatment, one in the field of education law and one with experience as a judge. It wants to link the existence of the committee to a legislative proposal and thus give the committee a legal hook, a legal anchor. That is what she wants to work out in a ministerial arrangement. This legal anchoring then comes through a letter of amendment, as we understand, to a law which will soon or already be discussed in the House of Representatives, so that it can be implemented quickly. The Minister is prepared to confirm all this in the precise wordings in a letter to the Supreme Court. If the ministerial arrangement becomes final, it will be submitted to the Chambers. If I confine myself to this subject, which was the most serious issue, and if I have understood correctly, perhaps the Minister would like to reconfirm this later, I am prepared to present it with a positive opinion to our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u298	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. My group very much appreciates the commitment to look at the wider context and to discuss it with the cabinet. Perhaps the Minister could also take into account how this is regulated by other laws. I said something about it in a previous interruption. If we look more broadly at how discrimination is dealt with, it might also be possible to see if there are places where repair is still to be done, along the lines that we will eventually reach each other today. That's more of a question. The Standing Committee can certainly count on my group's support. My group was reluctant. We have confidence in the parliamentary system in itself. We have confidence in the checks-and-balances that are in there. We are not in favour of adding extra layers to it. So we hope that the Minister will keep that committee as small as possible. Three's already up to speed. I was curious to see exactly how the committee is put together, whether it is rotating and whether there is a maximum term of office. Maybe it's too early to say anything about it right now, but it's important to know. We have asked what legal title the committee will operate under. I understand the Minister's going to link the committee to another legislative amendment. We look forward to that and hope that it will be properly arranged. What is important is how the powers are regulated there. It is probably up to a next minister to decide to what extent that opinion is binding. It is not quite clear to my group whether the Minister means that the amendment of Article 1.3, paragraph 5, will be postponed. Since you can only postpone the whole of the article, the objection is that as long as that amendment is postponed, the extension to the unpaid part of the system will also be postponed. You can not only postpone the insertion of that second line, but not the change in the first line. These two different aspects play a role in this. Maybe the Minister can say something about it. My group hopes that the postponement will be superfluous. In any case, it will support it if the Minister does not postpone it. If that delay is a condition for the Minister, then we can go along with it, but it is not our preference. I would have liked to have discussed with the Minister the sustainability of legislation and the system in the context of digitisation of higher education. For the sake of time I have timed that; I hope that is a disappointment for some here. But I admit that I will return to that question when we discuss the draft law on internationalisation that we are about to discuss. The importance the Minister attaches to the binary system is also attached to the titles. A professor is ultimately someone who has had a promising career. The difference between a lecturer and a professor is, of course, that in the end a professor is someone who, unlike a lecturer, when he sees a solution somewhere still wonders: yes, that works in practice, but does it work in theory? We look forward to the Minister's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u299	Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse the words of previous speakers in the direction of the Minister for the way in which she has wanted to translate our concern into a constructive and creative proposal. I am very pleased to recall this debate. I have found it a privilege to participate as a member of this Chamber. We've done a job here with each other for which we're kind of meant, at least in my opinion. It is all the more striking to me that the House of Representatives has hardly paid any attention to this one aspect, which has swallowed up our full time, while, on closer inspection, we found a fairly fundamental issue hidden beneath the names and degrees. In my opinion, we have given this a very appropriate follow-up with indulgence and creativity that can only be appreciated. As far as I am concerned, that is a very nice conclusion to this evening and a conclusion to the debate. I look forward to the sequel. I believe that we have succeeded in helping the procedure, which is so fundamental and which has suffered from the tension between tempo and due diligence, to a better follow-up. I hope that will lead to the result that the Minister wishes. I would like to remind the Minister of her commitment to broadening this debate towards the rest of the public sector and, in particular, the rest of education. As serious and worrying as we think that a discriminatory educational institution has become a fact of life in higher education, we would be so concerned if it were to expand further, and perhaps even more concerned if it were to become a reality here and there in primary and secondary education. I would ask her, of course, first of all, through the inspection, to keep a close eye on whether this is happening and, if so, where. Secondly, I would ask her to anticipate this by considering how the procedure we have developed with each other could be transformed into a similar procedure in that part of education where children and young people could suffer much more damage than at a somewhat later age. So that's important. In fact, this has also provided the basis for a method that can also be relevant for other public institutions, for example hospitals, at some point, however much we may regret it. It would be a good idea not to be surprised and to take up the time we have now to think about how to deal with it and how to prepare for it. I hope the Minister will take part in this. I also look forward to that debate in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the Minister for her clear, comprehensive and very motivated answers. In my group's view, it has sufficiently argued that it wants to fulfil its system responsibilities and that, in terms of promoting the sense of social responsibility of all higher education institutions, it does not have enough on the way through criminal law, so that it needs more. She has convinced me and my group that the path we have taken to the College of Human Rights is not a desirable and feasible option. This concludes that setting up an independent Standing Committee is the best solution to make a good judgement on procedural and substantive matters and to give a serious and binding opinion to the Minister. Like Mrs Martens, my group would appreciate the Minister's commitment to the design, composition and working methods of the committee and, as Mr Bruijn said, to confirm its legal anchoring in a letter to the Chamber for the vote that we have, if it is right, on 7 March. My group's question was as to whether or not Article 15 (3) should enter into force in line with the question put by Mr Bruijn. Does it enter into force or does it not enter into force? It seems to me that the entry into force of the article in part would be strange, because then I think you fall back on the current article. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this or her proposal in this regard. I also ask her to submit the draft ministerial regulation here if there is one. I would also like to thank the Minister for explaining the position of lecturers and her commitment in response to a question from Mr Rinnooy Kan to place in the evaluation the position of the lecturers alongside the rest of the use of names and degrees in education. Like Mr Bruijn and Mr Rinnooy Kan, I welcome the fact that the Minister has promised that it will be looked at more widely in education and even in all institutions that carry out a private or wider public task, with social responsibility and whether or not to deal with discriminatory expressions in relation to other fundamental rights. My group welcomes the suggestion made by the Minister that the WRR should play a role in this. I will give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal. We are convinced that it contributes to the quality of the already good binary higher education in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u301	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I think that in the first period I have explained quite clearly why my group is concerned about the new space that the Minister is getting. The Minister himself decides whether there is discrimination and then follows an administrative route. I have seen the Minister do a gesture which, in my view, is the most appropriate means of checking whether there is discrimination, namely the appointment of a committee of advice. My group does have difficulty with the role of the Minister. After all, it will be the same minister who has the responsibility for the appointment of such a committee, so that is something that continues to wring. If I understood her correctly, what she just said comes in a letter with a legal hook. It is one of the options she mentioned, but she can at least present it with a legal hook. I would encourage that. Moreover, if I understand correctly, the Minister can only deviate from the advice given by the committee concerned. Well, that seems to me in the choice we have tonight the best possible improvement of the proposal. Then, of course, the consideration is what you do with the proposal as a whole. We'll keep it in the air for a while. We have also talked about the problem in broad terms, which Mr Rinnooy Kan also spoke about: if we ban it now, it may be diving underground and hatred still spreads. I don't mind talking about real problems with the spread of hate, but I want to be careful to put elementary schools or whatever else in a suspect's corner where that's not necessary. Let's talk about the real problems. I think we can all point out some of the broines. I would also like to encourage the Minister to do so, and not to do all kinds of extensive fine exercises. Focus on where the problems really are, I'd like to say. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to the CROHO I would advise anyone who is only now engaged to look back on the debate, because then they will all discover what it means to improve. I'll hear from her when she's gonna do that. I really disagree with the Minister about the complete cycle. I think we're getting a status quo with the current design of the bill and that it's going to hinder renewal, except for commercial institutions. I urge her to keep a finger on the wrist in that area. Having said that, I await the Minister's response to exactly what she is going to put in that letter. I can say that I will advise my group more constructively on this legislative proposal than it had initially suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u302	Then this debate has been useful for something, hasn't it? Then I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u303	Mr. Chairman. This debate has certainly been useful for something. I can actually fully agree with what Mr Rinnooy Kan said. I am also pleased to have prepared this debate and see exactly what the Upper House is now for. It is a legislative proposal on which we all agreed in general, but we also agreed that there should be a little more guarantee. I thank the Minister for her generous commitment on this point. I think she's really been looking for a way to fix this with us. I also look forward to her putting this in writing for us, so that we can read it properly again. I believe that my group will be positive and will support the proposals that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u304	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for the careful way in which we have responded to all our concerns on this day. I'd better get right on to today's concern. This is particularly important when I look back at the documents, because of the Minister's desire to keep pace. I still have reservations about this, because the withdrawal of recognition will always be a longer period than we might wish. That's just because the Minister has indicated that she doesn't want to get rid of students. This means that it could take a number of years before recognition is actually gone. The Minister has made it very clear that an advisory committee should be set up. The conditions have already been repeated by several of my colleagues. If that committee has done its job and the Minister comes to withdraw recognition, I honestly expect that almost always objections and appeals will be made. The Minister has already indicated that she will put this in a letter. I think it is important that this letter is available in good time before we vote. Perhaps the Minister could agree that the letter also sets out the main lines of action she sees, but also the routes to be provided if there is an objection or appeal. I'm asking for a timetable. To sum up, I am very curious about that letter, which my group will study very carefully in order to arrive at a balanced judgment. I was present at the commemoration at the VU of 100 years article 23. There I have heard the Minister in full in favour of Article 23, for now and for the future. I was pleased that she confirmed this today, pointing out that she does not see a ranking of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u305	The Minister is able and willing to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u306	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Martens, Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Nooren asked questions about the independent committee. I would be happy to send a letter to the Chamber about what that committee is going to look like. Of course, I do that before the votes. Furthermore, I am willing to send the ministerial arrangement to both chambers, but I am still struggling with the following. At the end of my first term, I said that I would be prepared to put this into a ministerial arrangement. Furthermore, if that helps to create broad support here, I am also prepared to legally ensure this by means of a letter of amendment. But I do not do that because I want to do so very much, because I do so because I hope that it will give me a broad support here. I have heard the Christian Union groups and the SGP say: we will then take stock of the situation. Look, if it doesn't help, I won't, because I'm not waiting for it personally. I actually want to make progress as soon as possible. But at the same time, I realize that this is a discussion that affects the heart of this Chamber, to which I wish to do justice. I am prepared to take steps to this end. It would be blackmail if I asked those Members to agree, but I would have liked to have said so. I'm gonna put that in a letter. It is quite uncertain: there will be elections in the Lower House, so there will be a new Lower House of which I do not know what she will do with my legislative proposals. I hope that this new House of Representatives is going to deal with them, and I think that the associate degree is not at all so conflicting and that everyone wants it to be. But I hope that the Chamber will take that into account in its final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u307	It is not for nothing that I have said quite diplomatically that I thought it was an extreme gesture of the Minister to make that hook. I would like to point out that I appreciate her efforts. My comments on the constructive attitude of my group can therefore be seen by the Minister in that light. It is true that this leaves something hanging over the market, because I indicated very firmly in the first term, after consultation with my group, which are our objections. But I see this step and I find it meaningful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u308	In conclusion, perhaps it would be helpful if the Minister-in-Office of the Council were to discuss that part of the law relating to this would not enter into force just outside the scope of the meeting, rather than after the new amendment had been adopted. I forgot to mention that in my second term. Mr Ganzevoort asked very strongly about this, but he did not feel very well, so he left. On his behalf, I am free to ask if the Minister will agree to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u309	I am prepared to accept that in the letter. But I just want to say here I'm not gonna turn my heart into a killer's pit that I do. Mrs Bikker has replied clearly, for which I am very grateful. I'm not gonna ask her if she's gonna vote for it or not. But if I take that in the letter, I will do it because I attach myself to a broad consensus, including in this Chamber. Not because I think that is the best solution, but because I would like to make progress and because the law is well organized. In the meantime, I'm dealing with a Lower House asking for very different things from me. I just want to share that with this room. As far as I am concerned, that is enough, but I would have liked to have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u310	I appreciate what the minister says, as well as her outstretched hand. Until this week we see very offensive two of the cases with which it all started. Those are really shocking things, and that is what this is all about. I imagine the Minister is considering that legal hook. But I strongly urge that we do not postpone that article. Because if we do put that legal hook, it still has to be done by the House of Representatives, and then you never know what will happen, because there is also very thorough and good work done there. Then it is still not possible to intervene where we all believe that intervention is needed. Moreover, I see no reason to postpone that article of the law if we have such a firm commitment from the Minister on that committee and that test. I also interpret it as saying that, if the Minister were to intervene in the present case, she would deploy such a committee, even if that legal hook had not yet been realized. Perhaps the Minister could agree to include such a committee in this case, possibly pending legislation. On behalf of my group, I am in favour of not postponing that article, not even because it is unnecessary. It is also very counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u311	Mr Schalk was already waiting, but he first gave Mrs Martens the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u312	Our group has a problem if the article is not put into effect. I think I have understood that from other groups as well. In any case, it is already delayed: you cannot start tomorrow, but you can start quickly, if it can be followed by a law that is already in place and which is not expected to be controversial. That's the maximum. The Minister knows that my group had a lot of problems and had a different route ahead of it. We already put a lot of water on the wine. Then I'm assuming this stays postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u313	The Minister made an urgent appeal to be as clear as possible. In my second term, I deliberately asked in the letter to show as clearly as possible which routes the Minister sees. I have said that I will then consider carefully what our final conclusion will be. Of course, the minister said she doesn't want to blackmail us, and I won't let him blackmail me. We simply need to look closely at the content of the letter; I will do so carefully and constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u314	I have taken very good note of what has just been said. I take this into account in my considerations when writing the letter, which the Chamber will receive for the votes. I say to the Court that I also take into account what the appeal and appeal procedures may entail. If we go through the procedure in such a way that the hook and the letter of amendment will be changed to another law, as I say to Mr Bruijn, then it is ultimately up to both the Second and the First Chamber to ensure that it is dealt with as a matter of urgency. If we all think it's important, we have to make it happen in time. Mr Bruijn asked about the wider context. I have already said a few things about this. In primary and secondary education, the inspection already has more scope for monitoring. If schools fail to implement this, action can be taken. In other sectors, this is done in a different way, appropriate to age and so on. I have promised to talk to colleagues about the public sector. I also agree that the Chamber will be informed on behalf of the cabinet about the results of this deliberation. I very much look forward to what Mr Bruijn would like to say about digitisation in internationalisation. I will debate this tomorrow with the House of Representatives. I am very curious to see what will be brought into this Chamber in due course. That is a dynamic and exciting whole. Mr Rinnooy asked whether it would be extended to other sectors. I have already promised that the Chamber will be informed of this. That is in line with what I just said to Mr Bruijn. It is not just education, but it is being extended. That's what the Chamber's gonna hear about. Mr Rinnooy Kan also asked about the letter. I've just said a few things about that. Mrs Nooren asked for that too. I think I've indicated enough of what's in the letter. Mrs Bikker asked about the legal hook. We've already talked about that. It also asked about the reasoned deviation, the open cycle and the commitment to adapt the CROHO scheme. It is foreseen that the education registers will be built in 2018 and will be realised in 2019. It's being picked up step by step. We are starting with the MBO, but there are already discussions with schools on how to register exactly. Important changes are already being made. I consider the call for this to be an important point of attention from the very beginning, so that the Croho data can be easily accessed. Mrs Bikker also asked whether access to the order could be included in the evaluation. This is a repair of the law. The complete cycle requirement has been valid for years and years. I have just indicated that, in my view, our high-quality system is sufficiently capable of adapting to dynamic developments in the outside world. Nor does it raise too high a threshold, since institutions have joined the system over the past five to ten years. In this sense, I do not see any reason to carry out a major evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u315	It doesn't have to be a big evaluation. It can simply be determined whether the current threshold ensures that no or only capital-intensive parties join now. I do not think that is a comprehensive question. I'm not asking for a complete WRR study. I'm just asking you to keep the finger on the wrist so that our order doesn't get completely tight. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u316	I say to Mrs Bikker that I will look at who has recently joined and what kind of institutions they are. We can always look into whether this gives rise to further reflections. Then it becomes a factual representation. Mrs Gerkens made a comment on the letter. I think I have said enough about this. The same applies to Mr Schalk. That's what I've had all the questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u317	I'm here to deal with the bill. We'll have recess next week, and there won't be any meetings. If this law is to be voted on, I suspect that a vote will be requested on 7 March. Minister, I've heard you say you're coming with a letter. It is important for the various parties that the letter is there before the vote is taken. It would be best if the letter could be sent by Thursday or Friday prior to the vote, i.e. on 2 or 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u318	I acknowledge that the Chamber will receive this letter by 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u319	Thank you. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill on Tuesday 7 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u320	We will receive a letter from the Minister by Friday 3 March at the latest.
