ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u1	More domestically, Mrs Karabulut is going to answer the questions raised by the Chamber about her initiative. It's always a good time for someone from the Chamber to come up with an initiative. I would like to welcome Mrs Karabulut and her supporter to section K. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. She was already there, but she didn't move. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of the legislative proposal, as is customary in the case of own-initiative proposals. The first term of office was held on 25 January. So today we are discussing the first-term answer and the second-term answer as a whole. We are also going to try to do all that before dinner break. Everyone's gonna be part of that, too, I see. That's great. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut for her first-term reply. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. Apart from the fact that this is indeed a special moment and it is very nice to be able to defend an initiative, I would particularly like to thank all my fellow Members for the kind words we are discussing today on this proposal for a law on displacement test. It is remarkable that we are all in agreement on the objective. From the PVV to GroenLinks, no party wants to suppress paid work by unpaid forces. We have a number of good starting points in the Netherlands. One of these is that work involves pay, at least the statutory minimum wage or, where a collective agreement applies, the collective wage. Displacement of paid work by unpaid work undermines this principle. This brings with it unfair competition, imprisonment in benefits and loss of real jobs. Displacement is a problem of the gardener who sees that he is getting less and less assignments, while the work is being done by people on welfare benefits without pay. Displacement is also a problem for the cleaning company that wants to offer workers a perspective and therefore hires them, but at the same time sees how municipalities fire their permanent cleaners and replace them with welfare recipients. Finally, displacement is also a problem for those who sometimes have to do regular work for many years while retaining benefits: the assistant supermarket manager who has to fold flowers in a factory hall, the entrepreneur who goes bankrupt and has to learn from the municipality to get up on time and therefore has to prick paper, the welfare mother who is required to work at PostNL without a job, without a pension and without a minimum wage, and the older workers I have spoken to many who, with 30 or 40 years of working experience, have to perform productive work while retaining benefits for many years without any prospect of a paid job. It is not for nothing that they appeal to their elected representatives, because they too want to work with wages, as we all do, because they too want economic independence and respect for the work they do. We have prepared this law with a lot of people over the last two years, but my first thanks are mainly for those who have been fighting tirelessly from the bottom up for years to bring this problem to our attention. Aldermen, job seekers, council members, representatives of interest groups, everyone's talking. Apart from the question of how to combat this displacement, everyone in the field also finds that displacement is a problem. It's not for nothing that the cleaners support our law. The same applies to the cleaners, packers and workers in the care. So is the FNV, the union. In a number of other discussions with SMEs-Netherlands there was certainly understanding of the law, but there was also a waiting attitude towards the introduction of the test. I hope that today I can also convince the groups and the spokesmen of the need for this law. First of all, I would like to address a few general questions. Next, I will deal with the relationship with volunteering, which has been asked questions. Then I will deal with the usefulness and necessity of the law and with questions about implementation, to conclude with a number of separate questions. I believe it was Mr Bishop of the SGP group who asked: what do you want; do you want to solve all the problems surrounding jobs and job losses with this? No, this law is not an answer to job losses due to structural changes in the labour market through technological innovation and robotisation, which can indeed eliminate functions but also create new functions. Mr Bishop asked me if I sometimes recognize that work disappears. Definitely I recognize that. If I'm walking around Philips right now, it's gonna look a lot different than when my dad used to work as a factory worker. Work has changed, circumstances have changed, and yes, my father has also changed. These changes and innovations are not the subject of this law. We're not going to talk about it today either. The bill tests for the displacement of paid work by the use of unpaid workers under the Participation Act. This bill does not solve the shortage of jobs either. Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group spoke about this. What we are doing is giving municipalities the tools and the mandate to test for displacement to prevent paid work from being replaced by unpaid work or that small entrepreneurs face unfair competition. In this sense, this law could also contribute to stopping the race to the bottom, the murderous competition on working conditions to which Mr De Graaf referred in his contribution. Mrs Koşer Kaya of D66, but also Mr Bishop of the SGP and Mr Heerma of the CDA Group, as well as Mrs Voortman of GroenLinks, have asked how the displacement test in this law relates to voluntary work. Does this law not make voluntary work more difficult or even impossible for beneficiaries? The answer to this is no. The aim of this law is to make a clearer distinction between volunteering on the one hand and unpaid work on the other hand within the framework of a benefit or consideration leading to the displacement of paid labour on the other. If a person with a social assistance allowance is required to perform voluntary work leading to displacement, it may be concluded from the displacement test that this obligation is in breach of the Participation Act. We are talking about repression. In other cases, you can't. The displacement test does not affect people who choose to volunteer independently of the Participation Act or a participation place within the framework of the WW itself. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks asked how we ensure that volunteering or other forms of participation are not unnecessarily prohibited. She mentioned the example of a neighborhood bus in Waterland. In a place where a bus has never driven, a new neighborhood bus arrives. The bus services are provided entirely by volunteers. If you put the neighbourhood bus in Waterland along the measuring bar of our displacement test, it becomes clear that this initiative complements an existing service. After all, the bus runs in places where a bus has never driven. Volunteers do volunteer work that has never been done by paid forces. This initiative therefore does not lead to displacement. I agree with Mrs Voortman and everyone else that we should not punish volunteering and other forms of civic participation, but rather facilitate it. However, that is different from accepting the displacement of paid work through unpaid work. However, there would have been repression in the case of a bus line where paid drivers would have been replaced by people on welfare benefits. If, for example, the municipality chooses to partially delete the bus line and outside the Participation Act to seek volunteers to drive the remaining services, then this test has no influence on that either. After all, there is no connection to the Participation Act. In this context, I can also reassure the D66 and SGP groups. The displacement test is only applied to pathways under the Participation Act, participation places within the WW and social return. The law therefore has no impact on regular volunteering. That is also the answer to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question from the D66 group. It asks whether the SP makes working without a wage impossible in general, even if repression has not been demonstrated. The answer to this is also negative. It is really about the displacement of paid labour through unpaid labour. Mr Bishop of the SGP asked what the consequences would be for people on welfare benefits as the traditional voluntary service was not covered by the bill. He argued that this would take over tasks of benefit recipients by volunteers and would result in a loss of experience for people with benefits. I do not think this will happen, perhaps rather the opposite. This law clarifies the distinction between volunteering and reintegration. Where, for example, people now have to do production work, without pay, they will probably be able to do voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u3	There are people who are at an enormous distance from the labour market and who have not worked for a very long time. Sometimes they have to practice, get back in the rhythm and stuff like that. Let's say there are people who do production work. Is that supposed to be displacement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u4	If someone is in a reintegration process, after this person hasn't worked for years, then he needs support and guidance, but then someone can't do regular productive work. Then, in the context of reintegration, an employer makes agreements with the municipality and the job seeker to go through a certain training and work experience pathway. The turning of production is not central. However, this week I spoke to a 55-year-old man from Limburg. He had worked for years, had gone through his WW and had applied silly, but hadn't gotten to work. He then works for many years in production and then again in green maintenance, every time with the promise that work will be found for him, but that never happens. This man obviously has no structure or anything, and he doesn't get any training either. Then there's displacement. I come to the third point, the usefulness and necessity of the law. Mr Heerma of the CDA asks what the proposal adds to the possibilities already in the law to combat repression. Mrs Koşer Kaya asks why the current provisions of the law are not sufficient and whether it is not a task of local democracy to combat repression. It is true that, within the framework of the compensation, the Act of Participation provides for unremunerated, socially useful work which does not lead to labour market displacement. A similar wording has been introduced in the law in the use of participation places. Here too, this work must not lead to labour market displacement. But this is what's on paper and what's in the law. However, research and practice show that displacement is accepted to some extent. Research carried out by the 2015 SZW Inspection, also cited by Mrs Voortman and Mr Kerstens in the first term, shows that the concept of "additionality" is often applied pragmatically by municipalities and that this is often a grey area. The inspection devotes this to the lack of detailed policies and policy instructions. Finally, the inspection concludes that municipal councils hardly play a role in the development of control of policy against displacement. Research into the initial experience with the Participation Act also shows that displacement and competition between target groups are the second biggest concern of municipalities. As many as 65% of the municipalities see displacement as a risk. In recent years, we have seen many examples of the displacement of paid work by unpaid workers. We have discussed this on several occasions, and questions have been asked on several occasions, by us but also by colleagues. Research by trade union FNV, but also CNV, shows displacement by welfare recipients. Our own study, 'The beneficiary of assistance', also points that out. There are dozens of examples. The flower folders in the Achterhoek. Support recipients employed by PostNL to sort mail. Municipalities that employ welfare recipients in social workshops, while SW employees have nothing to do with themselves. Support beneficiaries in The Hague and Zoetermeer must clean up those files from the Justice Department. A Drentse strawberry grower who uses welfare recipients for all common activities and even lends them to friendly companies, in order to make them even richer themselves. Harry, the Hague street sweeper who does not know him who was fired and then forced to continue his old work while retaining benefit. These are numerous examples of displacement. Unfortunately, displacement has always been recognised afterwards and only then has it been acted, rather than being prevented, which is our objective and also the objective of the Participation Act. Of course, this does not mean that local democracy would not work. Reality is not that simple. As can be seen from research on the inspection and trade unions and from the many practical examples, there are simply no clear frameworks and criteria, with the result that there is a need to heal, rather than to prevent it. We are not talking about all the cases we do not know about. You know as well as I do that there is a lot of anxiety among beneficiaries, because they are often dependent on the benefit for their income. Because the rules on displacement are not clear and there is a grey area, new examples are still emerging. This, together with the results of the investigations and the examples I mentioned, is proof for us that municipalities need more clarity and that it is useful and necessary to give this clarity. In her first term, Mrs Voortman of the GroenLinks Group clearly summarized the need for the law. She said: legal anchoring of what is displacement provides a clearer framework and helps municipal councils and victims of displacement to address this. The introduction of a mandatory test, as we want with this law, helps municipalities to draw up rules against repression and prevent it. It is, in other words, a clarification of the existing laws and rules, I also say to Mr Kerstens. The SP does not want new comprehensive legislation. At least we might want to, but that is a completely different story; that is not what we are talking about today. We want to clarify the concept of displacement and a mandatory regulation, so that municipalities and municipal councils can review and control the existing laws. I am therefore also saying this in response to extensive questions put by Mr Kerstens, who has laid the foundations for this bill, together with Mrs Hamer, by means of a parliamentary motion. Municipalities have and keep an important role in the implementation of the Participation Act. Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mr Heerma and Mrs Nijkerken of the VVD are right that the implementation of the Participation Act and its monitoring are primarily carried out by municipalities. It's gonna stay that way. We have not chosen to substantially adapt the Participation Act, to adapt the relationship between the Empire and the municipalities or to confront municipalities with prohibitions. In this initiative proposal it is also the city council, in line with the Participation Act, which is the first-control body. Municipal Councils will have more opportunities to test against the existing criteria of the Participation Act. The consideration and the places of participation must not lead to displacement. In order to ensure this, a regulation should be drawn up leading to a review on the basis of a number of criteria laid down by law. This is the answer to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question as to why a solution has not been chosen within the framework of the Participation Act. The solution, through this law, falls within the framework of the Participation Act; it is a clarification. We clarify the articles that talk about combating displacement and therefore provide for a need. I come to the fourth point, the implementation. Many questions have been asked about implementation. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD Group asks why no execution test has been requested. We have not chosen this because the legislative proposal has limited implications for municipalities. The test can be performed within the regular work. Mr Kerstens of the PvdA Group asks about the area for municipalities when applying the law and what happens once repression has been established. In the implementation of the law, municipalities have every room. There are two requirements. A Regulation should be adopted when there is displacement and how it is being reviewed. On the basis of these criteria, municipalities must check in accordance with Mr Kerstens' motion, which was tabled and held in December. How wide and with which partners exactly this happens is up to the municipalities. For example, I can well imagine that the tests for displacement will be coordinated in the labour market regions and that parties such as employers and trade unions, and of course the job seeker himself, will also be closely involved. As far as I am concerned, all the additional measures and initiatives are more than welcome. The displacement test will help. There is, after all, a clear framework which can be called back and which can also be pointed out to municipalities and companies. Through Mr Kerstens, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) asks what happens if there has been evidence of repression. This would mean that the activities would be in breach of the Participation Act and that the trajectory would be terminated. I must point out, however, that the same would happen if the Act of Participation was strictly complied with. The introduction of the displacement test is an additional incentive for municipalities and UWV to offer targeted reintegration pathways that do not lead to displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u5	Is the displacement test by region completed by the different partners, municipalities, employers and employees? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u6	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u7	This can therefore lead to differences between regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u8	This can certainly lead to regional differences, but the legal frameworks and criteria are leading. How to fill it in can vary from region to region. In a given region, there can be very good consultation with trade unions and employers, which means that there is already a working method. Then this initiative proposal is merely a clarification and an instrument to which one can fall back. We are laying down the legal frameworks. When adopting the Participation Act, the legislator assumed that such pathways would be possible without displacement. We're behind this. It's possible. Within the legal framework of the displacement test, a beneficiary who needs a lot of support and assistance can be offered a reintegration path in a company. However, the condition is that he or she does not undertake any work previously done by paid workers, that it does not affect the employees paid by the company and that the work is not profitable for the company in question. In that case, it would just be a job. Last week I received an example of this. The lady in question is now sitting here in the public gallery. There are status holders who have a temporary job at a company, for example fill boxes. Next, new status holders will have to fill boxes under the guise of the language course. The contract of the person who has been working there for a few years will then be converted into fewer hours. That, of course, is no longer a process of reintegration. If a reintegration process involves learning the language, concrete goals are agreed with the person concerned. That's exactly what the Participation Act says. Individual agreements must be made. The individual qualities of people need to be looked at. That often doesn't work when you just want to put people in for unpaid work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u9	I'm just trying to think with you. You state that reintegration into a company must not lead to merit. Should I imagine that if someone with a great distance from the labour market who needs a long run-up to get back to work does something in production anyway, at the end of the day what he has produced has to be broken up again and thrown into a bin and he has to start again the next day? I'm really trying to get a picture of that. That's my first question. Secondly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u10	No, no, no. We don't. We'll just do one question at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u11	Coincidentally, I've done production work before. When you run production, for example, put something together, and do it at the same pace and under the same conditions as your colleagues, it makes it possible to make the profits of such a company possible. If you are simply involved under those conditions, so there are regular working conditions and you deliver your production, then you should simply pay for that. Something else is when people are allowed to take part in a company somewhere, without requiring production to be carried out, in a training course with support and guidance. In that case, there is reintegration. That's exactly the difference between working without pay. You just run production, you have an authority relationship and there's a contractual relationship, but you don't get the pay. When reintegrating, someone needs to be trained to become what I don't know, for example, box filler, or production work. The problem is he's in displacement. We are concerned with preventing and testing for displacement. Displacement occurs when paid work is taken over by unpaid work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u12	Running in the context of political production, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u13	Yeah, we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u14	My second question concerns a different subject. You were just talking about the implementation and the authorities involved. You say that it has been deliberately chosen not to require an execution test at the moment. I would ask you to respond to the response of the UNG that we have received this week. The VNG is not in any doubt about this and indicates that municipalities are currently very well engaged in fulfilling the mandate that I believe is already in the law, namely that repression is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u15	I read that official note from the VNG, too. It is true that opinions on this matter are divided among local authorities. I do not think that the UNG, at least the official concerned, has read quite correctly. We did not suggest anywhere that the UNG would have agreed to this. We did have a conversation. The UNG shares with all of us here the concerns about repression. However, there are differences of opinion as to how. I would then like to refer again to the studies, the many practical examples and the undesirableness of displacement. Moreover, the Inspection SZW says that there is hardly any active role of the city council, that for that reason there is legal embarrassment and that displacement is even accepted. That's not good. It is not good for those who are looking for work and want to get out of benefits, but it is not good for, for example, a cleaning manager who wants to pay his people fairly, because it leads to unfair competition. You can still ask employers for reintegration paths, but it should not be about delivering production sec. It must be about guidance, coaching and support. Hopefully, this will increase the chances of sustainable outflow to a paid job, which is precisely the goal of a reintegration path. I very much agree with Mr Kerstens of the PvdA Group that people with, as it is sometimes called, a great distance from the labour market sometimes need support. That's right. The current frameworks of the Participation Act provide sufficient scope for this, especially after the introduction of a displacement test. In specific cases, if it is okay to allow people to work for a certain limited period of time while retaining benefits in order to reduce their distance from the labour market, several groups asked me. The question is not whether we want to work while maintaining benefits. The question is whether there is any displacement. If this is not the case and people receive support, training and guidance, it is of course not a problem. But when productive work is done in a regular setting, as in the countless examples we have seen, then it is a problem. It is therefore a question of wage-forming work and increasing knowledge and work experience. What is no longer right is that beneficiaries should be used to supply production that provides employers with money, so that beneficiaries take over the work of paid workers. A company that makes profits only because of the use of benefit recipients in the production, is doing wrong. A company that makes a profit and in which beneficiaries follow a reintegration path that does not lead to displacement, of course, is not. That is also the answer to Mr Ulenbelt's question from the SP Group. He asked why no choice was made to modify the reintegration articles in the Participation Act. We have opted for a minimal adaptation of the Participation Act, which, in our view, also leads to a more effective use of the reintegration budget of municipalities. An adaptation of the reintegration articles would mean a greater change in law, not strengthening the controlling role of the city council and likely to result in a substantial change in the reintegration budget. Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party asked how the proposed test would be designed and whether a practical example would be used to explain how it would work. Mrs Voortman asked how an employer should demonstrate that there is no displacement, without this leading to a lot of bureaucracy. All interested parties, first and foremost the job seeker himself, have an interest in ensuring that the displacement test is carried out as clearly and simply as possible. On the basis of the criteria for displacement laid down in the municipal regulation, a test consisting of about six questions is drawn up, as they are also written in the explanatory memorandum. The city needs to check the following. 1. Does a route lead to unfair competition? 2. Does the involvement of welfare recipients lead to possible dismissal of current employees? 3. Does the use of people on welfare benefits lead to changes in working conditions in the current workforce? The case of the status holders at work was such an example. 4. Is there a shift from paid to unpaid work, for example because vacancies are no longer filled? 5. Is the use of social assistance recipients profitable for the employer? 6. Does the trajectory include work carried out by paid workers over the past five years? At the start of the journey or if there are a number of similar routes with one employer, these six points will be examined with the organisation or company concerned. The way this happens is up to the municipality. A municipality can choose to pour this into a contract or to use a simple checklist. In doing so, the municipality is dependent on the information provided by the relevant organisation or company. The review of displacement can therefore take place within existing discussions. The SZW inspection shall check whether relevant public authorities use the displacement test to determine whether a regulation or policy rules have been drawn up. It checks, on a sample basis, whether municipalities and organisations concerned comply with these agreements. In addition, the inspection is investigating on the basis of notifications. Mr Bishop of the SGP Group asked why the SZW inspection should only monitor and not maintain, and why there is a deviation from the principle that the city council is the regulator and controls compliance with the law. If necessary, the inspection can naturally be maintained, for example in the case of unsafe or poor working conditions. However, we have chosen to ensure that monitoring, enforcement and measures are as closely linked as possible to the Participation Act. In this case, if the member of the board finds serious shortcomings in the lawful implementation of the Participation Act, he or she may give an indication to the Secretary of State at the college of the municipality concerned. In the extreme case, a reduction may be imposed. If the company is in breach, for example by deliberately providing false information or failing to comply with the agreements, other common routes can be followed, for example a criminal or administrative sanction. I would add that the city council is primarily responsible for monitoring the implementation of the regulations. Those who want to make it clear, thanks to activism and the use of the bottom, that there are certain things that need to be changed because there are no wages, have a clear lead. This facilitates the cooperation of employers, employees and companies. The Labour Party therefore suggested in the written input the possibility of setting up local intervention teams together with, for example, trade unions and setting up a hotline for each labour market region. It's possible. These are all excellent initiatives in addition to this bill. The SGP spokesperson asked questions about the five-year deadline. What happens if a municipality decides to have coffee served in a nursing home three years after the coffee ladies or gentlemen have been cut off? Why is a substantive criterion not sufficient? In drawing up the displacement test, setting a time limit has been an important consideration. Otherwise, companies and organisations may, in a manner of speaking, have their employees laid off one month after they have had the benefit recipients carry out the work. The example of giving coffee in the nursing home can lead, under the current circumstances, to a dismissed coffee lady or lord arriving in welfare after two years and then doing the old work while retaining benefits, as we have also seen with street sweeper Harry. The five-year period is a reasonable period to assess whether a job or job actually needs to be filled out by paid staff. Mr Ulenbelt of the SP asked what I think of the employers' proposal in the cleaning sector, the OSB, that instead of the minimum wage, the collective wage should be applied where appropriate. I think that is a good proposal. That is also in line with this law. If a majority of the House is very enthusiastic about this, then I am at least as enthusiastic about it. Finally. The Labour Party asked if I would be willing to amend my proposal for a majority in the Chamber. That's what I'm going for, I can tell. I hope so, too. Of course, I am always willing to take on board good suggestions, depending on the content and on the right arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u16	I do not come up with a suggestion, but with a question to clarify Articles 8d and 8g. By the way, I understand that Mr Coppus must now browse as quickly as possible to see what is in it. Article 8d sets out a number of principles in the displacement test. Article 8g contains a number of conditions. Can Mrs Karabulut briefly state the difference between these two articles? Maybe I've read about it, but the articles aren't exactly right. One article refers to the five-year period, but not to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u17	Clarifying questions are part of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u18	Sure, and I'm very happy about that, too. Article 8d sets out the cross-compliance conditions and criteria. Article 8g is more concerned with the question of what is covered and the way in which it is further developed by General Measure of Governance and more of that kind of detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u19	This is a lot clearer. I thank Mrs Karabulut for this answer. Mrs Karabulut indicated earlier, in response to what Mr Koşer Kaya said, that this is about a further interpretation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u20	Clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u21	...clearance of the law. Does that mean that the conditions, the principles we just reviewed, are not new? The five-year period is, in my view, a new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u22	Sure, it's an effect. I don't want to have a semantic discussion here, and neither do you, I know that. But it's an effect and that's how we fill it out. The point is that, in practice, we find that everyone is against repression, but that no one knows what that is, let alone how to test it. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u23	That's what you're doing it for? I see Mr. Kerstens nodding. Were you ready, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u25	Thank you very much. Then we'll be ready to advise the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u26	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet appreciates the considerable work done, both by Mrs Karabulut and the applicant, and by her support. It's very literal here as backup. That's fine. I should also like to make it absolutely clear that the cabinet also considers that unfair competition in the labour market is an undesirable phenomenon. In my view, the debate has highlighted this very clearly in the first debate of the Chamber, and now, just in the first term, by Mrs Karabulut.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The city council is essential in this respect, which really has a controlling task. I also notice that municipalities prevent displacement, in various ways. There are municipalities that investigate how the demand arose from an employer and municipalities that use checklists or review frameworks and involve the client council or allow the customer manager to judge. Among other things, the municipality of The Hague, together with the FNV, has established a hotline displacement. In short, municipalities are busy. The initiator notes that there are also municipalities which do not pay sufficient attention to the prevention of repression, despite the legal provisions, case law and the rules of the game that have been formulated. So the initiative proposal requires municipalities and UWV to take a broad displacement test. I'll go into staccato on this. As the Chamber has already pointed out, it is extremely important to take into account the impact of the proposal on people who are remote from the labour market. The National Client Council notes in its response to the bill that learning to work in a real working environment works best. People with a great distance from the labour market should be able to participate temporarily in an ordinary working environment as part of their employment integration. In this way they can get work training, follow practical training, get used to what it is like to have a job, gain more confidence in themselves as an employee and have the opportunity to present themselves to colleagues and to the employer. Municipalities experience that getting the work experience in a real workplace increases the chances of successful outflow. Research supports that, too. In short, a major objection from the cabinet to the initiative proposal is that it will be more difficult to redirect people back to the labour market by blocking effective reintegration instruments in full or often in part. That denies people opportunities. This brings me to a third point: the added value of the initiative law on the existing provisions. For example, current legislation already ensures that a return is made only in addition to or in addition to regular work and does not lead to labour market displacement. Labour market trajectories should not be irresponsible in terms of competitive relations and participation places should involve additional work. The mandatory displacement test adds a number of statutory control mechanisms. However, the question can be asked as to whether these provisions relate in an enlightening and enriching way to existing legislation. Due to the nature and application of the instrument, there is no real risk of displacement in test placements. For example, the UWV also has comprehensive policy rules to prevent displacement. So that is also an important part. In consultation with VNG and Divosa, rules have been developed to support municipalities in preventing displacement. They are included in a working method of the Programme Board. I have also pointed out the importance of preventing displacement in various collection letters and at national aldermen's meetings, as I sincerely recognise this and the setting up and implementation of municipal policies for this purpose. Divosa is going to publish a hand-out very soon to further support policy makers and performers, including practical examples. That is important in this discussion. In addition, I note that the parties in the Chamber also picked up the glove to ensure that social return does not lead to unfair competition, where one loses one's job in favour of the other. The cabinet supports the principles of prevention of displacement which the Chamber has formulated and regionalised. The Cabinet notes that the initiative law increases the administrative burden of implementation of reintegration by municipalities and UWV, and also increases administrative burdens for companies registering for calls for tenders with social return. I also note that voluntary work chosen by the beneficiary himself to be used in the context of social activation should be subject to the displacement test. Finally, the proposal affects the supervision and the supervisory instrument of the designation. There are some comments to be made. In fact, it is proposed to carry out specific inter-administrative supervision on a specific component, assuming that this is in line with the responsibility of the inspection for monitoring the implementation of the Participation Act by municipalities. That assumption is incorrect, because since 2013 inter-administrative supervision has no longer been part of the regular tasks of the inspection. Systematic national supervision of the lawful implementation of the Participation Act by municipalities is therefore no longer at issue. Partial reintroduction of specific inter-administrative supervision is not only administratively undesirable but also, in fact, not feasible because the inspection does not have a formation for that task. As with the other aspects of the Participation Act, it is the task of the City Council to monitor the correct implementation by the College. In conclusion, I would like to say that the cabinet is dissuading the present initiative proposal. This is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet leaves its hands together with municipalities, clients, trade unions and employers to prevent displacement. Information points for displacement in labour market regions, which already exist, for example in the Hague region, contribute to this. They can be a very good vehicle to engage in conversation and stay alert to situations of displacement. In this context, the parties to the regional work companies should be involved. I brought that to the attention of the Workroom, of course. It is also in the process of making good instruments for this with Divosa and the VNG. A number of things are thus already enshrined in the current Participation Act. The cabinet, of course, also thinks that displacement is something we should keep far from ourselves. I see that in practice a lot of initiatives are already being taken to eradicate displacement and to ensure that people can gain work experience in the way they adapt to the labour market, without any real focus on displacement. We must remain alert, so I am glad that this issue has been put back on the agenda, but I do not think that the law needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u27	Thank you very much. I think all the Members who take part in this debate know that Mrs Karabulut would really like to respond to this. But we can't, because we're going to the second term of office. Is there a need for a second term among members? I see people nodding yes and I also see a few no shaking. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? No, I see. Then we'll get right on it. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u28	Mr. Chairman. I indicated in my first term that displacement is a major problem. People are in a benefit situation and are forced to work at benefit level, while at the same time they are not paid for it. Meanwhile, other people feel like they're being repressed. I therefore think that Mrs Karabulut's initiative law on the introduction of a displacement test is a good proposal. I had two questions. How do we ensure that volunteering or other forms of participation are not unnecessarily prohibited? How do we ensure that this test does not lead to much more administrative burdens? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, both questions have been adequately answered. GroenLinks can therefore also wholeheartedly agree with this bill. I hope there will be a majority for it. If that is the case, I wish Mrs Karabulut every success in defending this bill in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u29	Mr. Chairman. Finding a job is the best boost that you can give your purchasing power: from a benefit to a salary; that's the key. Fortunately, more and more people are getting jobs, young people and all the older people. Employment is growing faster than it has been in years and unemployment continues to fall, as we could read again this morning. Although many people can get back to work on their own, that does not apply to everyone. Especially if you have been dependent on a benefit for some time or for some other reason, as it is called, a great distance from the labour market, you can use all the help you can get. You're entitled to that help, too. It takes into account who you are, what you can do, what you want and what it takes to get there. Sometimes, given that large distance, a run-up or even a run-up is needed. Mrs Karabulut also states that herself, as well as the client council. You need to get rhythm and work experience back. You have to work on your knowledge and skills. This is done with the retention of benefits, without having to pay for such things as travel expenses, industrial clothes or child care, because that is not a big deal. I assume that the Secretary of State can confirm this, and I would like to hear her appeal to municipalities again. Municipalities are required to provide customised services on such routes. They shouldn't let everyone stab paper for four weeks. I would like confirmation that the Secretary of State agrees. Municipalities must also check in advance whether there is any displacement, which means that paid jobs are exchanged for unpaid work. I have repeatedly drawn attention to this, as Mrs Karabulut said. Research by the Inspection SZW, but also if you just ask around in the country, shows that the preliminary testing does not happen more often than not. That's gotta be different. I tabled a motion on this matter a few months ago. I'm considering reposing it to at least help that key to the finish line. Mrs Karabulut and I agree that municipalities really need to be helped to go ahead and test. Honesty commands me to say that there were still some questions in my group and are about the new criteria discussed today in Mrs Karabulut's proposal. There are colleagues in my group who have questions about their very broad definition. They believe that the criteria for excluding the provision of additional opportunities for people with disabilities through some additional wage costs subsidies make it impossible for them to work counter-productively. The people we would like to help may not have been helped. Mrs Karabulut has done her best today to answer the questions I asked in the first period. I promise her that I will discuss this with my group before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u30	It was in 2013 that Mrs Hamer and Mr Kerstens jointly tabled a motion asking for clarification of the rules on repression. Measures and clear criteria were requested. Now Mrs Karabulut has put forward clear and clear criteria. Nevertheless, Mr Kerstens still sees a small problem, an objection or an object. Would he like to explain it so that Mrs Karabulut, if she so wishes, has the opportunity to remove any objections in the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u31	That's a fair question. In the past, including in Mr Ulenbelt's motion, I, along with Mr Hamer, have asked for handles and rules of the game and for measures to be taken to enforce those rules. In the first term, I indicated that there have been rules and gauntlets, but that enforcement is very poor. In the first place, this is the case, as demonstrated by the investigation of the SZW inspection because half of the municipalities do not check in advance whether there is displacement. I have just asked about the principles and conditions and, among other things, the five-year period. If a person with a disability can work through a wage subsidy that we are all in favour of, and that wage subsidy does not stop at the minimum wage, but also covers a higher wage that is to be paid, then it could lead to people with a disability not getting their turn, because it is seen as displacement. On the contrary, I am so keen to see.... and I think a lot of people in the Chamber with me... that they will get a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u32	That is an interesting question from Mr Kerstens. I know from my intensive contacts with my group colleague that it is not intended to include the specific example that Mr Kerstens is now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u33	If that's the case, I'm sure it'll help. I would just like to make it clear once again that we believe we have read in the documents that in the event that the wage subsidy covers not only the difference between the wage value and the statutory minimum wage, but also the difference between the wage value and the actual wage payable, there would be repression, because that is one of the principles, criteria or conditions mentioned. This is seen in our view as a very broad description. If people are dealing with people with disabilities, if they can use extra support to get to a place, you shouldn't want to obstruct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u34	Would it then be worthwhile for me to invite Mrs Karabulut and Mr Kerstens to make a few more points? Because that is how I experience Mr Kerstens's words a little bit. In this way, his support for this bill is not unduly withheld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u35	We're in the middle of negotiations, I get the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u36	I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. I have indicated that it is an important aspect for my group. We should not put the horse behind the cart in such a way that nothing can be done at all and people are denied the chance to get a real job through the run-up that is sometimes necessary. I'm sure I'd like to think along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u37	In any case, this point has been properly dealt with. I understand from the words of Mr Kerstens that this is not the only point that requires him to discuss this in the group. Can Mr Kerstens indicate on which points it depends whether the Labour Party votes in favour or against?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u38	I have already indicated that, as far as we are concerned, the displacement test really needs to be imposed. That is not happening at the moment. I have already tabled and held a motion on this matter. If it is necessary to at least bring that part to the finish line, I would like to table that motion again. It was asked where there is still doubt. The doubt lies in the further interpretation of it by means of a number of criteria, as Mrs Karabulut calls it. In addition, you can ask the question: are they not so broadly defined that this law cuts off a lot of routes that we think should be given a chance, because they help people get paid jobs? I had a very specific exchange of views with Mr Ulenbelt on this subject. This was about the wage cost subsidy. Another point is that this five-year period suddenly comes to light. I think we're talking about a year in law or in other places. Five years is a long time. In the end, it's about the total assessment. Is the set of conditions and criteria such that it cuts off the possibilities of paid work too much for people who are unlikely to get there in any other way? Because if you meet only one condition, there is already talk of displacement. That's the total weighing we make. These things are very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u39	If Mr. Kerstens there...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u40	That's gonna be the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u41	No, this is the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u42	This isn't the first interruption, but fine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u43	No, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u44	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u45	Now I need to think... If what Mr Kerstens said is the point, he could also table an amendment or motion, which he can take to his group. It's my job to be clear next week. If the Labour Party needs anything else, I would say: submit a motion or amendment to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u46	I have just heard Mr Ulenbelt's invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u47	Mr Kerstens is considering putting a motion to the vote. My group has been quite clear in the first term about not being enthusiastic about this bill. Suppose Mrs. Karabulut's bill was passed. Then what does the motion held add to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u48	Then nothing. The motion that has been held only refers to the imposition of an ex ante displacement test, and not to the introduction of new criteria, which is the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u49	In doing so, the PvdA Group is considering putting the motion to the vote if it votes against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u50	I don't necessarily know about the latter. We're not the majority on our own. I have indicated that in any case we want to force municipalities, at the very heart of Mrs Karabulut's proposal, to take the compulsory displacement test, which they often say they do but which, in practice, shows that it is not happening or is not doing enough. The discussion in my group is about whether the other criteria are not so restrictive that they do not help the people you would like to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u51	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Karabulut for the answers. She has addressed in detail the questions I asked in the first term. I will take these answers back to my group in order to be able to give a final judgment. We all share that it's important that people find a paid job, that they can be proud of and that they can have hope for the future. My final judgment will become clear after discussion in the group next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u52	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut for her first answer. The VVD is not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the initiative law, even after the initiator's response. We believe that imposing strict criteria will make it more difficult for jobseekers with a distance from the labour market to return to paid employment through a run-up. We believe that crucial instruments are being made impossible. We believe that this law is premature and, for the time being, really unnecessary. It's too soon. The law is not good for job seekers and for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u53	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said to Mrs Karabulut that this was the first debate in which a number of hours were talked about repression without her speaking and wished her that she could make up for it in her own first term. That is what she has done in the last hour and a half to answer all the questions from the Chamber. On the basis of my first term, it may be clear that I am critical of this proposal. That remained the case after the answer was received. Mrs Karabulut indicates that this bill offers municipalities tools to test, but I think municipalities already have these instruments. It also indicates that the law provides for a need for municipalities, but in my opinion municipalities also indicate in the letter from the VNG that there is no such need. Also with the story that there are limited consequences for municipalities that would not require a performance test, I have a lot of doubts. In my view, it does add bureaucracy that will cost municipalities and reduce the chances of getting people to work. I wasn't excited about the bill and I'm still not. I share the assessment that it's too premature. The Participation Act hasn't been around that long. You see in all kinds of municipal councils more and more the discussion about what is and is not repression. I have a specific question about volunteering after the answer. Mrs Karabulut says that volunteering falls outside the scope of the displacement test. However, there are several municipalities that have included volunteering as part of the consideration. When a municipality asks someone what he or she is doing and the answer is that that person is doing volunteer work, is there an obligation to apply a displacement test? Do I see that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u54	I think Mr Kerstens has another question on your penultimate point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u55	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma pointed out that the CDA, like most parties in this house, was against repression. He also says that, as far as he is concerned, municipalities have sufficient instruments to prevent displacement. Does he think that the municipalities also use these instruments sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u56	The Council of State states that after two years after the entry into force of the Act of Participation, it is still too early to consider that municipalities would not properly fulfil that great responsibility given with decentralisation. I agree. I see that I hope Mr Kerstens will also see that in many municipalities and municipal councils there is now more discussion about the broad, local implementation of the Participation Act than when the law had just been introduced. So yes, I see an increase in municipalities where municipal councils are consciously involved in the way the Participation Act is implemented. It is therefore too early to say, as a government that first decentralised this responsibility, that it must be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u57	I suddenly remembered the proverb "when the calf is drowned, the well is muffled." Now the Inspection SZW says that not half of the municipalities use the tools to prevent displacement by, for example, checking in advance. Is Mr Heerma of a completely different opinion than the inspection or does he agree with me that it is a very important and disturbing signal when the inspection says that more than half of the municipalities are not doing anything about it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u58	In a lot of municipalities, you can see that it happens more often. Decentralising also has to do with giving confidence. If Mr Kerstens thinks that this is so strong, then the PvdA Group is free to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, but I understand that there is still discussion within that group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u59	Mr. Chairman. Almost at the end of this debate, too, it appears that all parties in this Chamber are opposed to the displacement of paid work by unpaid work. That is also the purpose of the law. In practice, Mrs Karabulut has given many examples of this: all this does not work out as the legislator intended. It's been reported before in this Chamber. The criteria have also been requested to be clarified and developed. Mrs Karabulut is not making an extremely revolutionary proposal. She is extremely modest, I can assure you all. She also emphasizes this in her contribution by talking here about a more detailed interpretation of the law. I just had a little debate with Mr Kerstens about the implementation of the law. So that's probably gonna work out. If that is resolved, then we are not going to dampen the well when the calf has drowned. That is exactly what I agree with Mr Kerstens because we have the test in advance. As Mr Kerstens said, municipal councils are indeed involved in this sporadically. In order to avoid displacement, we want all municipal councils to interfere. That's what we give them the instrument for. I think Mrs Karabulut has given excellent answers to the questions of the political groups that still had doubts. The displacement is sometimes getting so big that you can't live without this bill. It is modest, it is an interpretation of an existing law, so, ladies and gentlemen, put that fear of cold water aside and support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u60	The applicant asked me to suspend for 15 minutes to prepare her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u61	I am delighted to give the floor to the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their first and second contributions. I am optimistic because we share the purpose of the bill: we do not want to push out paid work through unpaid work. We've established a number of facts with each other. Despite the fact that we do not want this displacement, it is very common in practice. The SZW inspection I repeat that..... writes that municipalities, if they do anything about it, only take over the legal provision. I certainly do not deny that the Secretary of State says that, and I see that around me too, there are municipalities working on it, but a legal framework is necessary. For this reason we have joined the motion-Kerstens/Hamer (33750-XV, No. 35) of 4 December 2013 to lay down rules of play with measures and objective criteria. The Displacement Test Act is exactly what Mr Kerstens wants; he has tabled and held a motion on this matter. We all want to check in advance for displacement instead of having to heal afterwards. Displacement is not a new phenomenon that has only appeared under the Participation Act. In all these years we have been talking about this, I have noticed and noticed that it is extremely unfair for people who have worked their whole lives but who are then unlucky enough to become unemployed when they are dying to get a job and produce, to be put to work unpaidly for years. That's unfair. That makes people angry and sad. People rightly demand that we do something about it. Municipalities say they want to do exactly that. A number of questions were asked and a number of comments were made. I would like to thank the GroenLinks groups and the PvdA for their strong support for this bill. From D66 I look forward to the debate in the group with great optimism. At least I have not heard any questions from this group. I have heard a number of questions from Mr Kerstens. I would like to say something to Mr Kerstens on a number of points. The first concerns the point raised by the Secretary of State, that the system of supervision, the inter-administrative inspection, would have changed and that we would go a little too far in our own initiative law. On this point, I will amend the law so that we can really see what our intention is, namely: municipalities are primarily responsible, we impose a framework with clear criteria, there is an ex ante assessment and the Inspection SZW can take this into account in the regular checks. I would therefore like to respond to the Secretary of State and the Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u63	May I ask you as a court counselor when that letter of amendment will arrive at the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u64	It will arrive at the Chamber well before voting this week, but not later than Tuesday, because we want to put this bill to the vote on Tuesday. That's enough information for you, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u65	The Chamber is about the latter, but proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u66	On the second point, mentioned by Mr Kerstens and others, I thought I had been sufficiently clear in my first term. This bill does not limit the chances of people with disabilities. The article to which Mr Kerstens presumably refers is not about the use of wage costs subsidies but about profit-making by municipalities or companies through the use of benefits, i.e. beneficiaries. That's what it's about. However, I understand that this is not sufficiently clear. So on this point, too, I will make a clarification through the letter of amendment. Mr Kerstens had the final question as to whether the five-year deadline for assessing the work had not disappeared. Of this, Mr Kerstens says that this is a big difference from the current situation and he asks whether it can be reduced. On that point, too, I will respond to Mr Kerstens. Having said all that, we come up with a whole which does exactly what the Chamber has asked for in motions of censure, which is the desire of a number of political groups and my group and, above all, what the people are about to do, namely to prevent displacement and to test it in advance. That's all this bill does, no more and no less. In reply to Mr Heerma's question whether a test on displacement is mandatory if, in the context of the consideration, a beneficiary in the municipality states that he wants to do voluntary work, the answer is no. That volunteering is voluntary. However, we also know that the compensation can be imposed. We also have the example he may remember, the judge has given a ruling on this matter from people who were forced to volunteer 32 hours a week under the heading of 'counterperformance', simply paid work, without being rewarded for it. Of course, that has to be tested. All the other regular volunteering is not included. Perhaps this could change Mr Heerma's opinion in the form of a slightly more positive opinion towards his group. Mr. Chairman. I have answered the most important questions and comments. A letter of amendment will follow. I really hope that next Tuesday we will all vote in favour of a law on the repression test which will be tested in advance for repression and which will enable us to stop and combat work without pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u67	Then I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State in her role as advisor. Go ahead. I see you've rolled back to your spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u68	In my role as advisor, I roll to my place. It's beautiful. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked the specific question of how it would be if municipalities asked welfare recipients to pay their own business clothes or travel expenses when they start working, as a way of getting to the labour market. I am not familiar with any examples of this. If Mr Kerstens does have those examples, I would like to hear them. I don't think it's a good idea for municipalities to do that, but I really don't know the examples. So let me know, I would like to ask Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u69	Are you saying that Mr Kerstens is now supposed to jump up and name names? Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u70	Mr Kerstens is quite elastic, but he doesn't have to. I am undoubtedly given the names and numbers of the relevant municipalities after the debate. Then I can see if I can do anything with it in a collector's letter or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u71	I took your comment seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u72	It might be more convenient if I walked to the microphone and said that I would provide those examples instead of just nodding from my place. On this point, I will give concrete examples to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u73	Mr Ulenbelt on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u74	Mr Kerstens now says that the Secretary of State gets the examples, but I think the whole Chamber is interested in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u75	Now Mr Kerstens nods again, I say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u76	Indeed, Mr. Christmas nods. Mr. Chairman. In fact, all the spokesmen say that repression should not be possible. We note that it can be discussed at different moments. Of course, we all want to do something about that. The preliminary testing is a good idea in itself, but the point of attention is as follows. The Council of State says that we are just getting upset and that a number of municipalities are already doing so in the context of the displacement test and some are not yet. It is now too early, according to the Council of State, to put all these kinds of firm legislative proposals on the table. Actually, I think so, too. In addition, I think it is right to say that for character formation in the labour market regions, municipalities, social partners and the UWV are conclaved on how they want to deal with the phenomenon of displacement at the front. In some labour market regions things are already going well, also because the professionals there are helping to get things moving. This is not yet the case in other labour market regions. As far as I am concerned, this debate also serves to sound the clock on this point again. So I think that is excellent. I listened carefully to the applicant, who said she would make a note of amendment to a number of different parts. On behalf of the cabinet, I await that letter of amendment, but I think that the Chamber has understood me correctly that I think it is a very strong signal at the moment to change the matter by legislative means. I think that's a little too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to interrupt? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u78	I would like to thank both the applicant and the Secretary of State. The standard phrase is then that I propose to vote next Tuesday. However, I would point out that you will then vote on a legislative proposal on which you will receive a letter of amendment on which you have not received any advice from the cabinet. It's up to you to decide. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u79	My advice remains negative. Just so I'm clear, I think I've put it clearly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u80	Well, I was just finishing the trial with the Chamber. You can do that on your own. Members may also ask the Secretary of State to clarify documents that have not yet been drawn up, if they can do so in advance. I'd say that's wringing too. So I'm gonna look around and see what the members want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u81	If the letter of amendment is there soon, it seems to me that the cabinet can reply to it in writing before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u82	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u83	Of course, I'd be happy to do that, Mr President. However, I think that I have clearly indicated that I consider the legislative proposal as such, including a letter of amendment, premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-36.u84	That is what Members know in advance, so that they can form an opinion in their political groups that is based on full preparation. That was the importance I was trying to serve. In that case, the vote will take place next Tuesday, taking into account what has just been said. Thank you both very much once again.
