ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u1	I received written answers from the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the Secretary of State, I would like to thank Members very much for their input in the first term. We appreciate the great commitment shown by the Chamber and the importance it attaches to the work of Defence in these times of increased uncertainty and insecurity. Mr President, I intend to make my contribution along the following lines. After a general introduction, I will discuss three priorities that Defence will focus on: the people, the resources and the ways. Within these three priorities, I use cups, which I will name in advance for you. Within these priorities, the Secretary of State will look more closely at certain aspects: the maintenance and recruitment of staff, well-maintained and well-maintained equipment and the safe working environment. Mr. Chairman. The men and women of Defense often do their jobs under difficult circumstances. Our soldiers are expected to be always usable and available. They always work with danger for their own lives. They are often long away from home and from their loved ones. They must always be prepared for engagement, at all stages of a conflict and, if necessary, at a great distance from home. That was also discussed yesterday. Defence civil servants play an important supporting role in this regard. Without them, successful military deployment is not possible. When I was at Mission MAX, a home front day, I saw for myself what it means to families, what it does to families. That is what our people are doing, and I would like to stress this, Mr President, not for themselves, but for others. We, the Secretary of State and I, would therefore like to express our appreciation for the people who have to live up to it every day and do so next year, including in Iraq, Mali, Afghanistan and off the coast of Somalia. Let us also remember that almost a third of the armed forces are ready to keep our country safe every day here in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the declaration of government, Mr Pechtold asked about the priorities of the cabinet. The Defence Note, which you will receive in the first quarter of 2018, will, of course, explain the priorities of Defence in detail. However, today we are probably taking an advance on this, because reinforcement and renewal of the armed forces are urgent. There is much at stake: our values and interests and the freedom we enjoy. We must continue to be able to defend them, together with our partners and allies. I always say it this way: freedom, including our freedom, is not self-evident. Mrs Popken I understand that she is ill today; perhaps I can wish her well from here on, asking what amount of defense is going to pay to keep our borders and our territory safe. In the years to come, we must first of all remain safe in the Netherlands and Europe, secondly, we must continue to bring security into the ring of instability around Europe and the Kingdom, and thirdly, we must remain securely connected with the world around us. All this contributes directly and indirectly to keeping our people and our society safe. That is why the entire budget, that is, the entire Defence budget, is used for this, because it requires investment in the reinforcement and renewal of the armed forces. After all, we want our country to be able to count on a modern military force well equipped to carry out its difficult task. For that, I would like to focus on three issues, if you like "prioritys." I told you, people, resources and manners. I set up my story along these priorities and I want to start with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Secretary, I see an interruption by Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u5	It's Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u6	Madam Secretary, excuse me. Excuse me, Madam Secretary. I see an interruption by Mrs Karabulut. I have to get used to this position and Mrs Karabulut has the floor for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u7	Very good, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. She wants to contribute to a safer world. It wants to combat terrorism, stop insecurity and the ring of instability. Can she tell us whether the current strategy, the war on terrorism started 16 years ago, is currently contributing to security in the world, in Europe and in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u8	I'm not ready for the "international" block yet. This was my general introduction. I will come back to that later. But we do, of course, do these missions to contribute to security in the broad sense. That actually means something for security in our own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u9	That is not an answer to my question. It is not just the international aspect. I am asking this because the current strategy - I can actually put it into practice - means, for 16 years now, more terrorism, more deaths due to terrorism, more refugees and much more chaos in the world. So is the Minister prepared to let go of the current mantra of war on terrorism in the international security vision she is about to write, and to look for a new strategy that might bring us security and stability?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u10	The starting point is, of course, that it is about safeguarding security and freedom. That was the general introductory part I was talking about. Moreover, we do not write the note on international security strategies. We are writing a Defence Note, which fits in with the government agreement as well as the international security strategy. I will come back to this later, because the two will be drawn together and presented in the first quarter of next year. Of course, we must take into account all the aspects of the type you are referring to, but also the aspects that others mentioned yesterday and which I will come back to later. I'd even like to involve you in that, but I'm going to say that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u11	I suggest, Madam Secretary, that you continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I told you I'd set my story up according to those three priorities and I'd started with the people. Over the past few years, there has been a growing awareness that the years of mission pressure and austerity have not only required much from Defence as an organisation, but also from the people of Defence in particular. Actually, everyone put that in yesterday. Our people must be able to do their job as well as possible. They must have the right equipment, they must be able to practice, they must have proper supplies, they must have adequate facilities and they must have adequate support. In short, they must be able to do what they came to do with Defence, but that has not always been possible in recent years. Concrete improvements are necessary to strengthen the trust of employees. I consider that to be one of my most important tasks. In this context, I am very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations with the trade unions, the power stations, which include agreements on salary increases and other, better working conditions. The Secretary of State will look more closely at personnel policy in the near future. I just wanted to answer Mrs Popken's question about wearing a uniform in public transport. The threat analysis of STIVD is leading the assessment of whether the uniform ban, as it is called, can be lifted in public transport during commuting. This threat has not changed so far. That is why there is no general lifting at the moment. Regular review shall be carried out, together with the STPD and the Safety Authority, on whether the prohibition can be adjusted or lifted. I heard Mrs. Popken. Mrs Bruins Slot also came back to this. I am talking about this and I will take up this point, also because I and the Secretary of State of our men and women hear that they are proud of their uniform. In that context, Mrs Bruins Slot raised this point. By the way, there are many places in the public space where military personnel are working in their uniforms. But I'll pick it up, and we'll get back to you. Then I come to my next priority: the means. In this context, I would like to talk about the following matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u13	Madam Secretary, first there is a question from Mrs Bruins Slot to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u14	I thank the Minister for saying so clearly that she sees that soldiers are proud of their uniform and that, where this is possible, they must, of course, wear the uniform. My point was wider than that. The CDA also considers it important to increase the visibility of the armed forces in society. My question is whether the Minister will go into that now, but I understand that she will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u15	That's kind of the tricky part of the division of labour. I have taken up this point and I have said that the Secretary of State will address a number of other issues relating to staff policy and staff provision. It will come back to this point. If that is not enough for you, you can always ask a question about it in the second term and we will come back to it in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u16	The question is whether this will also affect Mrs Karabulut's question. That is not the case. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has followed this and now probably knows better than I do that there is a major problem with the culture in the Defense Department. Terrible things have come along. There's a lot of tension and mistrust. I asked the Minister yesterday if she could guarantee that the defence personnel are safe and that the personnel can report abuse cases and other abuses. How does she intend to change this cover-up culture? What guarantees can the Minister give?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u18	I've certainly heard the question. This, too, is a part of the division of tasks which the Secretary of State will address. In general, I would like to say this, because we fully agree on this: matters such as abuse can and should never occur in the defence sector. That will always have to be reported. When it comes to safety and safe working, it is important that there is a safe environment where everyone, regardless of where he or she works today there was everything in the news about other organisations that can report matters safely. But this is part of the Secretary of State's portfolio. She will deal with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u19	Mrs Karbulut, I understand that this subject lies with the Secretary of State and will be back shortly. Before I give you the floor, I therefore ask you: would it not be a suggestion that you bring the subject forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u20	I will certainly do so, Mr President, but I think it is also a very relevant point for the Minister, because in the end she is also responsible for overall policy. I would like to ask the Minister the following. You and the Secretary of State say that we do not need an additional hotline at the moment. But people feel unsafe. Would you like to call on the employees of Defence, because we are now also calling on the Defence Organisation to report any wrongdoings? Would you like to say about all the reports that have come to the union and to the newspapers: report it? Where can people report in the event that the mistrust is so great that those involved do not dare to do so to their superiors or internally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u21	The Secretary of State will say exactly where to report, but I would like to make that appeal, perhaps over your head, to all staff. Everyone, regardless of where he or she works in our organization, must work in a safe working environment. Anyone who has something to say should actually report to us, rather than to all kinds of other organisations. As far as I'm concerned, everyone has to come forward and over your head, I'll just say, I'll make that call, partly on your behalf, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u22	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u23	The Secretary of State will discuss this issue further in the near future. Nevertheless, I had arrived at the resources. I would like to say something about the basic readiness, the support of the armed forces and the further composition and equipment of the armed forces. I'll start with the basics. The extra funds from the previous cabinet to put things in order are beginning to pay carefully. We put units in order step by step, replenish supplies and there will be more resources for maintenance, practice and training. The pace at which this happens varies from one unit to another, and the recovery will not go fast enough for everyone. I get that. But the road up is noticeably deployed. This process is still ongoing and must be completed during this cabinet period. I share the importance that Mr Voordewind attaches to this. This is really the first priority that needs to be done. Then the support of the armed forces. I want to get started quickly. In order to ensure that we do not waste any time, I have sent you a letter of amendment last week with a package of measures to improve the support of our units. We shall proceed immediately with the implementation of the measures. There will be a sustainable better balance between fighting units and operational support. This is how we improve the employability and permanence of the armed forces. Missions will be better supported and can be sustained longer. That is also very important for the readiness of the armed forces. Units will have the support necessary for their exercise and training. The measures solve serious shortages by, for example, you know, but I would nevertheless like to mention them more and better intelligence by speeding up the purchase of an unmanned and unarmed air system for intimate: the MALE UAV or the Reaper service and the strengthening of the STUDY. This will not only increase the capacity for continuation, but also improve the security and security of the armed forces. I'll mention the expansion of the explosives disposal. The EODD is systematically being called upon. By expanding this capacity, availability is guaranteed in the Netherlands and beyond. The pressure on current staff is also reduced, and training and training can be adequately supported, as it should be. Then the creation of a counter hybrid unit. Defence will provide a more focused commitment against increasingly common hybrid threats. She will work closely with parties within and outside the government. I also mention the strengthening of supplies, transport and logistics on land, at sea and in the air. The medical capacity is also expanded with additional military hospitals and wounded transport in mission areas. This reduces the dependence of international partners. Among other things, there will be a new unit of marines for the protection of the merchant navy. It also improves the operational readiness and availability of fire support and air defense equipment for the short term. At present, the armed forces have too few of these units to sustain long-term missions and support training and exercise. As a result, the pressure on the military of many of these units has been too high over the past year. In addition, NATO is imposing higher demands on the speed of deployment. In order to respond more quickly to crises, NATO has therefore strongly urged the Netherlands in the planning cycle to provide more support itself. With the strengthening of such units, the Netherlands is making a concrete contribution to the elimination of both NATO and EU deficits. These are deficits that NATO and the EU also foresee in the future, so I give Mrs Bruins Slot. She asked me to keep looking forward while we restore operational support. Yes, we will. The accelerated purchase of the MALE UAV is an example of this. I would therefore also like to strengthen these support units as a matter of priority. By the way, that was a choice that was widely shared in the Chamber. I come to speak about the further composition and equipment of the armed forces. As I said, I intend to send the Defence Note to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u24	Madam Minister, I see that Mrs Belhaj would like to ask you a question before you begin the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u25	Yeah, about the last block. I do not know if the Minister is going to answer the questions about the acquisition of the Reapers and how to deal with them if you are going to collect a lot of information that can also be used by other powers. If you're gonna answer those questions, I'm gonna ask you to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u26	In my opinion, we replied in writing. That's in the written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u27	Then that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u28	But you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u29	I do have another question. I understand why the Minister wants to speed up certain purchases, but I also hope that the Minister understands that it is, of course, somewhat confusing, because we are about to receive a Defence Note. Then it becomes visible what the Netherlands is going to focus on. That must be in proportion to what NATO expects. For example, we have said that we are going to provide a team of medical specialists. We also know that there will be a new maritime strategy in 2018. How do we ensure that all these loose puzzles really get together and to what extent is "predestination" hindering? "Inhibiting" may be a bit negative, but is this all going to fall into that whole puzzle of what the Netherlands is going to do in the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u30	A rather large question, but I'm sure the Minister will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u31	I understand the question in such a way that Mrs Belhaj asks whether this fits in with what we will come up with in the strategy. In my view, this is entirely in line with the strategy that we are about to come up with, which we are also going to talk about and which should be reflected in the Defence Note. What we are doing now is putting forward things that have always had to be done, such as fighting support and the fact that it will allow us to operate better. We're not gonna buy anything right now. You can't even do that. Then it doesn't work in January or February either. We're gonna hire things, for example, if it's necessary to buy something to make people work better. That is why I have just mentioned a number of examples that you have read in the letter of amendment. Regardless of the strategy we are coming up with, I will say something about what I heard about it from the Chamber in the first period of time, or else our people simply cannot do their job properly. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u32	If it is intended that the strategy has not yet been devised but has yet to be written and that the Chamber is allowed to discuss it, can I understand why the Minister has promised that no major weapons systems will be purchased at this stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u33	You have seen exactly what we are doing, namely buying these UAVs. That's what we do and we don't do anything else. What is stated in the letter of amendment is completely transparent. That's what we do. I believe that this is also possible, because it fits in with the need for people to be able to do their job properly at the moment and as soon as possible. We just need some of those supportive measures. Everything else comes back in the Defence Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u34	Recapitulating: that seems to me to mean that the priority naturally lies with the staff and the human shortages to close the gaps first and that the Defence Note will indeed, as stated in the coalition agreement, lead the long-term decision-making process on the acquisition and necessity of large weapons systems. This means, for example, that we are not going to buy the JSF or buy the submarines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u35	I am glad that Mrs Karabulut has read the coalition agreement so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u36	I know it by heart!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u37	You know it by heart; you probably know it better than I do. What we're going to develop strategy is in the Defense Note. Then we will also buy large-scale things, but of course there are also a number of routes. You know that as well as I do. We're just gonna continue it, but it's been decided before. There are long-term trajectories that run. They just keep moving. Of course we will see if that fits in with the strategy; we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u38	I note the Minister's continuing. I see that Mr Öztürk is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u39	A sequel to this. Man, the military has the first prioritite for the minister. Does the long-term agreement on resources have any effect on meeting the first needs of the military?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u40	I do not quite understand the question, but at the moment we are meeting the basic need to work on basic tools, combat support and the whole supply to be able to work properly. The Secretary of State will discuss staffing and the whole staffing policy in a more detailed manner. That is certainly our first priority. All other considerations are included in the Defence Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u41	I agree that we first cater for the basic first needs of our military. But on the other hand, there are long-term agreements about the JSF and the submarines. My specific question is whether the necessary resources will affect what the Minister now wants to do with the provision of emergency services to the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u42	The Minister, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u43	There are always long-term appointments. They are also long-term in the planning and budgets of the Defense Department. We have received 1.5 billion in the coalition agreement, and Mr Öztürk has also said something about this, and we have raised 400 million of this and put it in the letter of amendment. We are going to talk about this whole thing and how we look at the future of defence in the first quarter of next year. There is enough to be able to respond to these first priorities. All that has to fit together. That is quite a complicated system; Mrs Karabulut is right in that regard. It always has to fit together. Once again, the Secretary of State will be discussing personnel and equipment in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u44	Follow up on your contribution. Mrs Karabulut, we have agreed that we are doing interrupting in two. You just interrupted. It is a completely different point on which you are now interrupting, while the Minister is dealing with the same subject. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u45	I haven't started another theme yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u46	The Minister also mentioned the Reaper and referred to the written reply. I have a question on that, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u47	If you ask the question, we will see whether it can be answered immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u48	It may also be possible in the second period, but in the written reply on page 12, in reply No. 32 on the directives, the legal framework and other directives that would exist. Is it possible to inform the Chamber about this? Maybe that's already happened, but they're not familiar to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u49	I think so, but I'll come back to it in second place just to be sure. I had arrived at the further composition and equipment of the armed forces. As I said, I intend to send the Defence Note to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018. In the Defence Memorandum, the Secretary of State and I will explain how all the extra money from the government agreement is being spent and what its intended effects are. Replacement and modernisation must go hand in hand. After all, developments in the world do not stand still. Other countries are also developing and using increasingly advanced technologies. In order to stay up to it, Defence must continue to renew, for example with the further strengthening of the cyber and information domain. Things are going very fast there. These capacities are an integral part of modern military action, I say to Mr Belhaj, Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Diks. That must be an essential part of where we are going. In the Defence Note, I will inform the Chamber of the precise plans. Cooperation with other ministries, our international allies and also with industry and the knowledge institutions is not a luxury, but as far as I am concerned, as Mrs Bruins Slot stressed. The Defence Note will provide an integral picture of the entire investment package and thus of the composition and equipment of the armed forces in the coming years. This will take into account the needs of NATO and the EU and the strategic choices of key allies. I say to Mrs Ploumen that the Defence Memorandum will make clear what choices are being made, because choices are needed, that is clear. With EUR 1.5 billion, not everything can be done, and we all know that in the Defense Department. The Defence Memorandum is also being drawn up in good consultation with our colleagues from, among other things, Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security. In reply to Mr Voordewind's questions, I confirm that the note is in line with what I have just said about an interruption in the integrated foreign and security strategy which is also being sent to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say the following about the future composition and equipment of the armed forces. In the changing security situation, the Netherlands needs to be more on its own. Allies expect each other to take responsibility. The United States has also brought this to the attention of European partners on a number of occasions. Europe itself must be able to provide the necessary fighting power and direct and indirect support. That is why this cabinet is a versatile military force, capable of carrying out its constitutional tasks, the starting point, as stated in the coalition agreement. I hope this will reassure Mr Bosman. What exactly this versatile military force will look like, as Mrs Bruins Slot asked, will be outlined in the Defence Note. But, of course, I heard you both. Mr Bosman and Mr Diks, among others, asked about the involvement of the Chamber in the use of funds. I note that the Chamber has now decided to organise two round tables itself in the run-up to the Defence Note. I understood that this morning, at least, after we talked about it yesterday. I also intended to do so, Mr President, because I believe that the route should be handled fairly openly and transparently. We also want to look outside and bring in from the outside. Defence is also organising a few meetings, and perhaps I can talk to you and your clerk about that. I am talking about this with the Atlantic Commission and Clingendael. I would also like to invite the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions to these two talks. I also intended to organise a separate discussion with the members of the Chambers Committee, where the Secretary of State and I and some of the people of Defence would simply listen to what you would like to bring in, however different it may be. Perhaps we can come to some kind of coordination, Mr President, but I suppose that can be done even after this debate. In any case, I propose that we work together to ensure that the various efforts around the Defence Memorandum are mutually reinforcing and that the Secretary of State and I very much want to listen to the ideas that the Chamber and others have. This is how we want to make it an open process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u50	This leads to a question from Mrs Diks. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is actually not so much a question as a thank you for the way in which the ministers looked at the Minister also want to pick this up. Indeed, we agreed at a procedural meeting this morning to see how the Chamber could get closer to this process. I appreciate the way in which the Minister intends to tackle this, namely in cooperation with the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u52	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Then I will ensure that it can also be arranged in the form of joint action. Then we'll just look at your ideas about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u53	But, Madam Minister, Mrs Karabulut still has a question, as it seems. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u54	If everything has to be possible, why is a versatile military force already being chosen? You can also, based on experience, think: we no longer want to fight in the highest spectrum of violence. You can also opt for a more compact military force. Why does the Secretary of State not offer this opportunity as a result of the exercises that are yet to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u55	I'll ask the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u56	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u57	Thank you. You might as well quote from the coalition agreement. This is the task that stands in our direction in the coalition agreement. Mr Bosman and Mrs Bruins Slot have rightly pointed that out and we are going to work on that. You can talk about how and what, and you can also contribute to that, but I am sticking to these texts here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u58	A brief closing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u59	Then what are the substantive arguments to insist on a model that we now have, which we know is squeaking and cracking on all sides and which we also know will only cost us more if it continues to do so with at least questionable results?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u60	In the end, we will have to have that debate together when we write the Defence Note. We have a military force that is functioning well at the moment, but we still have a very large number of things to improve. I just talked to you about it. You can have a different view of that. I'll let you bring that in. We're gonna listen to you, too, if you bring it in. That's a hell of a thing, isn't it? Then we'll see if that'll change our minds, but not now. We're not at that stage yet. If you're coming, I'm gonna go from there. Then you can put that in our direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u61	Follow up on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u62	We will make a concrete agreement on this. Then I come to the control of the use of resources. Let me tell you that the budget, the supplementary budgets and the annual report are already accounted for. The ADR monitors this process and reports on it annually. As far as I'm concerned, we should keep doing this a little bit. In this context, I would like to discuss with you shortly whether all the reporting obligations that exist can not be reduced a bit without you being able to reduce your task. I hope that will lead to the opposite. As you know, I've only been watching it for four weeks, along with the Secretary of State. Looking at myself, I think that because of that huge amount, there's too little focus on what it's really about. I would like to discuss this with you and set it up in a roll-on manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u63	That roll resistance is that the Chamber controls. That is a task that we must carry out very well. This is, of course, the moment when for the first time in 20 years, the Defense Department is going to invest again. That's absolutely necessary. As a Chamber, we must be able to see clearly: what is it invested in, how is the investment going, we are lagging behind and there are certain bottlenecks? I would like to know if the Minister can give us a good and clear answer so that we can fulfil our role properly. I think it is important for us to be able to see how we can do this clearly from the point of view of zero, on which we are now sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u64	I am happy to talk to you about this point. I've only been looking at it myself these four weeks. It's not even quite four weeks, if you see how much time I've had to look at it. I have seen that there is a huge amount of reports and such. In my opinion, that is also my way of looking at my previous lives, which does not make it easier for people's representatives to control. I'd like to look at a way that makes it easier. Mrs. Diks also has her past on the board. Perhaps she would like to ask the same type of question. I'm willing to think about it with you and see if there's any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u65	I also see that it is important to report clearly and to reduce what we are now getting too much on paper. I think it is important to work on a workable dashboard where the "keep it simple and stupid" is done. It would be nice if we could get a definition of this in the Defence Memorandum and perhaps get a closer understanding of it in the discussions we are going to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u66	I think that's fine. I am quite prepared to see at that moment whether we can have a slightly simpler idea, so that you can follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u67	Then we'll go on to Mrs. Diks, because she didn't have a question but she did now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u68	No, actually, it's more of a comment. In my first speech yesterday, I said that I would appreciate it if we were properly informed, but not buried under paper. The punch line of that information and the reports that, of course, have to come our way from the Ministry is that we can send them, all of us. In that search you will find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u69	I think exactly the same thing as Mrs Diks says. We both have our experiences of being buried in piles of paper in our previous lives. I do not think that is the point at the end of the day. The point is that the Chamber can steer the right points and look after the right things. We'll talk about that later. I am quite prepared to take this on board to think about it myself and then to discuss it with the Chamber. Let's make a deal like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u70	Follow up on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u71	I was with the manners, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the adaptive force, international cooperation, knowledge and innovation and security during missions. Mr President, I shall begin with the adaptive force. Only an adaptive force can respond in a timely and effective manner to rapid developments in uncertain times. This awareness forces other ways of working at the Department of Defense itself. We must focus on cooperation, on continuous renewal and on manoeuvrability, because the Netherlands must be able to rely on the fact that Defence also takes into account unpredictable and variable circumstances. Mr President, then international cooperation. Defense hasn't been a national matter for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u72	Minister, Mrs Ploumen would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u73	I saw her sprint, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u74	Yeah, I thought the minister would be working on that block for a while, but he wasn't. There is, of course, little against the senses expressed by the Minister about cooperation, manoeuvrability and flexibility. The question is, of course, how exactly is this to be completed. If there is to be more and better cooperation, how will this take shape and how will the Minister and the Secretary of State send them? Because it is not enough in any organization to advocate cooperation, as the experience teaches, to actually realize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u75	I do not quite understand what Mrs Ploumen would like to hear, but let me answer as follows. Of course, only promoting cooperation is never enough to ultimately achieve it in an organization. If that's what you want to hear, you're right. There's always a need to be sent to that. It is always necessary to see in which constellation you can do something best or not. In any case, I will come to the story of international cooperation, where it is also about cooperation and where you will see what you can do best. Of course, you'll have to send for that, too. In the official and administrative sense, you need to send it to see if there is a useful partner at any time or not. So, if that's what you're saying, I think it's a normal job for a supervisor and a driver to take care of that. If you mean anything else, please explain your question to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u76	I do. The more vague the Minister's wording, the more vague the questions may become. You spoke of cooperation. I understand, let me put it this way, as cooperation within the Defence Department, between the military components and within the armed forces, because you are about to talk about international cooperation. Of course, we have heard many times that it is sometimes difficult to operate effectively within the organisation, because people think too much in silos, columns or whatever. I would like to hear a more precise intervention from the Minister. Does she recognize that problem? Is that what she means? And what's she gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u77	I recognize that problem in itself. In all organizations that work in columns, in sectors or otherwise, it's always about the horizontal side and whether you get the right steering information up. Part of that also has to do with the culture story that we stand for together in the Defense Department. I must honestly say that in these first few weeks I have not yet gotten to think about this point in more detail and to talk to the organisation. But if your question is whether something should happen in the sense that we need to see if the good things happen, whether good things come up and whether they need to be properly controlled, then that is clear. We also consider this to be one of the priorities to work on in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u78	Follow up on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u79	Then I was in international cooperation. Defense hasn't been a national matter for a long time. I told you. International cooperation is also important for our security and that of our allies and partners in the context of the adaptive force. Mr Popken, Mr Diks and Mr Belhaj also underlined this. The threats are too complex and comprehensive to be able to cope independently. So in everything that Defense does, we work with partners. We are continuing this cooperation with all our strength, because, as far as I am concerned, cooperation creates opportunities and is more effective and effective in the international context, I would say in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. We carry out all missions to which we contribute in cooperation with other countries. Joint training and performance is therefore increasingly important. Then it helps if we speak each other's language literally and figuratively. We ensure that means of communication and material are aligned, that we know and understand each other's way of acting. We will therefore deepen and broaden international cooperation on these issues in the coming cabinet period. As far as we are concerned, cooperation at international level is the norm. But cooperation also brings with it obligations and expectations. Other countries expect from the Netherlands to contribute to missions and major investment projects, even if it is just as convenient for us. That is what we must realise. At these very moments, the Netherlands can prove to be a reliable ally. That is why, ten days ago, Minister Zijlstra and I signed the agreements for more European cooperation, the permanent structured cooperation, which I discussed with your Chamber in general consultation, abbreviated PESCO. By the way, I still have to get used to abbreviations in the Defense Department. We did this together with 23 other countries. Mrs Belhaj specifically asked me how I experienced Brussels. I have experienced the days in Brussels as a support to really work on this with each other. But it also demands something from us. In the field of development, procurement, innovation, missions and operations, the European Union's leaders will work more closely together. The European Commission is also making money available for this. This can bring a lot of benefits to the Defense Department, but also to the Dutch industry and science. Mr. Chairman. I come to knowledge and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u80	Minister, before you do, Mrs. Bruins Slot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u81	The Minister is right to say that cooperation with other countries also creates obligations. In the debate, we and Mr Dijkgraaf have said that NATO has a desire that we should eventually return to the 2% standard. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u82	I was going to come back to Mr Dijkgraaf's question at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u83	Mr Dijkgraaf is also watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u84	Shall I do that passage here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u85	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u86	That might make it a little easier, because you're both here. As I have already said, I regard this coalition agreement with the massive investments in defence as a good start to a very nice and challenging path to work towards the future, which we are happy to begin with. I specifically said "a good start." I also intended to give this to Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Dijkgraaf, because, given the agreements made in NATO and the EU on the further increase in the defence budget in the light of the NATO guideline of 2% of gross domestic product, we obviously still have something to do. In reply to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot I know that she asked me to say that the Netherlands is now in any case in compliance with the agreements made in Wales and ratified in Warsaw. I say this with emphasis, because it is sometimes thought that we do not comply with it. That is what we are fulfilling because we are growing. However, as Mr Dijkgraaf also argues, the strengthening of defence is a long-term project, both in terms of staff and equipment and in the way in which it works, as you put it next to it. Long-term political support is necessary in order to continue to grow. If that is what you want to achieve at this economic time, it will, as far as I am concerned, take longer than my ministerial or any other ministership. I would also like to put that back to your Chamber, if you will allow me, because the Chamber also has an important role to play in this. Mr Dijkgraaf rightly said that. You must also dare to think and do things in long lines. That is what I wanted to say at this point. I'll put that right in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u87	That's fine. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, because his name has been mentioned so often in this context. Then I'll come to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u88	It is good that the Minister stresses that it is not only the role of the government but also of the Chamber. The Chamber should work together if we say that a long-term perspective is necessary. I will table a motion for that in the second term. In recent years, we have seen that the Cabinet and the Chamber had the courage to take additional steps for the Defense Department if there was room for it. Suppose there's more room in this cabinet period, then I suppose the Minister won't mind if that happens again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u89	If that happens, of course I won't mind. I tried to emphasize in my story that we are now taking a really big step when you look at where we come from. I await Mr Dijkgraaf's motion with interest in second term. I also tried to stress that we both have to think in long lines. It's not always obvious. We have to look beyond our ministerial powers, we will think about that together, but the Chamber must also have the courage to think long-term. I'm glad you confirm that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u90	The interesting thing is that we do do so with other very important tasks, such as rail and road transport and the dikes. For this we all have systems to guarantee that we can invest for a long time. Even with care, we have automatic mechanisms, so that the budget goes up if it is really needed. Especially in defence, a core task of the government, we don't have it. Does the Minister intend to take up this challenge, so that the defence industry will be less dependent on the economic and political tide? I don't know exactly how yet. We're gonna have to think about that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u91	I'm sure I can see that challenge. I know the systems mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf relatively well from previous lives. I also know the mechanisms that are in it. I see that challenge, but I don't know exactly how to do it. From what we are doing here, I cannot say much more about it myself. It seems very good to me to think about this with the Chamber in long-term ideas, but I will wait for the motion and your second term first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u92	Mrs Karabulut also has an interruption on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u93	May I ask the Minister why 2%? Why should we, if it is up to a large part of this Chamber, be a country and a world, because that is where NATO is going to have to spend more and more on arms and arms? Does more armament mean more security? Why not 1%? Why not 3%? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u94	We've agreed on a standard that we're working towards. That is the answer to the question why we are doing this. I do not see the causality between all the things you are referring to, but it may require a different debate on how you make these causal links. You ask why? Because we have to be a reliable partner. We also need to invest extra because we cannot always rely on the help of others. We must also be able to invest ourselves in the peace and security of our country. You can also see that the situation in the world around us, including at the edges of Europe, is not going to be safer. We've talked about that before. Either you look at the east or the south side; it hasn't become safer on it in recent years. This means that we must be able to stop our pants to a large extent, because we cannot always rely on our allies. Those are the questions that lie ahead. At the beginning of my story, I already said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u95	Would you like to finish with a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u96	At the moment, I am told that 1 700 billion is being spent on weapons, and that is growing. The world is also becoming more unsafe by, for example, NATO starting all kinds of interventions, up to illegal wars. That brings us more terrorism. Perhaps it is an idea that the Minister is thinking about how to make our country safer first. Is our country going to be safer by making more interventions in all kinds of distant countries, which we know we cannot bring about democracy there, but which we know is causing instability that terrorist groups are responding to? Otherwise, it is blindly pursuing the strategy that we have seen over the last 16 years that has brought us more insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u97	I do not share Mrs Karabulut's analysis at all. I think it's too far to go over that in detail, but I just don't share it the way she puts it. What I do share is that we must, of course, always look at how we can achieve our own security. There is no misunderstanding about that at all, because in the context of the 'what are we to do on earth' question, this remains a priority for the defence sector. We stand for our alliance commitment. I certainly do not share all the connections Mrs Karabulut has made, but I would be happy to discuss with her in the context of the Defence Paper how we are now in the Defence Organisation towards the future, how we should look at modernisation and how we look at the world that is changing around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u98	However, I would like to check something in response to the SP's plea to ensure, above all, our national security. That sounded a bit like what Mrs Popken said earlier, namely that it should be done in a different way. Can the Minister just stress that the best way to guarantee our national security is to work with others, and so is to ensure that this solidarity means that such a small country as the Netherlands is ultimately protected by others when we are attacked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u99	No, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u100	I just want to say that if Mrs Belhaj has any questions for me, she should do so in my term and otherwise not put words or interpretations in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u101	I think that is a good suggestion, but we are not going to have a discussion here. We hold the second-term discussion as colleagues among ourselves, but I have heard Mrs Belhaj put a question to the Minister. As chairman, I note that and ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u102	I answered Mrs Pokpen's question at the beginning of my story. I have explained to Mrs Agema that the vast majority of the budget is of course spent on the Netherlands, but that we are working together only to ensure total safety. I answered the question, but I would like to do it again, Mr President. Here's to it. In the meantime, I've come to knowledge and innovation, because that's where I came in. Knowledge and innovation are indispensable elements in a Dutch armed force that can cope with technologically high-quality opponents. I therefore share the importance that Mr Belhaj and Mr Bruins Slot attach to knowledge and innovation. However, we must realise that opponents are constantly renewing and strengthening themselves. We, too, must continue to innovate and invest in knowledge in order to remain in control of the opponent as a military force; that is what matters in the end. That's what we have to do. I will therefore send a new innovation strategy to the Chamber in addition to the Defence Note. I will look into the policy and the corresponding budget for the coming years. Then hopefully we can address all the points you have raised. I hope that it will be feasible to do so in the first half of 2018. Then we can talk about that further. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come up...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u103	If you will be patient, before you start with the following theme: there is a question from Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u104	I was curious to see whether the Minister also takes European cooperation into account in this innovation strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u105	Sure, it always has to be. That is why I preceded the European passage. I said that cooperation is the norm. In this area, too, this will be the norm, as well as cooperation with others, with knowledge institutions and so on, as Mrs Bruins Slot said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u106	Has Mrs Diks' question been answered? That's the case. Then we come to Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u107	Thank you for this clear answer. It is good that this is reflected in a separate innovation strategy. In her answer to the question in the bundle of answers and questions, the Minister indeed writes that there is an extra budget. That makes a human being curious, because that means that more resources are going to go there. Any word on how much that's gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u108	No. We are going to invest more in that, but we will take that into account and we will talk to you about that. I can't tell you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u109	I assume that the Defence Memorandum will also have a supplementary budget or a letter of amendment; I do not know what form will be chosen. That's where this is taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u110	If we need to invest more and get the money from an additional item, for example, we need to do so. In any case, that applies to everything in the supplementary post. The Defence Note is in charge of this. Maybe it's good to say that right now. That note is the starting point for calling on the additional item that is still in the Treasury's hands. The funds will then be transferred to the Defence budget. That's where this is gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u111	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u112	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with one of my last blocks: security during missions. In the coming weeks, we will discuss this in general further in the Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, there can be no doubt about the security of our military on mission. The same applies to health care, I say just like Mr Diks and Mr Dijkgraaf, who started doing so in their first term. Prior to the upcoming AO's on the extension of the missions, in which we will be discussing each other in detail, we have also written on this subject. Hopefully this week you will be informed in writing about all the questions you have asked in this area. I'm assuming we can settle this for tomorrow night. Next Monday, the briefings will be here in the Chamber. It informs you about the most important aspects. You can rest assured that I remain extremely alert on these aspects. I shall, of course, continue to discuss this with you when we talk about the missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u113	This leads to a number of questions. Mr Voordewind arrived later at the interrupting microphones, but I saw him get up earlier, so Mr Voordewind may be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u114	The law of inhibiting head start, so to speak. Thank you to the Minister for replying. In my first term, I asked a question about the review framework. Now, Foreign Affairs is the first to discuss the review framework, but it is of course crucial to include these aspects in the progress reports and the Article 100 letters, where Defence should provide this information. Is the Minister prepared to look together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see whether it is possible to include these matters in structural terms, security of military personnel and medical care as criteria for the Article 100 letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u115	I'll take a look at it. First there are the briefings on Monday. You will be informed in detail about what we have done now, what we are going to do and how we look at it as an explanation of what is now contained in the Article 100 letters. Of course, I'm always willing to look at that further, but I need to think about what that means. I shall come back to that in the second term, if necessary. Otherwise, I would like to answer this in writing. No, we already have. Look! I see we answered it in writing. I'll take a look at that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u116	Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u117	As a Member of Parliament, of course, I have read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u118	Very neat, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u119	But I had a specific question about the review framework. The written answers say: we're going to look at that. I'm gonna ask you this separately from the ongoing missions. I am concerned that we can ensure this more structurally in the Article 100 letters and the progress reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u120	Then I did not quite understand your question in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u121	It doesn't matter. That's why I'm here. The question is whether the Minister, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is prepared to see if we can put this in brackets in future when it comes to safety and medical care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u122	I'm willing to look at it, but I don't know what that means yet. I am prepared to look into it and I will discuss it with you, but I do not know what that means at the moment, apart from what we have replied in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u123	Let's move on to Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u124	My question is about the ongoing missions. The General Court writes that the Ministry has problems, both in terms of equipment and personnel. The intensive engagement in missions also has negative consequences for the deployment of the armed forces. She explicitly asks us to understand the consequences of the deployment of missions for the rest of the armed forces. Is the Minister prepared to make these consequences clear in the supplementary letters we are still receiving for the debates on the extension of missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u125	I don't think that's possible. I think this is just going to be dealt with in the Defence Note, because this is related to the whole readiness test. We'll discuss that in the Defence Note. You are now adding a whole dossier to the discussion of Article 100 letters. That is not the intention, of course. In dealing with Article 100, we are discussing the extension of missions and the question of whether this can be done properly and in a good way. The other side will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u126	Mrs. Karabulut, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u127	I'm not adding a new element. I would add an element on which we should be able to see. The Court of Auditors also says that this simply did not go well and that it should do better. In other words, you can bet on anything and everything, but if the tasks here are neglected or there is a very big attack on the rest of the organisation, then it may be relevant and necessary to know. Perhaps that is not the case for the Minister, but it is for political groups, for the Chamber, for the representative of the people who is responsible for controlling the Minister and who is ultimately responsible for overall security and for the entire Defence Organisation. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u128	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u129	That's really something else. That is not what we are going to send to the Chamber for the discussions, because that is the interdepartmental policy investigation into readiness. That's not gonna happen. You must be able to trust that what is happening is happening properly and safely, and that we can also arrange it. That's what the conversation is about, and that's what the briefings are about next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u130	In my first term, I had asked about the fact that the storage of antitank munitions and smoke grenades was found to be unsafe. I don't know if the Secretary of State will come back to that. The health care in Kidal, its re-examination, is not yet complete either. I understand that the Minister says that the information is coming to the Chamber soon, but I would almost say that that is in ten minutes, so to speak, because those technical briefings are of course Monday. We've been waiting for those letters for weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u131	The information will be in the Chamber no later than tomorrow afternoon. These are all points of discussion that are discussed in the AO's, after the technical briefings. As far as Kidal is concerned, we have not yet received an answer to this question; we are still waiting for a written reply from the UN in black and white that there is a medical helicopter that is going to fly at the moment we need it. There is a helicopter. It's been there since September, but the point is that it's going to fly and it's going to be there in 20 minutes. I'm waiting for us to get that black-and-white. Then we will send the information to you with the State Department. That's tomorrow afternoon at the latest. Those answers can be read all weekend. On Monday there will be the briefings of the State Department and the Department of Defense together. Then there are the AOs in which we are going to talk about these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u132	Mrs Diks, concluding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u133	I do have one more comment. For the sake of clarity, in the debate on the OVV report, healthcare was really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u134	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u135	We asked for that information weeks ago. I understand you're saying I'll send that information tomorrow, and you'll have all weekend. That is, of course, true, but you also understand that you are putting a little bit of the knife on our throats. I'm gonna give you this for the road. At the moment that it is clear that those helicopters are there, but that only fly on Gao and not on Kidal, you will meet a problem with the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u136	Minister, may I make one comment? I understand that this is the kind of issue that is also being discussed in the Foreign Affairs Article 100 procedure. I'm just running the order, but I want to keep us from getting into all kinds of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u137	That's what I was just trying to say, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna talk a lot about this topic, B.A. and D.O.D. Together. We'll do these letters together. Of course, it has not escaped me, and I share that, that these are important issues. We will indicate our view in the briefings. We are new; this applies to us as directors, but also to the CDS. I have said publicly to Mrs Diks that I am not in favour of going out in Kidal if the medical side, being the helicopter and otherwise, is not settled. Of course, I have that in mind. My idea was that this was not the subject of debate here, but of the debate after the briefings. In the briefings, we're going to explain exactly how we looked at that. That's why we've done everything we can. Our sg went to Vancouver to talk to the UN to have the signature on the helicopter black and white, but I don't have it at the moment, I hope to have it by tomorrow. Then it goes into the room in one set. I think that the Chamber is quite capable of taking all that up on the weekends to arrive on Monday well-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u138	The subject of discussion is now the budget. You've had your turn twice, Mrs. Diks. I can already see Mrs Karabulut, and I'm sure more people will come to me after that to enforce a third term in the question. The only way to maintain my authority here is not to allow it to you now. I would therefore say to Mrs Karabulut that she has already been on this subject. If we agree that we are doing interruptions in two, then she must have found a new subject in the minister's sub-block. I'll take that challenge to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u139	I don't mean to be annoying, but I have that. But first I have a point of order. Will the Minister be returning to individual questions? On this point, the mission in Mali, I have one important political question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u140	First, let's do the point of order. Will the Minister come back to individual questions, as you have asked them, but perhaps others too? That answer could be "yes" or "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u141	I'm done with this block, but I don't really have what kind of individual question this should be. So I can't quite say whether the Secretary of State will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u142	Then, as your chairman, I suggest that when the Minister is ready, I look at you and ask you if you miss one more question in that regard. The Secretary of State will then be able to reply if that comes back in her speech, or else I will ask the Minister to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u143	Otherwise, it'll come back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u144	That is possible, but I can also put the question briefly, because it is in line with the previous question. I'll leave it to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u145	I would prefer you to ask the question you've detected in the sub-block you've already interrupted about. So that's the new theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u146	The minister's talking about the helicopter. The OVV report was also very sharp about the lack of the role 2-medical supply. He wasn't in order. Are you in favour of the OVV conclusions or are you in favour of the comments made by the previous Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u147	This, too, I've seen. Of course, we've all read that O.V.V. report. The conclusions will be reached successfully in the technical briefings. In it, the way we look at it will be transferred. This is really a subject of debate in these AO's. So we will demonstrate successfully what we have done to everything in the OVV report. This is reflected in the technical briefings. We'll talk about that in the AO. But, of course, I've seen that very well. We will also explain what we have done on the hospital side, with the OVV conclusions clearly in mind. But I have the feeling that that is really a different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u148	Quite frankly, I have that impression too. You would like to ask a question now, Mrs Karabulut, but I would also like to watch the time. Very briefly, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u149	Does the Minister support the OVV report with all its conclusions, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u150	Am I following the conclusions? That's what we need to look at. Of course, we got a good look at them and we got them, too. We will explain how we have taken up these conclusions. We'll show you that on Monday, and we'll talk about that in the AO's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u151	I would now like to ask Mrs Ploumen a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u152	The Minister briefly mentioned the subject of the CDS, the commander of the armed forces. Since she is at the end of her speech and she herself plays a prominent role in the event I would like to address, I would ask her the following question. Last Saturday there was an introductory interview with the minister in De Telegraaf. It also indicated that, despite the fact that resources have been added, choices will have to be made. The money does not grow on trees, and there is also something like a strategy. I could very much agree with that. But now I believe that the newly appointed CDS on Sunday seemed to take a different position. Would the Minister clarify that? Because it doesn't make it any easier for the Chamber if there are different messages coming our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u153	Well, just so I know, I've answered this question. I also checked to see if Mrs Ploumen was there, but she wasn't there. Let me read the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u154	Oh, you answered it? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u155	I said: "I agree with Mrs Ploumen that the Defence Memorandum will make clear what choices are being made, because choices are needed, that is clear. With one and a half billion euros, we can't do everything. We all know that in the Defense Department." That was the answer. That means all of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u156	Mrs Ploumen's follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u157	Mr President, I do not have a follow-up question, because this is the answer I would like to hear. So that's how we'll look at it. Excuse the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u158	Then we come to Mrs Bruins Slot, who also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u159	I asked another question about the control model. I do have the question first whether the Minister will answer it or the Secretary of State. Who's gonna come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u160	A general control model?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u161	Maybe I can explain it to you just to make it clear. The CDA has, of course, been saying for years that the control model is too centralistic and too bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u162	That's what the Secretary of State does. If that's what you're talking about, the Secretary of State will discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u163	Then I suggest that the Minister continue with her speech. In the end, we will come to the conclusion of the Minister. I would also like to take stock of whether individual questions have been answered, and I would like to say specifically to Mrs Karabulut. That's what we inventory first to see if they're not with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u164	Yes, I was at the last block. The Secretary of State will soon discuss the great importance we attach to an organisation in which safe work can be done, both physically and socially. She will explain that as well. Then I get to the lock, because I'm skipping the NATO part, which I just pulled out separately. This cabinet invests heavily in Defense and sees the need to do so, just as the Chamber is happy to do so. We're gonna put our backs to it and realize the necessary reinforcements. That must be the focus of attention now, and that will be the focus of our attention. There is a need for urgency, because there are problems at a time when the world around us has not become safer. But realism is also important. This is in line with the last point I had with Mrs Ploumen. We do not buy the many capacities that need to be replaced in a supermarket where all the products are ready-to-use in shelves. It may be trajectories of many years to come. I therefore ask for your understanding and support. Perhaps even more important is that I ask for understanding and support from the many employees who are jumping over the new stuff. If I look further, I have one more point I should like to clarify. I have outlined throughout my entire story what I intend to do over the next four years, which I will focus on and which we will focus on together. I owe one more answer, and that is to Mrs Diks' question. The Secretary of State and I each have a nice wallet. She asked for that, so we're going to answer that as well. We do our challenging job together and strive to work optimally together and to avoid official breeding. I thought that was the background to your question. For example, I feel as responsible for the staff as the Secretary of State, and that is why I will be doing the veterans' policy myself. While the Secretary of State has specific responsibilities in the area of staffing and management, I will focus on cultural aspects in governance and organisation, about which a question has just been asked. The Secretary of State will be responsible for international material cooperation. This has many similarities with international cooperation in NATO, the EU and the UN, and that is another key element of my work, and I can go on for a while. We've divided the tasks, but we'll do it together. We are in this together, Mr President, and I would therefore like to give the floor to the Secretary of State, if you will allow it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u165	I think we're gonna get there soon, too. Before I give Mrs Karabulut the opportunity to mention which question was still open in her mind, I would remind colleagues that the Secretary of State will specifically talk about safe working environment, maintenance and recruitment of staff, well-maintained equipment, and finally a few final words. Do you think, Mrs Karabulut, that your question fits in or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u166	I don't think so, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u167	Then it is your turn to ask the Minister the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u168	I welcome the answer to the question of who is in charge now, although it was a bit cryptic; the Commander of the Armed Forces or the Minister. The Minister has made it clear that she is the boss. She also stands for the staff. We all are. My first question was whether it also distanced itself from the words of the Commander of the Armed Forces, right after he took office, in Roosendaal, that you do war by definition in a situation of shortages. That was right after the personnel had experienced the situation in Mali and after the commandos indicated that they could no longer go through with it. Removing these deficits is something of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u169	I don't know the pronunciation, and I don't know the context, so that always makes it complicated. What I can say is that delays need to be eliminated. I've explained that in my whole story. That's the context we come from. I am extremely pleased, as Mr Bosman also outlined in my opinion, that we are now entering a phase of reinforcement, that we can invest and that hopefully we have eliminated a lot of backlogs as soon as possible, so that we can work in a good and safe way, wherever we work at Defense, in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the world. That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u170	You don't have to ask any follow-up questions, but you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u171	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u172	Fine. Mrs Ploumen would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u173	I want to ask you another question about Eygelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u174	That's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u175	That's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u176	Okay, well, I'll just keep that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u177	That's good. Then perhaps we will see you again shortly, unless the Secretary of State gives you the answer in her speech. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I wanted to take you all in a domestic message. I don't know if I can suggest that or just decide, but I'll do the latter. We will have a dinner break after the Secretary of State has made her contribution. That also enables you all to prepare your second term. Madam Secretary of State, may I give you the floor to answer the questions put to you by colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u178	Of course, Mr. Chairman. The chair has also gone up a bit; then I am a bit more comfortable. It is good to see you in this room now. A week ago, during the legislative consultation, we discussed the future of Defence with staff: what is needed and what challenges are there? There's a lot of them. The Minister has already indicated how we intend to implement this in the coming period along the lines of people, resources and ways. In my contribution, I will go into this more specifically, as you have just pointed out, Mr President, through the points of a safe working environment, the preservation and recruitment of staff, with regard to the people, and good and maintained equipment, with regard to the resources. I will start with the first point, which we spoke about last week during the legislative consultation staff: a safe working environment. As far as I am concerned, it is one of the main priorities of both of us to work on this in the coming period. I am referring to both physical safety and social security. A number of questions were asked yesterday, almost by all of you. People who want to work in the Defense Department must feel safe to be who they want to be and must address things that are wrong; let that be very clear. In response to questions from, for example, Mr Diks, Mr Voordewind, Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut, last week we spoke specifically about Schaarsbergen. I repeat it here in the House too: what happened there is unacceptable and Defense unworthy. That's not what the DOD stands for. You see, the DOD protects what's dear to us. Not only externally, but also within the organisation, we must ensure that our people feel safe. We do so with values, such as respect for yourself and for each other, care for each other, look after another and take good care of the material. These are essential values within the Defense Department, which we must always promote. Whether you start with the KMA with your introduction period, or you start practicing anywhere in the world, or you are deployed in a mission area: that's what we stand for. If people behave misbehaved, I say this to Mr Bosman, after all, they do not belong to the Defense Department anymore. We will ensure that, because we will not hesitate to fire those people. As I have announced, an external committee is to be set up. I sent a letter yesterday stating that that committee has now started work. I won't repeat all the names, but that committee is headed by Professor Dr. Giebels. The committee is preparing a plan of action. In doing so, she looks at how the factual investigation into Schaarsbergen itself can be carried out and whether the household investigations at Defense Department have been sufficient, for example, for Mrs Bruins Slot. That is also an essential part of the research. As far as I am concerned, the most important questions are: what is the willingness to report, how has the reporting system been set up and what is the follow-up for victims? The committee will look at these three elements and make recommendations for them. I promised earlier, in my letter, that this would include the question of how we deal with the hotline. We've organized it within the DOD now, but we'll see if we can do it better. If there are recommendations, we will, of course, also apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u179	Madam Secretary of State, I see that Mr Bosman wishes to put a question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u180	The Secretary of State mentioned the household investigations, but what happened didn't really fit in with a domestic investigation. Of course, the question is whether these household investigations have been carried out and whether they have been done carefully, but is this also relevant to whether this has been part of a domestic investigation or whether it has fallen outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u181	The question you are asking is really about Schaarsbergen himself. That's where the fact-finding is taking place. So that's what I want to investigate. I also have to tell you that there has been a report at the D.A.'s office. We will have to take that into account and take a look at it, but we have given the order to the committee. It is precisely because it is an external, independent committee that we want to give it the opportunity to come up with a plan of action to see how it intends to do so. Let me be clear that the way in which we do this and the question of whether the penalties are sufficient, so I understood the question yesterday. It will be examined whether this is good, sufficient and adequate or whether other things are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u182	I'll cut it loose. Okay, that happened in the past and we need to learn from it, but now there is a zero moment, where we look to the future and say, "Wait a minute, nice that you want to do housework and draw all kinds of conclusions, but the essence is that this belongs to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Is that going to be a bit of a line or are you waiting for the tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u183	This kind of thing, like what happened in Schaarsbergen, just belongs in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u184	It is good that the Secretary of State takes such a firm position. She did that before, by the way. I did ask a few specific questions. Of course I very much agree with what she says, but of course she has also seen that there is a long series of events that we can no longer call incidents. I asked her where it says that hazing is forbidden. Where can we find that, how are people informed? Everything I read and hear is arranged under the heading "hazing." Just saying that it is forbidden is not enough, as far as I am concerned. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u185	I had not yet received the answer to all the questions in this area. I would like to give the following to Mrs Ploumen. If this was only a matter of the denominator "hazing" and we say that it is not there and that it has been solved, then that is precisely the problem, because hazing is not allowed within the Defense Department. However, there is talk of initiation rituals. They are there to ensure that values, such as respect for yourself and for each other, honor, ensure that you look after another, in a very beautiful way, so that you look back on them with a positive feeling. Those rituals are completely prescribed. They're just regulated to make sure you don't get anything weird. For example, there must always be supervision and there must be no booze. That's all prescribed. It is precisely for this reason that it is prescribed, and that is why hazing should not be allowed: there are no procedures for that. I think Mrs Ploumen shares that with me, we have exchanged this in the debate, and I do not care when such behaviour occurs. Whether it's during academy time, on exercise or during a mission: this just can't be done. We have to make sure of that. That was the question. Culture is a very important aspect that first of all ensures that people address each other. It also makes the commander see what happens within his battalion and what he can do about it. If anything goes wrong, he's gonna have to talk to people right away. Care must be taken to ensure that there are trusted persons or mental caregivers, so that it is easy for people to go there if they have problems. They need to know who they should be with, they need to be referred to the right people. All this has to do with culture. For this reason, the willingness to report is involved in the investigation. Mrs Belhaj had specifically asked in her motion to look into whether or not there are any elements of a culture of fear in it. We have instructed the external committee to see what is possible in this and what we can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u186	Finalizing, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u187	The Secretary of State and I and everyone in this Chamber want the same thing. We want this to stop. If something isn't described in a procedure, it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. It would therefore be a good idea not only to regulate the good, but also to write very clearly and clearly to everyone that what we mean by the degreen is not appropriate. That is what I would like to consider to the Secretary of State. Because of the lack of distance within the culture of some people, this culture acts as an alibi for behaviour that we all do not want. Where can I find that: can't hazing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u188	This is about behavior. I indicated in the legislative consultation that we have a code of conduct. That code of conduct is pretty clear. It contains elements as I just described: behaviors that simply cannot be accepted from one another. That's what we talk to people about. I also told Mrs Ploumen in the legislative consultation that on the one hand we have the external committee which we have given a number of tasks and which is now working on a plan of action. On the other hand, it does not relieve us of the task of dealing with a number of issues internally within the Defence Organisation. That's about adjusting a number of things, like the arrangement we had on the deployment of a minutest. That was a specific case. But the most important thing is that the coming period is to talk to the people about the code of conduct in all service areas in order to see what can be done even better. It looks at what you can put even better into it and how you can pick things up with each other. Those two routes are simply running, because we think this is important. This isn't yours, it's mine. It's the entire Defense Organization. That's what we're talking to people about, and I'm calling in cases. The minister just did. The more reports, the better. Not because we want this behavior, but only then can we get to work. So we're gonna call everyone in to report it. If we don't know, we can't get to work. We want to know exactly what is going on and we want to pick up the problems so that we can move on. I don't think it's gonna help anyone if they come forward like this. On the contrary, we need everyone in the coming period to work in the Defense Department and ensure that our country remains safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u189	This is a good time. I just had the impression that you would come back to that later, Madam Secretary of State. I just want to prevent us from having the same debate twice. I see a number of colleagues coming forward to interrupt. Have you finished the story on this point? Otherwise you may do so first and then answer the questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u190	No, I wasn't finished, but I don't know if there are any specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u191	I don't know. I'm just trying to conduct it chronologically. But if that doesn't work, it won't. I have therefore lost sight of which of my colleagues was the first to arrive, but I think that was Mrs Diks. Mrs Diks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the kindness, of course. Last week I tabled a motion on a zero tolerance policy in initiation rituals at the time of sexual abuse and humiliation. That motion was rejected by the majority of the Chamber. Of course, I was surprised. Perhaps you could repeat what the zero-tolerance policy means in the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u193	That the motion is denied, that's not up to me. I gave my opinion and that was that the motion was superfluous because this is the line within the Defense Department. We believe that this cannot be done and that action should be taken. And if that doesn't happen, people need to be addressed to it. I expect the commanders, who play an essential role in this, to take up this responsibility. They can't do that alone, but they have to do it with everyone who's under them. It starts with "practical what you preach." They must radiate with each other at the top, but also in the organisation itself, and say: this cannot be done! That's what you need to discuss. Unfortunately, there will still be reports coming out in the near future. On the one hand, that is good, because it becomes transparent. But it does mean a long time, it means culture and it means making it discussable with each other and making each other responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u194	It's clear to me. The Secretary of State stated several times during the legislative consultation and again this afternoon: it is not possible and it is not allowed. The big problem that a number of parties in the Chamber have with this is that it does happen. What are you doing at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning? How can you stop it from happening today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u195	I'll never be able to stop it. All I can do is make sure that a safe working environment and atmosphere is created and that, if something like that happens, people come forward immediately. In an organization of more than 50,000 people, I can never guarantee that nothing will ever happen again, now, in the past or in the future: that is simply not possible. They're people, so something always happens. All I can do, together with the Minister and with the entire Defence Organisation, is say in the coming period that we no longer want this and that this is unacceptable. When things like this happen, you need to feel safe and not anxious because it might harm your career in the future. You need to be able to ring the bell right away and then be heard. If something has happened, you must be given adequate aftercare and taken seriously. That's what I want to do, and that's what I want to do. So that's not saying it now and thinking it's gonna be settled tomorrow. It's exactly what you're saying: tomorrow you're gonna have to repeat it again, Monday you're gonna have to repeat it again and Tuesday you're gonna have to repeat it again. Everywhere I go, I also ask this question: what have you done and what should we do better? I will have to continue to do so, but whoever comes to this position after me will have to continue to do so, because it is a long-term matter. We must internalise and promote the code of conduct. That's what we have to do with each other. I think that is important because we do not want this to happen. Mrs Ploumen said that and so did you. I also think it is a political statement, as I have also understood the legislative consultation that you all said: this is one of the most important tasks for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u196	I fully agree with the Secretary of State. However, as a result of the motion tabled by GroenLinks, I have noticed that it is sometimes very difficult to explain to a society. Let me be perfectly clear: I do not think you should take any motions in the Chamber in which you call for zero tolerance policy, when I think you should have done so twenty years ago. I find your suggestion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u197	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u198	I thought your suggestion was wrong. I'll explain that to you right now. Mrs Ploumen is also asking for it all the time. How can out of those 55,000 people working at the Department of Defense, young people say they've never had a magazine like that with what they can or can't do? Is reading a book something that shouldn't be? If it is public information, can you send a letter to the Chamber stating what is an initiation ritual, what standards and values are used, what activities may or may not take place and how young people are informed about it? Then anyone who serves or has served in the Defense Department can see and think: but wait a minute, that is not in accordance with my initiation ritual. And then we have an easy way of pointing out that something for someone is a reason to report to the Minister or the Secretary of State. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u199	Everyone gets a code of conduct. As soon as you enter the DOD, you'll get a code of conduct. It says what we stand for as a defense organization. That's essential. In addition, you have the initiation rituals. They're different per Defense unit and even per battalion. It's different if you're in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force. I can't tell each battalion exactly what it's like right now. I can, however, specify the conditions for this. You want me to give you an idea of what I mean by that, what I mean by monitoring it. That's how I understand your question. I can promise you that. But there are different rituals throughout the Defense Organization. One part goes to old cemeteries or battlegrounds to show what happened there, the other part has its own song. It's part of the job. So the ritual is different from one part to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u200	Difference can be very nice in general terms. It can be very nice that you do something that suits your group. At present, however, this leads to arbitrariness, leads to uncertainty and certainly leads to the possibility of excesses. What one thinks is funny, the other doesn't think it's funny at all. Because of what the Secretary of State says, it's a lot clearer. There are general agreements about how you treat each other. But you can be 21 years old, sit in an initiation ritual and think: I don't like the fact that I've been beaten to death for two nights; can I, how does that work? And then a commander says: we find this funny, according to behavior standards it may be funny, we can only physically and mentally not hurt you. Look, the essence of course is that it's not about what the intention of an act is, it's about how it comes across and what it does to someone. Do you have the willingness to ask how we are going to allow these nice initiation rituals to take place at this time? And then you can judge it. Then you can say: ho a moment, the initiation rituals are not allowed because of hopperepup and hopperepup. You're making it very non-committal and easy for people to get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u201	Now I don't understand Mrs. Belhaj. It now implies that initiation rituals lead to arbitrary and very unsafe situations. If one thing is prescribed within the Defence Organization, then it is the course of initiation rituals. I call it supervision, how, what conditions, what people should be present. I can tell you in that sense: if something is prescribed and there is something that is supervised, then that is the initiation ritual. But this is a moment when there is no supervision. It's about a time when people sit together at night and maybe do other things. That's the crucial moment. That's what the questions are about: how do you deal with each other, what is the role of the commander, how did we deal with each other? That's essential. It is now very easy to say that the initiation rituals are the problem. Honestly, I wish I was. Then the problem would be solved very quickly. It's much wider. It's about setting clear standards with each other. If you ask me, "What will you give people as soon as they enter the DOD?" Then it's the code of conduct. As I said in reply to a question from Mrs Diks, this code of conduct is not something you get on a page with the announcement: please, here it is and have fun with it. The point is that everyone abides by this code of conduct every day and appeals to each other if they do not. And whether it's an initiation ritual, during the first day at the academy or during a mission, that code of conduct should just apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u202	Colleagues. I am now going to be a little strict, also in the direction of the rulers. They're pretty long interruptions. I understand it's an appropriate point. They're a little long answers, too. I've agreed that the interruptions are basically in two. Mrs Belhaj wanted to come forward again and I see Mrs Ploumen again on this point. We also have a second term. I was just being strict when I sent Mrs. Diks away and I think I'm gonna send Mrs. Ploumen away, too. But again, I don't want to put this issue down. If you have any questions, you can ask them in the second term. Perhaps the further contribution of the Secretary of State will prompt you to walk to the interrupting microphone again. Mrs Karabulut has not been here yet. So I can't refuse her. Mrs. Karabulut, please have a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u203	As you're used to me, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very good that both regiments are calling for abuses to be reported. That's trustworthy and important. However, the directors also know that this is a structural and profound problem. There's an external investigation under way. But suppose people do not dare, because they will then be reprimanded by their superiors or because there are other consequences, where can these people go now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u204	There is an internal hotline, as Mrs Karabulut knows, the Central Organisation Integrity Defence. There are also external hotlines, such as the House for whistleblowers and the National Ombudsman. In the WHO Staff, I said that the external committee is still working on its plan of action, but that we are also going to set up a temporary external hotline so that, in the coming period, if they feel as Mrs Karabulut points out, they can at least make a report there. That hotline is not yet operational, but we want it to be operational as soon as possible. Work is under way to set up that hotline. As soon as we know more from the external committee, I will report it to the Chamber, as I indicated yesterday in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u205	In conclusion, Mrs Karabulut, you do not need to repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u206	No, Mr President, but it is a very important point. The Secretary of State may now refer to all kinds of other hotlines, but many stories have come to the union and the newspaper as a result of this story. We also know that it is a cultural problem; so does the Secretary of State himself. We're not just gonna solve that. Can this hotline, coupled with this whole subject, be created very quickly because the Secretary of State calls on the people to report? Can I just call that what next week? What I don't want and what shouldn't happen is that we're two or three months away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u207	The Secretary of State, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u208	Yes. It is not yet settled, because we want to do it well and because we want to have an independent hotline. We hope it will be settled next week. I say "hope," because if we do it, we have to do it right. That's why we're working hard on it now. I mentioned the external hotlines to point out that there is something not only within the Defense Department, but also outside, so that there are more options. But we will soon have this hotline and this external committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u209	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u210	Yes. I have only talked so far about social security, but of course we are also talking about physical safety. Some of them have mentioned this in their contribution, also in connection with the report of the Research Council on Security. He's underlining that. The report indicates that care must be taken to ensure the availability of facilities in order to be able to operate safely. It is also necessary to ensure that the rules and procedures are clear, but above all that they are respected. Then we come back to the aspect: if something happens, do you speak to each other and what does it mean when you speak to each other; is there room for that, or are you thrown aside? On behalf of the Minister, I can fully endorse these principles and recommendations in relation to what we are paying attention to in the coming period when it comes to physical safety. It calls for increased knowledge and awareness, but also for clarity about the responsibilities and roles in them. During the last period, we have been working specifically, following the incidents, to assess the range and improve monitoring, but also to take a number of steps in the area of ammunition management, such as speeding up the type rating. We are all doing this to ensure that we can put things in order on that point. Many spokesmen have spoken about the so-called can-domeality of the Defense Department. That mentality has brought us a great deal. That makes sure that if we can't, we do it as we can. Under certain circumstances, this may be very desirable, but we have also seen the disadvantages of this in the past period. It is therefore good to point out that we fully support the statement made by the Commander of the Armed Forces in accepting his office, that it is a question of clarity and that 'no' is also an answer. At the front, we need to clarify and clarify what the Defense Department can do and what it can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u211	This is about physical safety. That is another subject, I understand, so Mrs Ploumen may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u212	I thank the Secretary of State for her answer. I do have one more question. It mentions the terrible and sad events that we have all heard of. I also know that there has been an operational pause in the missions to review everything. Can I ask the Secretary of State how the other parts, where we know there have been no incidents, are now checked as routine extra? Or isn't that happening yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u213	I don't quite understand the question, Mr. Chairman. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u214	I understand that where incidents have occurred, extra checks have been carried out and what needs to be done, for example on the shooting range. There are, of course, parts where incidents might happen. Have they been put under extra control, too? What else is the new routine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u215	When it comes to shooting ranges, not only has there been an inspection where incidents have occurred. That's where everything was checked out. What's done? It has been said that we need to increase risk inventories and inspections in all areas. That process has been completed on the one hand and on the other hand it is just happening. But it is also a continuous thing, because a security council has been set up within the Ministry of Defence to ensure that these kinds of issues are dealt with. That process is ongoing. We also have the Van der Veer Committee. He has still appointed Minister Hennis for what can happen in that physical safety. So on all points, both now and in everyday work, things are done about it. But the Van der Veer Committee will also come up with recommendations to see how we can strengthen that physical safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u216	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u217	Mr President, to supplement that, that too is a question of culture. We must work together to ensure that we are able to apply it at all levels. That'll be a bit of a long shot and stay. Then I would like to move on to another point, a point that almost all Members of Parliament have drawn attention to, each in its own way. This is a matter for the staff and especially for the concerns of whether we have enough people now and, above all, in the future, because we see that we currently have more than 5,000 vacancies. With an attractive labour market, it is likely that this will not suddenly become less, but probably even more. You're worried about this, and so am I. So this has our full attention. In the documents for Prince's Day you have also received a plan for preservation and recruitment. It states what concrete measures are already being implemented and what measures are still under consideration for the coming period. For example, Mr Bosman, Mrs Diks and Mrs Bruins Slot have asked what is actually happening. A project general has been appointed to carry this out. In the coming period, he will focus on maintaining and recruiting staff. This is not so much an essential element for further implementation as for the starting point. The Minister has already indicated that. I hope to be able to sign the outcome of the negotiations with the trade unions tomorrow, because that will at least give us a short-term perspective on working conditions. Just pay and an end-of-year allowance, so to speak. But there are also a number of other elements that are essential, for example for the retention of personnel. I will not go into the technique, but the Members of Parliament present here, for example, know what stage 2 means. How do we hold on to people we want a little longer? How do we further ensure in phase 3 that this is also a technical explanation that people can accelerate to flow out? That is part of this negotiating agreement, and that is precisely why we hope that we will be able to sign tomorrow and that this can also offer prospects for the future. Mr Bosman mentioned it, but Mrs Bruins Slot also did: if we look at the current human resources system and look at the future, we are talking, for example, about elements such as the adaptive military force. Then you just want you to work together, both within Defense, Mrs. Ploumen gave that to... and beyond. How do you make sure that people who work in business can work temporarily within the Department of Defense? But also: how do you ensure that people within the Defense Department can also go outside to do temporary work there? Well, that's not annoying for their careers, because it just means you're getting other skills. Mr Bosman asked for it and indeed the training courses are a very important one. But it also plays when it comes to reservists. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked in the legislative consultation how to ensure that you can relieve both the reservist himself and his legislator from, for example, the paper shop in case of illness and everything that goes with it. Actually, you need to make it as easy as possible. These are all things that are on our agenda for the coming period to be worked out. But it will begin tomorrow with the signing of that negotiator's result, which Mr Dijkhoff has arranged in his three weeks as Secretary of Defense. We want to work towards a system in which the inflow, flow and outflow are properly designed. That's what we're gonna do. In addition to many tried and tested measures we have taken, we have also started with less tried and tested measures, such as pop-up stores. Last week I was able to open one myself in Amsterdam, but we will be going into the country in the coming weeks, both north, south, middle and east. You can't just walk into a barracks or an air base, but we need to be visible. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked how to make sure that Defense is just visible in society again, so that people know what Defense stands for and what career opportunities are. I've already indicated that reservists are appallingly important. Mrs Belhaij also asked about the cyber-reservists, who are very important. We still have a great deal to do to ensure that we get this right. I myself was able to speak to a cyber-reservist at the award ceremony for the reserve employer. I also spoke to his employer. I am talking about an example of employers who want to do so, but we also see that in an attractive labour market everyone is competing for the same people and that it is becoming increasingly difficult. Know that it has our attention and know that we are going to work at full speed for the coming period. When it comes to readiness, we have to ensure that we not only give our people a good salary and offer good prospects and career opportunities, but also that we ensure that the equipment with which people work is in order, so that we do not have to wait a month for a bolt or a screw before we can get on with our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u218	The Secretary of State spoke the magic word "ready." Putting the basic set-up in order is an important task in order to be able to use the armed forces properly. I asked a question about this and it was answered in writing. But I still have concerns about the answer to the question. For ease of reference, page 16, question 41. The background to my question was the alarming remark made by the International Affairs Advisory Council, which said: 2021 is actually too late. The Secretary of State says that the pace of recovery depends, among other things, on mission pressure, procurement under logistical combat support and the ability to make replacement investments in time. The latter is my concern. We must have enough money to put the basics in order. In the letter of amendment, as far as I can see, there is no extra money in it, while money still under the 2017 budget has been spent on the middle-sum problem. The background to my question is: do we have enough money to put the basics in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u219	The basic readiness consists not only of the material side, as you just said, but also of the human side. I share your concerns about the basic readiness. You ask: can we achieve this at a rapid pace? We aim to achieve it in 2021, but this depends, among other things, on material readiness, replacement investments and staff. As you know, investment and procurement are sometimes very long routes. Sometimes you spend two to five years buying ammunition, for example. To everything we can do to speed this up, we want to use the coming period. I don't know if we can go any faster. We are now aiming for 2012. It's hard enough getting all that done. It does not depend on one aspect, but it amounts to the combination of both equipment and personnel. There are 5,000 vacancies. That means quite a bit, if you want to make sure that you also put the practice in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u220	Finalizing, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u221	My point is specifically that in the 2017 budget, 197 million was earmarked for the strengthening of basic readiness. A total of 39 million was parked at that time, and that was ultimately not spent on the basics, but on another subject, also important, namely the middle-sum problem. My question is: is that hole repaired now or isn't it necessary to fix that hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u222	Can I come back to that in second term? I'm gonna have to go over the tech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u223	You may do so, but Mr Bosman would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u224	Were you done with the staff part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u225	No, not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u226	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u227	You're gonna wait? Secretary of State, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u228	I would like to come back to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot: how can you ensure that you give commanders more room for manoeuvre in terms of personnel? In the plan of recruitment and preservation, it is precisely one of the elements to ensure that they are self-fulfiled. It doesn't matter if it's a problem with the army, with the Air Force, with the KMar or with the Navy itself how you want to fill it out. We want to give that space, so that they can tell themselves what they're up against and what space they need, because not everyone has exactly the same problems. We have already discussed in the legislative consultation that, in the coming period, commanders will be given more room in their budgets to direct themselves, for example in terms of staff, finance and how they intend to shape it. In this sense, the coming period will be an important step. We are going to see if that works and if there are more possibilities. The Minister and I will take that up in the coming period. Then I will go to Mrs Belhaj's questions and also from DENK on, for example, diversity. Do we have sufficient attention to diversity when recruiting new staff? Of course. For example, a goal has been set in the last period, in terms of increasing the number of women within the armed forces. A targeted campaign has been launched for young women aged 16-19. In 2017 we used them again to bring this to the attention of the public. In addition, for the recruitment of young people with a migration background, there is cooperation with the police, for example, to see what we can do together to better shape this recruitment. As you know, we are also working on a policy plan for diversity. A number of measures have already been put into effect. You will receive that policy plan in the first quarter of 2018. In addition to recruitment and selection, the areas of the policy plan include training, leadership, the deployment of Defence Networks in this area, reporting and regulation. In the policy plan, we will come up with a follow-up on how we intend to implement this further. Several Members, Mr Bosman, Mrs Bruins Slot, Mrs Karabulut and also Mr Voordewind, have asked me if, in the light of the extra money that we now have available, I would like to look once again at another solution to the problem of the AOW pension gap. This is a long discussion within this Chamber. As you know, Defence itself has made 750 million available in its budget in order to achieve a provision ensuring that net income is at least 90% of the income that would have been paid if the AOW age had remained 65 years. I myself, as an employer, believe that the current regime, also in relation to other sectors of the Empire, has found a solution which we believe is appropriate in terms of income. The scheme ensures that there can be no large income drop and that people cannot find themselves in an irresponsible position. The Central Board of Appeal has endorsed this position and has assessed the scheme as adequate. I've heard the questions of the MPs. I have just explained that the plan of recruiting and retaining staff is really crucial for the coming period. Much needs to be done in the coming period, in terms of active staff and future staff. I'm willing to give the Defense Note an insight into the entire staffing. The Defence Note is more than just the future and "how are we going to work together internationally." Not only equipment, but also staff is essential to implement this. I propose to the Members that we make this clear. You ask: what does it mean, what else is possible? I've told you how we look at it. We think and the Central Board of Appeal has also indicated that this is an adequate arrangement, but I will give the Defence Note an insight into what the options are and what it means. I will also say that every euro can only be spent once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u229	Although Mrs Bruins Slot has already been on the staff theme, I assume this is a sub-theme within that theme staff. Mrs. Bruins Slot, for asking her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u230	It is good that the Secretary of State wishes to take this step. I appreciate that, too. I just want to make one thing clear. Then it is indeed a question of weighing up different possibilities. The Secretary of State says that this must be done within the framework of the Defence Note, because I have to make different choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u231	Yes, because the coalition agreement states that there is an envelope for good employership, cyber and strengthening force. Choices will have to be made. That is where we are dealing with the question of how we are going to look at the overall staff policy and what is needed for it. I heard your call. I've said I can make that clear. There will be choices to be made. It's 275 million for those three components, so in the end, choices will have to be made. I will make that clear so that the Chamber can also understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u232	Just for the record, this is about solving the entire AOW hole in the staff of Defense? Isn't the Secretary of State prepared to see if there are any other possible means to cover this hole? I can predict that maybe 1.4 billion will be released soon. But no doubt there are other windfalls and other opportunities, all the more so because this cabinet also believes that wages and working conditions should become more attractive and that the economy will be able to do so in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u233	As far as we are concerned, the arrangement that has now been made is an adequate one, but I have heard the Chamber. She asked to indicate what is possible and what it means financially. I will. But if the question is whether I am going to take steps now: we are not going to do so now, because an arrangement has been made, and because the judge has ruled and has considered that it is an adequate provision. But I have heard the House's call and I have also indicated that this is not the only thing. We also have a complete task in terms of maintaining staff and recruiting new staff. A number of measures have been taken, but more needs to be done. As you yourself point out, investments will have to be made in the future, in the case of new staff. And you can only spend the money once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u234	Sure, but this is of course also a way to make it attractive and maintain staff. It may be 10%, but that means a lot of money for a lot of people. Besides, we know that Defense personnel simply can't work anymore. The same applies to others, by the way. Isn't it true that the Secretary of State is going to investigate how the AOW hole could be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u235	The AOW-hole is fully compensated. That's net compensation. That was the first discussion. What matters now is that you may still have some problems with your retirement. I am going to make it clear what that means, but I will do so, as I have said, in the overall picture of what the challenges are when it comes to good employership, we are talking about the active staff, as well as all the ambitions and tasks that the Chamber has also expressed in the past when it comes to strengthening impact and cyber. The Minister has just said something about this and I have heard several Members of Parliament. So there are enough ambitions and questions and we are going to ensure that you can at least get a financial picture of them. We shall therefore come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u236	Quite precisely, because it is very important to all of us, I believe. We are therefore given a financial position in the Defence Paper in which possible choices are made understandable. The Secretary of State will, of course, come up with preferences. We can then talk about it and then the Chamber can follow it or make other choices. I ask this because I have announced a motion in this area in the first term. But if the Secretary of State says to me that we are getting that insightful and that she will also look at what is possible with regard to general resources, so perhaps with colleagues in the cabinet, I will hold on to that motion. Then, of course, I'd like to give the Secretary of State a chance to come up with a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u237	I don't know if it's gonna be in the Defense Note. We need to look at what it's gonna look like in the first place. It'll be in an attachment. The Minister also has a view on what the Defence Note should look like. That is what you are asking me to do, and I will make it clear what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u238	It may also simply be in an excel sheet or in an attachment. I don't care about any of that, as long as we get the line up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u239	Let me get this straight. You said I'm holding my motion. But you still have to file the motion. So you're actually announcing that you're not filing her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u240	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you just see that I'm a bit of a beginner in this business. I'm considering not filing her or arresting her. I'm gonna think about that in a minute. But I'm not going to ask the Secretary of State for an immediate judgment in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u241	We have the administration to run properly here. That's why I talked to you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u242	Thank you very much for that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u243	The Secretary of State continues her contribution. No, I see that Mr Dijkgraaf also has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u244	Mr President, I am now wondering whether I do not want a vote on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u245	On the motion that has not been tabled. You want a roll call vote? The quorum is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u246	I suggest that the Secretary of State continues her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u247	Sorry, Chairman. Mrs Ploumen just came forward and asked: can you look again at the RVU tax and whatever the Ministry of Social Affairs can do in it? Perhaps I can refer Mrs Ploumen to the following statements. Because we've already done this. "Also schemes which provide for compulsory early retirement are in charge of the RVU levy. This has to do with the fact that it's age-related dismissal. This levy is not intended as an incentive for the employee but as an incentive for the employer. In the end, the criterion is whether a scheme will lead to more redundancies for older people than would have to be expected on the basis of the principle of reflection. If the answer to that question is "yes', then the RVU levy is also due on the basis of the 2005 legislation. Whether this also applies to the arrangement with the Defense Department? The answer to that question is without doubt: yes." These statements come from former Minister Asscher, who, together with Minister Hennis, expressly discussed this with the Chamber. So your question has been answered, Mrs Ploumen. I'm going to the part about the good and maintained equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u248	No, wait a moment, because Mr Bosman wants to ask his question now. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u249	I've waited nicely until the end of the block, Mr. Chairman. I come to the answer to question 8, on page 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u250	I'll just grab it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u251	It is, of course, about the question of skipping job levels. I was extremely pleased with the answer: in theory it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u253	However, there is a "but" behind it. But in practice there are career paths and it's all stuck in concrete, and we're really not gonna do it, because it's really hard, and... terrible. But in my opinion, career policy is going to the 21st century. At least I think it's wise to go that way. If it's possible in theory, can't I assume that in practice we're trying to do so? 'Cause what if you have a 35-year-old guy, a high potential? If he can keep flowing but hits a ceiling because he didn't jump through the hoop, and he has a choice, then I can imagine him saying: you know what, I'm going out. That could have happened when perhaps ten years in that organization could have worked very well at a much higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u254	Mr Bosman has read it well. I think this is also one of the points when we talk about personnel policy, how we will deal with Defence personnel in the future and what opportunities there are. As far as I am concerned, that is one of the effects for the coming period. So I have heard Mr Bosman's appeal. I have not only heard him say this, but I have heard several Members of Parliament say: let us see how we can attract the good staff, and how we can retain it by offering people perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u256	That perspective is in career development. But as it says, it is indeed the representation of the current situation. I hear your call as: a little ambition. And I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u257	Then the members allow you to continue with your last block now: good, and well maintained equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u258	Yeah, because that's an important part too, and that's what you need, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, money has also been made available for this in the past period, also under the previous cabinet. But that's what's happening now. And there is already a noticeable result in getting the material ready. That means very concretely: just make sure that the equipment is there, that you can use it, that the people are there to support it, and that the people who have to operate it have all the means to do it. We've shared the lead times more often in this Chamber. For example, the planned maintenance is getting better and better with a number of weapon systems. We also see concrete improvements in this regard. The delivery reliability of cheap spare parts has increased. Since 2016, it has increased from 30% to 88% in June 2017. Stock availability has increased from 60% to 92%. That just makes life a lot easier in everyday practice. As Mrs Diks said, what does it mean for you at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning? But the pace is different per unit. Because not everywhere are the effects felt in practice. For example, the readiness of the frigates is not yet at the border level referred to yesterday. Mr Popken and Mr Bruins Slot also referred to this. As the Chamber knows, it is informed every six months about the employability of all units. The September report reported that work is under way to improve the readiness of the frigates and that they are now able to carry out the missions and assignments assigned in an adequate and secure manner. But this is not an adequate level of ambition as far as we are concerned. This will also have to be deployed at full speed in the coming period. I will therefore continue the path taken by the previous cabinet. I would also like to complete the implementation of the plan of approach to material readiness at full speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u259	I was very happy in the context of the discussion about which clothing our soldiers have exactly with the clarity and answer on page 15, also about the combat jackets. That point is addressed by the Forum for Democracy. I had to be brief, I know, Mr. Chairman! On the one hand, therefore, it is satisfactory because it is clear, on the other hand, it is unsatisfactory because I think: yes, but do soldiers who are on mission or need to train have the right clothes for that or not? And is there perhaps a prioritization in the people who are now saying: but I have something that is broken and not working? Can you specify that a little more so that the Netherlands understands whether or not we provide our military with decent equipment to do their job?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u260	Yes. This was also in my story later, so I wanted to come back to it. Mrs Belhaj is right to make a point. Let us leave any discussion aside: the equipment of our soldiers who are on the move simply meets the NATO standards. So that's about safety. When it comes to convenience, or such a vest feels comfortable and whether you can act in motion, it is heavily invested in different ways over the coming period; you can also see that in the answer. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather today than tomorrow, so the sooner the better. But there's going to be investment in all these things in the coming period. That does not mean that it will be finished, because it is actually a continuous process to ensure that our soldiers have the right equipment when they are on the move or practicing. The Corps Command has already gotten new clothes. It is also tested and based on these test experiences we can then take a number of other steps and see how it can be done even better. But if, for example, people are sent to mission areas, it is the first priority to be able to do that replacement first. Is that an answer to your question? Because I can still see you thinking. So let me see if Mrs Belhaj has a follow-up question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u261	It seems to be yes, but there will be a question. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u262	Thinking never stops! But to close this debate completely properly: it is true that there are people who had equipment that wasn't very comfortable but probably met all kinds of standards, so some people decided to buy something independently, because it was just uncomfortable? I'd like that recognition here today. And then two: from this science, has it been set in motion a while ago that people get comfortable, innovative material as soon as possible? How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u263	Yes and yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u264	That's obvious! I suggest we move on to Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u265	I hope I can do it as soon as I can! I have the next question. The Secretary of State has addressed two points and said that the frigates on mission are state of the art and can do their job properly. But the big problem, which I always encounter when working visits, is that all the warehouses are plundered and existing frigates that are still here in the Netherlands are dismantled or more or less cannibalized by the pieces that are travelling. Or go on a trip, I mean go on a mission; it's time to eat, I think! Can you indicate how this works, that we are making good decorations abroad but now in the Netherlands with empty boxes left behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u266	It's not an empty decoration. I think that is a very important aspect of the imagery. They do important work. If they're going out, we need to make sure it's just enough. I have just indicated that we have come a long way when it comes to ensuring that the spare parts are there. I also mentioned the numbers. We've gone from 30% to almost 90%. That's what we're gonna do. This means that it is not yet in order everywhere, that this commitment has been made and that we will continue to do so. Your question is whether or not to redistribute, so are parts of frigates that are in maintenance given to frigates that go on mission? Yes. Is that something we need to work on in the future? Yes, but then we also come to the discussion about the Defence Note: what is needed and what does that mean? Let us be very clear that if we go on a mission, we will be safe on a mission and with the right means. But we also need to invest, and that means making choices. We are going to make those choices in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u267	A brief question from Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u268	That's very understandable, and what I mean by things, uh, uh...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u269	It's been a long night lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u270	What I meant to say was that I did not mean to say the good ornament that we are making in the direction of our military, but that we are going abroad showing that it all looks very well, while here in the Netherlands I gave it up with the empty boxes. You indicate that you are going to pick that up at full speed, and I think it is very important to do so and, above all, to work towards trust in the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u271	And then there's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u272	Whether it is the best way to strengthen the trust of the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u273	Yeah, because I also went to work in Den Helder, on one of those frigates. When you're talking about the question of what makes people happy in their work, you're talking about this kind of thing. For example, I mentioned that you don't have to wait a month for a part, but that you can get to work. That means that sometimes you have to deal with parts that are very difficult to order and then it takes a long time. But the little things just need to be realized quickly, the sooner the better. I have just indicated that we are coming a long way, but this has been put under strong pressure by former Minister Hennis over the past period, and we will continue to do so in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u274	Returning to the clothing and equipment of the military. As a permanent chamber committee, we made a work visit in Soesterberg, where our soldiers get the clothes. There we were not informed that soldiers bought extra equipment with their own money for their own safety. I regret that we were not fully and properly informed during that work visit. I would also like to say: can you guarantee that no military is sent on mission that is not fully equipped with decent and safe equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u275	I have indicated that there are soldiers who have contributed to parts of their clothing. That has been the case in all times, and we know this is happening now. I have indicated to you what we are doing to ensure that they can be replaced as soon as possible. It is true that we are going on a mission with equipment that meets international safety standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u276	In conclusion, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u277	However, we are now hearing that there are soldiers who are going on a mission with their own resources. If we add one-and-a-half euros, you should guarantee that there has been a lot of discussion here after Mr Baudet was standing here with all kinds of attributes, that we do not send any military on mission until we have bought and supplied all the supplies and safe equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u278	I just indicated that our military are going on a mission with equipment that meets all NATO standards. In the replies to Mrs Belhaj, who specifically asked for them, not only yesterday but also in previous debates, I indicated that there is considerable investment in this equipment. That doesn't happen fast enough for many people, the sooner the better. There will always be soldiers who say: those are just the shoes I don't want. What I have also indicated in the same legislative consultation is that we are working on a concept that gives you much more choice, a kind of shop in shop principle, giving soldiers the opportunity to say, for example, out of five pairs of shoes of a pair: I think that is a better pair than that. Many more choices, not everyone the same, but much more variety. That is why I indicated that this is not a process of investing now and saying 'then it is ready', because we see that the possibilities of vests and such are developing too. This is a continuous process that we continue to use. If our people go on a mission, they have equipment that meets international safety standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u279	I would suggest that you continue with your contribution. Mrs Karabulut would like to ask you one more question, but I lost it for a moment. You are at the top of my list of interruptions and I have just forgotten how many times you have interrupted on this subject. No? Then you may do so, but I would ask you all once again to keep the amount of text limited. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u280	I'll keep doing my best, but I can also wait until the Secretary of State is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u281	Then that's what we're gonna do. The Secretary of State may pursue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u282	I think it is important, as a result of the discussion we just had, to note that it is important to do this all the time because then you can take the user experiences with you and you can improve every subsequent phase. You can do more customization. That is actually the intention: flexibility and tailor-made work, including for equipment. But it must always comply with the NATO standards we have set with each other. About the readiness of the equipment I just said that a good purchase is important. You must also ensure fast procedures, of course in accordance with the laws and regulations. Of course, I also have to deal with the government agreement, the procurement procedures and, above all, the interpretation of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. This must be applied in a way that is workable, so that we can move quickly to procurement when it comes to matters of national interest. This also applies to the safety issue. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of my speech. I can see a number of people getting up right away; I may not have answered a number of questions. I should like to conclude with the following comment. When our men and women go out, they do it with an assignment. They have been trained and trained for this purpose. I'll cross-reference it with a football team. I myself am in favour of Feyenoord, but here in this room there will probably also be people who are for Ajax or for PSV or so on; 'FC Twente', I hear here. The point is that you have a team in which all the positions are taken, so you can play with a full team. A team in which people can trust each other and rely on each other. They need to know when to get a pass and when to defend. They should also address each other, especially when it is difficult but also daily during the training sessions, in the dressing rooms. The equipment must also be good: the ball must be good, so that it can be stepped into the target. With this football metaphor, perhaps a bit of the Feyenoordhart that speaks; it is not going very well, I would like to say that I want to work together with the Minister towards a good result in order to achieve that safe environment with well-equipped staff and good equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u283	Almost fine closing words, but we are not yet there, because there are a few colleagues who would like to ask you a question, starting with Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u284	The Secretary of State gives a striking example of a football team that needs to build on each other and trust and that must also have the space to do what is good. For example, if you are right back, you should be able to take the responsibility to carry out your task independently. It's a little clumsy when you have to walk back to the goalie with the question "Can I take that ball?" Then I'll get to the DOD's operating model. The CDA has been saying for years that it is too centralistic, too bureaucratic. Our former Commander of the Armed Forces, Middendorp, who did a fantastic job, also devoted a number of words to this in his farewell speech. He said: "I hope that within the Defense Department we will succeed in better pooling forces and bringing centralised services and responsibilities closer to the operational commanders." My question to the Secretary of State is: will it implement it and, if so, how will it implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u285	The Minister and I have been in office for four weeks. We have had several discussions and have been able to make various work visits. This is what we want to continue in the coming weeks, precisely to find out in the organisation what is needed to perform the tasks properly: "What do you need?" This is not only material, it is also a question of responsibilities. We cannot now give a ready answer in the sense of "that's how we're gonna do it," but it's essential to make sure that people are comfortable and able to do their job in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u286	I understand that both directors in the four weeks that they are here do not have much of an answer to all the questions. Some commanders, including the higher ones, have to go to DOSCO and DMO before they can get to work themselves. That can be simpler and that can probably also be lean and mean. May I ask the Secretary of State if, in the context of the Defence Note, she will also come back to the question of whether the operating model can be effectively addressed, so that it is a team that does not have to ask for permission first if it wants to play the ball?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u287	I do think it is important that the rules of the game are known, that you know what is expected of you and that you can also kick the ball forward, so to speak. Or with a hockey stick, that's how I just understood...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u288	Shall we slowly pass the stage of metaphors, also for the sake of time? I suggest you answer Mrs Bruins Slot's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u289	Sorry, Chairman. We will come back to that in the context of how we can ensure that we put people in their power and that things work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u290	Mr President, I hear a commitment, but I would like to hear the word 'control model' in it, because 'enforce people' can be very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u291	I'm moving on now, because I've been a little harsh on you all. I hear the Secretary of State whispering "yes" now. She heard. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind. You may ask your question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u292	I had another question about the VPD teams. I don't think that question has been answered yet. We've had a letter about that before, but I'm reading that Fleet Marine Squadrons are coming to relieve the VPD teams. That is in any case stated in the written reply. What am I supposed to do with that? Are we actually going to work more effectively or with smaller teams to protect those merchant ships? I couldn't get a picture of it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u293	I cannot find this in the answer that quickly, but I know that at least this question has been answered. On the basis of my opinion, we have examined the motion from your hand as to whether there is any other way. It has come out that it cannot be done in any other way, precisely because of the safety of the people who do so. That is why this investment was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u294	Mr Voordewind, for my understanding of what a "VVD team" is, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u295	A VPD team. That stands for Vessel Protection Detachment, to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u296	Thank you. Ask your question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u297	So they're investing in that Fleet Marine Squadron, but what exactly are they going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u298	That money will be made available so that the people who are now being deployed for the VPD, for the Vessel Protection Detachment. I had to think about it myself; you could be relieved of that with all those English terms. They can then be used for a number of special assignments in the field of the Navy. A number of people are taken from it and put in a separate unit for special actions and missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u299	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer to the question about keeping the Financial Services Centre open in Eygelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u300	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u301	You've already answered that question, so there's no need for an apology. The answer is clear, but I don't like it. You won't be surprised. Despite the letter received by the Chamber and despite the answer, the argument why the Financial Services Centre should go to Utrecht is not convincing as far as I am concerned. It is not financially convincing, even though it only counts a little bit, but it is also not convincing in another respect. At this time, you're very good at doing digital business. You don't have to sit all together in one place anymore. So I am very sorry that previous political commitments have not been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u302	But you're not asking a question right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u303	I would like to make that point, and I am sure the Secretary of State will confirm it. And yes, there is no other answer than that this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u304	Then let's check with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u305	I have said a few times in the letter that we are indeed not complying with the previous commitment, but I would like to point out to Mrs Ploumen what we are doing to ensure that there is employment in Limburg. The criticism was: make that business case sharp; a choice has been made, but we really lack a foundation, both financially and in terms of content. The PvdA and the CDA insisted on this. We've now sent that backup along with us. Of course, you may disagree with that, but it is not just about finances. We want these people to get together because we see that there are peak taxes and that the whole process can be different. That's where these people belong. We have also indicated that we will find tailor-made solutions for those who do not want to participate. As stated in the letter, fortunately, it is a limited group that claims to want to make a different assessment. That group of people is looking for work inside or outside of Defense. That's what we're really looking for tailor-made solutions for. In consultation with the province of Limburg, the question of how we can strengthen employment in the short term, as you have read in the letter. But we are also looking at the future, for example, at how we can shape cooperation in the field of innovation. We talked about that, too. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to do so, but I understand that Mrs Ploumen does not agree with the final solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u306	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the effort to bring employment to Limburg in other ways. That has to be said, but we do continue to disagree about Eygelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u307	Finally, Mrs Karabulut, who already announced that she would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u308	Over the past few years, the Defense Organization has been predatory. Everyone now cheers that this will be solved with a pot of money. I think there are still other political choices to be made. The General Court also says that everything is required, that the missions swallow up a lot; make clear what the commitment to missions means for the rest of the organisation. What surprises me is that despite all the pressure, the predatory construction, knowing the deficits and the problems with availability, everything can still happen. Can the Secretary of State tell us if the Defence Organisation can handle everything that is being asked of her at this time and will be asked for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u309	There is also the Chamber itself, when it comes to the objectives for which the defence is being deployed. We're reporting on that, too. There are four target counts that you have given us for the deployment of Defense, both nationally and internationally. It's also reported on what can and can't be done. It also states whether this can be done with restrictions, as it is called, so that some of those tasks can be carried out. This will also be presented to you and made clear. Yes, there must be substantial investment in this, because in the past 20 or 30 years there has indeed been cuts in the defence sector. Fortunately, in the previous cabinet period, there has been a turnaround. To this end, the first steps have been taken, and this cabinet period will continue. That requires efforts, yes, and you are involved, yes. In the Defence Note, you can also make a statement about what you think should be the objectives of Defence. Then I am also curious about the statements of the SP itself in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u310	A final question, but brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u311	That predatory building, we warned of it year in, year out. We have also put forward our alternatives, and we will continue to do so. However, the actual situation is that this has not prevented a number of painful incidents, with fatal outcome, which are also being investigated. My question was not "what is our role?', Although, of course, we all have a responsibility, my question is: given the depressed situation and the human and material problems, is it justified to demand what this cabinet intends to demand in the coming years, as regards the commitment to missions and tasks in the Netherlands? Can the Secretary of State answer that question with a yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u312	We indicate what we can do, what objectives, what limitations, or what not. You will be informed. But I must say that a party such as the SP in its calculations has been cutting back on Defense over the past few years. Every time, every CPB calculation, I don't see a plus but a minus standing there. To take this government into account by saying that there is not enough done, and to link it to incidents that have occurred, I do not think that is very chic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u313	I saw that Mrs Belhaj also had a question. I'm looking hard, Mrs. Karabulut. You have a second term. I do not find this an entrapment, because the Secretary of State says something about one political party here in general, in response to your question. I give you an opportunity to say something very briefly, because you are in between dinner breaks and I have heard a number of people speak out that they need it. You will undoubtedly have many more discussions with the Secretary of State. I do not want to favour one colleague over another, so very briefly, because you interpret this as a reaction specific to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u314	I note that the Secretary of State does not answer a very fundamental question. In addition, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that we were not in the government, but that the VVD is partly responsible for these cuts. Yeah, we make different choices. This includes a different financial picture. But again, right now, I just want to know from the Secretary of State if the Defence Organization can handle this, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u315	Yes, but you asked that question and that question was answered by the Secretary of State, at least she answered it, and you can disagree with it or not, I am not going to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u316	President: Yes. But in the employability report, we always indicate the conditions under which something happens and, if necessary, what that means. You will therefore be informed of this every time in the budget. If you yourself think that things should be different, or if you yourself think that things should be less, then we are discussing this here, especially in this budget or in the legislative debate. I would therefore like to inform you that you will be able to state what you think that the DOD should do differently. It can also be done in a different way; we can also do it with the Defence Note. We will report to you on what can be done within the Defense Department and in what way. This employability report is linked to all objectives: national security, international security and the Caribbean. That includes what can be done. In doing so, we make it very clear that sometimes it is not possible to do so directly at all levels at the same time. You can draw your conclusions from that, and you can say that you agree or disagree with that. I hope you'll say, "Well, maybe we'll need more money to go to the DOD." Well, I'd like to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u317	Madam Secretary of State, you had already said your final words before these last questions were asked to you. I look around again, but it seems to me that no one has any further questions to ask you at the moment. This means that we are going to suspend so that we have the opportunity to eat or do everything else we want to do within the hour. Let me add: we are suspending rather well because all our support has had a very difficult week. After the suspension, the second period will begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u318	Colleagues, we need the second term of the Defence budget, including Coast Guard Caribbean Netherlands. You can speak indefinitely, but I do not encourage you to do so. You all know how many minutes you have left when it comes to the general agreements we have made on this subject. If you have any motions, you are requested to submit them in the second term. Firstly, in place of Mrs Popken, the floor is for Mrs Agema to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish my colleague Gabriëlle Popken a very warm welcome from this place. I shall be tabling a number of motions on her behalf on subjects which she raised in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our open border policy results in the free movement of terrorists and poses a threat to our national security;]] [[calls on the Government to close the borders for all asylum seekers and all migrants from Islamic countries and to deploy the Marechaussee to protect and guard the Dutch borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the adopted motion 33000-X, No. 55 has not been carried out;]] [[noting that defence personnel of Turkish and Dutch nationality may be called upon by Turkey to fulfil his military service;]] [[noting that Defence personnel of Turkish and Dutch nationality can borrow €1,000 from Defence to purchase his Turkish service from the Turkish State;]] [[whereas the Dutch taxpayer thus contributes to Turkish collective defence;]] [[Whereas separate arrangements are not necessary for defence personnel of Turkish and Dutch nationality, since they themselves can renounce their Turkish nationality;]] [[noting that the previous government has announced that it will shortly abolish the arrangements for the surrender of Turkish military service to police officers;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the Turkish military service arrangements immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our Defence personnel should only be loyal to one country, namely the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas a double passport may lead to double loyalty;]] [[noting that double-national defence personnel may be called upon to perform the service in the country of second nationality;]] [[Whereas appropriate measures should be taken to prevent infiltration and radicalisation within the armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government to dismiss double-national defence personnel and not to appoint new military personnel of dual nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-35]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u321	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I call Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u322	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering all the questions, both in writing and orally. That helps. There's a lot to be done. Much is only reflected in the discussion of the Defence Note, when it comes to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018. I am glad that the Chamber is involved in brainstorming the future of the armed forces, without us sitting in the chair of the cabinet. As I indicated in my interruption with the Secretary of State, the VVD looks forward to a good staff section. A fixed collective agreement, hopefully this Friday, is a good starting point. But according to the VVD much more needs to be done in personnel policy. I therefore thank the Secretary of State for her clear message that there are opportunities to be exploited. The term "course path', as stated in the written reply, is not directly the most progressive example of this. I've had a lot of reactions to my statement: why hasn't there been a general of 35 years? Let me be clear: that is a piece of text from a larger picture, with the aim of getting people to think. That has happened in the meantime, given all the reactions. Does he really have to be 35? Should he be a general right away? What about that famous career path? What I was concerned with was the fact that, if you really want to change personnel policy, you have to examine and discuss all options, however strange. Then the theoretical possibility of skipping grades is already a nice start.I'll get it in here but just fill it in without going straight into the ho-irons and into the anchors. Thank you also for the firm statements about inappropriate behaviour. There's no room in the DOD for people who just break the law. Those violations must be reported. The Secretary of State and the Minister were clear about that. This responsibility applies to everyone, from soldier to general, and I would like to emphasise that. Everyone's responsible for that. Mr. Chairman. A good measure of feeling in the organization is participation. That point is not mentioned very often, but I will. And why? In the past, I myself have been chairman of a participation committee for many years. And that's very nice. People know a lot about their part, their barracks, their ship. I therefore strongly recommend that the directors also speak with the members of the co-decision committees, as a measure. They too, the members of the participation committees, are sometimes under pressure. I know that from personal experience. If a former Secretary of Defense is gonna give you a notice of office in his room, that's not nothing. Luckily, that all worked out okay. Mr. Chairman. I can't help saying something about Srebrenica. That has been a tremendously important learning moment for the Dutch armed forces. We then decided that we no longer send men and women on broadcast without adequate air support, that people should always be able to call for Dutch................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then it bothers me that DENK, through Mr Öztürk, simply says: air support is not necessary; we are cutting back on the future deployment of fighter planes, because they are not necessary. Making mistakes may be, but not learning from those mistakes is negligence. That's inappropriate and unwise. The worst thing is to blame the staff if there was no air support. That's inappropriate. On drones, I have a question for the Minister or the Secretary of State. Can you explain to me the difference between an F-16 and a drone, for example? 'Cause I think that's just the pilot's spot. Are there other rules on commitment, are there other rules or engagement? I believe that it is the area of deployment or the area of operation and that it has been established for both. There are always very big discussions about unmanned aircraft that cause death and destruction everywhere, but I think... Again, I put the question and hope for a clear answer. A concern that has come to me is mail delivery in the broadcasting area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u323	Before you get there, there is a question from Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u324	I still have an interruption on the previous point. I was actually a little shocked by Mr Bosman's question. You're not going to tell me that you really have no idea what the difference is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u325	No, but I'm not here to teach. I am standing here to ask a question, and I think the Minister can explain that perfectly. The first indication I've already given is the difference between the pilot's location. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u326	So in the eyes of the VVD, the difference between a pilot in an airplane and a pilot driving a drone is because that's also a pilot sitting where the pilot is. Am I getting it together that well? Is that really the only difference between these two in the eyes of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u327	Yes. I'll explain it again. The pilot on the ground, who just looks on his screen at what the bet is, has been kept to exactly the same rules or commitment as an F-16 pilot, but well, now I'm ahead of the Minister's answer. The F-16 pilot is assigned an operating area in which he or she is allowed to operate, with the associated rules of engagement, so what he or she is allowed to use and use. That's how you fill that out. Whether it's a drone or an F-16, it's about the obligations and responsibilities that the Cabinet and we as Chamber lay down. It's exactly the same rules or commitment. You can't just say you're taking a drone out of surgery. It can't be. You're just stuck with all those responsibilities that apply exactly the same way to an F-16 pilot and a drone pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u328	This is the answer to Mrs Diks' question. I suspect that Mr Dijkgraaf will also ask you a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u329	Right, Mr. Chairman, because we have a unique thing in our midst, namely an F-16 pilot. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u330	Yeah, ex. A former F-16 pilot
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u331	That is why I am curious about the experiences of this F-16 pilot with the remote firing. Isn't it true that in an F-16 you're often at a great distance from the goal you're targeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u332	No, but the target is always within the surgical area. The target is never outside the operating area. That's the responsibility you have. Those are the rules of engagement. The fact that you can throw a bomb far away or shoot a rocket far off, because you're in the operating area... Where it ends up is essential. That's the point. So the goal must be clear, it must be beamed, it must be in sight, it must be identified by several people, a clear "go" must be given. You don't want to know how many conditions there are. The beauty of a drone like this is that there are often two men sitting next to each other. They're separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u333	A follow-up question. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u334	My point is that nowadays you're in a lot of weapon systems at a great distance from the target itself. As good as controlling a drone. I think it is about the rules of engagement, rather than the question of the distance you are at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u335	We're all in agreement. That's exactly the same thing. People often think that a drone has different rules or engagement, because there's no pilot in it. They're identical. Americans, I think, are just doing it from Florida. That's where they run drones in Afghanistan. But that doesn't mean Florida's rules of engagement count. No, then Afghanistan's rules of engagement count.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u336	I was gone for a while, but Mr Bosman of the VVD said a few things about DENK and about my speech. It's a real shame to hear this. Over the last few years, it has been VVD ministers and VVD cabinets who have been cutting hard on Defense, who have left Defence personnel in the cold, who have not bought, delivered the materials they really needed, and who were engaged in combat planes and submarines. And now keep the story of "look here, air support" and all that stuff. It was the VVD that Defense for years stood up. I think Mr Bosman owes an apology to his former colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u337	And as an independent chairman, I ask, as I do with others: and your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u338	Is that what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u339	Mr Öztürk did not respond to the content at all. Absolutely not on the content. It's about the responsibility you have as a politician. That was the discussion, and that was also Mr Öztürk's reproach. He said, "Dutchbat 3 stood there and looked at it." I have already indicated that political responsibility was much greater and much more important. And with that same political responsibility, Mr Öztürk says: I am scraping air support. DENK cuts 1.7 billion. DENK also says: We are not buying JSFs. Mr Öztürk is cutting back on air support, which we all know has been a very tough lesson, which, without air support, sending men and women into war zones is a very bad thing. That's what we learned, at least most people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u340	Colleagues, there's been a lot of discussion. I'm not gonna get in the way of that one. But Mr Öztürk has to ask what he wants to know in one question and Mr Bosman has to respond in one answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u341	I talked about expensive submarines in my first term. That's what I said. And I said, if you buy one less expensive submarine, you can facilitate all the facilities that the military are asking for, salary, safe ammunition and all the other materials they need. That's what the VVD failed to do. You didn't give your ex-colleagues what they needed. You stood them up for years. And now, with the present cabinet, you've come to tell us a story about air support. I understand that you have a hobby, but first make sure that you correct what you have done to your former colleagues and apologize and say: colleagues, I have left you with unsafe material, unsafe clothing and that sort of thing for years. First set that straight before you want to put DENK in a certain angle where it doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u342	In conclusion, Mr Bosman, or else you will continue your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u343	Mr Öztürk says a number of shameful things. It's like we sent people out with unsafe equipment, with unsafe clothes. As has just been said, everything complied with the NATO standard. I think that the fact that such an image is being sketched by a party that wants to cut back 1.7 billion, does not want JSFs and does not want air support for men and women in broadcasting areas is totally inappropriate. Mr President, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u344	Do that. To Mr Özturk I say: no, I am strict. I said two interruptions in two. You have had it and Mr Bosman has replied. You're gonna have to do it with that. If you have any questions or comments, you can do so in your own second term. I'll leave it at that for now. Mr Bosman continues his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u345	I don't think I'd finished the mail delivery. Mail delivery in the broadcast area. That's really important. I've been there myself: there was nothing like a message from the home front, from people who think about you. Packages, books, liquorice, chocolate, photos, cassette tapes: it doesn't matter. It's funny, but I was on the air a long time ago. Santa Claus is coming, Christmas is coming, old and new is coming. There are real concerns about the mail delivery that takes a long time in the broadcast area. Postal delivery must always be there, but I would like to emphasise that at this time, when people have to miss their families, it is crucial to bring these kinds of things to the attention of the public. We have to put everything on it, not everything on it, I understand that in the context of operational readiness. But we all need to think about what it does for our men and women in the broadcasting area. A lot has been said about initiation rituals. I'm gonna tell you one. If you become a member of the mess... it was the mess in Twente, which is closed now so I can tell you quietly... then you were supposed to jump in the wheel. The wheel was a very large cartwheel hanging from the ceiling of the mess. The only downside was that you could never join the mess alone. You did that in groups. In short, you had to ride that wheel with eight men. It was hanging from the ceiling, about two and a half, three meters high. In turn, you had to jump in the wheel. The wheel was tested, it was checked for pull, push and you had to jump in one by one. Eventually you're alone in the wheel and you're offered a drink. Then you're a member of the mess. I don't want to play down anything that happens. But I also think that there are initiation rituals, of which you can have a lot of fun, from which much solidarity arises and which are a step that you all make and which you can look back on with pleasure. I loved being in that wheel in Twente. That is independent of all the concerns that there are about excesses and things that absolutely cannot be done. Let me stress that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u346	It raises a question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u347	I appreciate my colleague from the VVD saying that this is his experience. It's a wonderful example, because he says very clearly that it was safe. There was control. But what if someone had fallen out, or someone actually didn't want to do it at all because it has nothing to do with the work he was going to do? What if everyone laughs at him and bullies him for weeks: you're a loser, because you didn't jump in? How am I supposed to put that in relation to the fact that we all say in the Chamber that there are clear rules for what you can and can't do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u348	The great thing was that you could only jump one by one, so that was a side advantage. It was really looked at, because there was a stone floor underneath. They made sure no one fell out of the wheel or didn't get in. If you're smart, you put the most athletic first. It goes into the wheel and all the lesser gods jump into it a little later. In this way, an image is created that is just something else. I understand that there are concerns about pressure and people who would rather not do it. Again, I do not want to trivialize, but I have another example. My daughter just joined a fraternity. There too we talk about care and moments when you are going to do something together to get together. The core is doing it together. If you join the mess and you want all of that, you're supposed to watch how to do it. How are you gonna get everything you need to take care of that? That also requires something from yourself. It means you talk to your colleagues about who goes first, who's the strongest and the smartest. It goes first and then you follow yourself. It is your own responsibility to talk about it, to be open about it and not difficult to repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u349	A brief closing question, Mrs Belhaj, which, of course, includes a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u350	I'm not gonna give you a whole philosophy of life, but every human being is different. What's funny for you is terrifying for another. Again, if someone thinks "yes, but I really don't want to do that, I don't think it has anything to do with camaraderie," and it doesn't, do you think it's okay that someone says, "I don't?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u351	Sounds like it. You may also wonder if you want to join the mess, or if you want to join a student association. You can also say: I want to join a student association, but I don't want to participate in the introductory week. I don't think that's gonna work either. So there are all choices you can make, but they are your responsibilities. I fully agree with Mrs Belhaj: then you must clearly communicate about it. If you don't want it, there's no pushing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u352	Follow up on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the rulers for their commitment to reflect together on the reports and not to bury each other under a paper shop. I fully agree with what has been said about our controlling task. It is essential, but I think that sometimes the department is sending more paper than we are getting the matter straight. In my view, that is the essence of the task of the Minister and the Secretary of State: to get this department in order as quickly as possible and to get the money that has become available in the right place as well and as quickly as possible. They should not send us a letter every week about how much euro has now gone somewhere. We can do this in smart ways, and I think we can do it in good collusion. I'm rounding up. I wish the Minister and the Secretary of State every success and all men and women who are now on the air a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u354	Then I give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u355	Thank you. Fourteen minutes! Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u356	They don't have to be on, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u357	See, that helps, 'cause I only have four left. In fact, I only have three, because I had just used too many. Mr. Chairman. It's clear that the DOD is under pressure. I appreciate the fact that the two rulers have discussed this in detail. I see that after that three and a half weeks of passion, too, they show that they really want to go for action on this part. This must also be done, because the organisation is under pressure in a variety of ways: in terms of staff, equipment and support. I have also indicated this in my first term, and the rulers have gone into it. At the top of the list, in my opinion, there must be a restoration of confidence. That's the big point. Can the staff take on what politics says and what politics demands of them? How are we going to accommodate and organize that? Another very important point is, of course, a safe working environment. Everyone for me has gone into that and I'm thinking after me too. The environment must be safe. Especially for people who risk their lives to save or guard others, it cannot be that there is insecurity in their environment, and then partly organised by ourselves. That is, of course, unacceptable. I have faith in the Secretary of State and the Minister, but in this case it was the Secretary of State who very emphatically indicated "this is unacceptable, I will not accept it," so to speak. We will try with man and power, or woman and power, to deal with this and do it differently. I therefore look forward with confidence to the Defence Paper, especially since we have just agreed with each other in the procedural meeting and indeed in this discussion a kind of way of dealing with the 'tommy', I shall say, of the Defence Paper. I have faith in that. We're going to organize that round table before Christmas to be informed. Then we will have the conversation with you, or at least we will talk to you. Well, I guess that's the idea. Then we will have to talk to the Registry and to you specifically to see how we can set this up as cleverly as possible. Mr President, I have one more motion on the Elfwegen tour. I announced yesterday that I would make a special motion. I am happy to do so now, because you know that Leeuwarden/Fryslân will be the cultural capital next year. There will then be a very large project and in that context I would like to table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the framework of Leeuwarden/Fryslân cultural capital of Europe 2018 from 1 July to 15 July 2018 a significant effort is being made in Fryslân not to use fossil fuels during the Elfweg journey;]] [[noting that this project will involve dozens of companies, municipalities, civil society organisations, villages and schools;]] [[Considering that this initiative deserves support and that Defence with the Air Force Base in Leeuwarden could make an important contribution to this project;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how Defense can contribute to this Eleven Ways Trip by, for example, experimenting with alternative fuels or using no or much less fossil fuels during that period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u358	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. I see it this way: there is one team here with one task, and that is the restoration and building of an enhanced military force. This includes, first of all, the restoration of the confidence of the staff. Mrs Diks was right to say so, but others also said so. That is not only something that lies with the rulers, but also with us in the Chamber. So I look at myself, too. One of the things I often encounter when I speak to petty officers, officers and other executives is that they increasingly feel that they are no longer about who is at work in their unit. They can no longer dictate that the best people come to the best places. That is not the unwillingness of fellow Members but the result of bureaucracy: paper and procedures. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the personnel process in Defence is highly centralised, with commanders having no or few powers and resources;]] [[noting that the Government is examining which personnel decisions, for example on grade, duration of office and age at the time of appointment, can be laid down at a lower level;]] [[Considers that it is desirable for commanders to regain much more powers and resources in the field of personnel;]] [[calls on the Government to use the investigation into the delegation of personnel decisions to give commanders more powers and associated resources in the field of personnel and to put forward concrete measures to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj, Mr Ploumen, Mr Bosman, Mr Voordewind and Mr Diks.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u359	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the AOW pension gap many times here in the Chamber. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to doing so, but it is listening very carefully to how the Secretary of State is going to conduct this investigation. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that good employership of Defence is of great importance;]] [[Whereas all aspects of good employership and possible investment in personnel should be fully considered in the preparation of the Defence Note;]] [[Whereas the AOW pension gap should also be considered and considered in this context;]] [[calls on the Government to make the effects of the AOW pension gap transparent, to weigh in full and to look into the Defence Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj, Mr Bosman and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u360	Mr. Chairman. That versatile military force that was in the Reconnaissance reports seven years ago is no longer today's versatile military force. One of the examples where you see that most clearly is the advent of cyber and internet. The way you can influence the Internet, the way you can influence people, and the way you can disable energy and water facilities, really have a huge impact on society. You don't even need a cannon or a plane for that! You can just do that from your lazy chair at home. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement provides for a substantial expansion of cyber capacity and technology in Defence and increases the role of the armed forces in the digital security and surveillance of the Netherlands from its constitutional responsibility;]] [[calls on the government to invest in cyber as a fully-fledged fifth military domain, including a greater role of Defence in the third main task, in order to be able to act together with civilian security partners against digital threats and attacks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u361	Mr. Chairman. I would like to have an answer to my question about the basic readiness and the money that was made available for this purpose. I would like to invite both regiments to say more about the visibility of the pop-up stores of Defense. Nice, fine to do more swearing out in the open, but that really isn't enough. It is fantastic that it is also being looked at again, that was a question from Mrs Popken and also a question from me about the uniform ban. But why don't you just put a corporal like that in front of the classroom? Just let them go to an MBO school and think of other ways in which you let those fantastic military of Defense come into contact with young people who can still make a career. For them, the DOD is just a good employer. I'm closing up. I am glad that we have a Minister of Veterans again now, although of course the Secretary of State would have done a great job. Veterans like no other can tell why it's important to commit to a safe society. Peace and security are not self-evident. We have a lot to protect. Our health care, our children, our schools, our freedom. A strong military force is our best insurance policy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u362	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u363	I've got three minutes? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u364	It's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u365	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u366	I'm afraid so. You ask me it's true, I'll have it verified...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u367	Okay, very good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u368	No speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u369	Box K can't say anything now. The Minister may reply...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u370	I notice that the rulers are always very enthusiastic when I speak. Enjoy it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u371	Mrs. Karabulut, your time is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u372	I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the planned expenditure to the JSF, including the purchase of six devices, at least until the filling of the staff and the new Defence Note and the security analysis have been established by the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court finds that the Ministry of Defence has a tension between ambitions on the one hand and staff, material and money on the other;]] [[noting that this leads to a precarious balance between employability and resources;]] [[Considering that, in the opinion of the General Court of Auditors, Defence has developed only limited criteria for assessing personnel readiness;]] [[noting that the General Court recommended that, in political decision-making on the addition, extension or extension of military missions, account should be taken explicitly in advance of the consequences for the military;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the General Court, to draw up criteria to be used as a practical guide for practical employability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in 2015 the Netherlands signed the Safe Schools Declaration, which included concrete recommendations to better protect schools in case of military operations in the area where schools are located;]] [[noting that this initiative is not legally binding but contains practical additions to international humanitarian law;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Safe Schools Declaration in the Dutch operational frameworks of Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-41]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u373	I would like the Minister to answer my question as to whether we can get the legal frameworks linked to the Reapers, the drones. The debate on this will certainly continue. Mr. Chairman. I would like to end with a few comments. I started my speech by saying that the Defence Organization is in crisis. That's partly because there's been roofing. I notice that today's debate is actually a bit of a continuation of the existing policy. Everyone knows that can't go on like this. Discussions will take place on this subject. What I regret, and what I regret, is that the Minister has not answered in any way whether the strategy that is now being applied, namely the war against terrorism, which is increasingly intervening in all kinds of countries, is the solution and we must therefore be blindly behind it. It has also hardly considered whether the other development, namely that what the Commander of the Armed Forces called "we are in some sort of new Cold War," is wise in the direction of the Russians. These are the political issues and the international issues on which choices will have to be made: political choices which will then require an appropriate military force to be found. It is clear that my group is making a different choice, because the current strategy is completely bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u374	Then I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u375	Mr. Chairman. I think we've had two wonderful days together to discuss this exciting, new, first defence budget extensively. It is all true what all colleagues here have said out loud, namely that there has been predatory work on the Defense Department. Several political parties have assumed their responsibilities in their own way. It is good that a number of political parties have now said: more money is needed if you really think it needs to be improved. I look forward to working with each other on this improvement. By "to each other," I mean the rulers and the Chamber, whether you're all left or all right. By that, I mean the entire Defense Organization, from high to low. I believe that this is the only way to make sure that the Netherlands is safe as quickly as possible and that as many other people as possible are protected who are victims of terrorists or dictators, who are at risk and who can be slaughtered. The Netherlands can contribute to, for example, protecting all people who have become victims of ISIS. I think that's noble and I support it. Any suggestion that the Netherlands only contributes to more terrorism is a wrong one. Go explain that to those half a million people who've already been slaughtered. So I think it is perfectly legitimate to pursue intervention policy when you strive to protect other people or to ensure your own safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u376	An interruption by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u377	I know Mrs Belhaj as a very intelligent woman; I mean that. I assume that she will distinguish between the strategy and then the practical task for the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u378	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u379	Everyone says about the latter: when you do something, you have to make sure that our men and women are safe on the road. That did not go well; you also acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u380	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u381	There's gotta be another way. You are now defending the strategy, the war on terrorism for 16 years, which you say has brought us security, which you say has fought terrorism. Looking at the facts, can't you stand it? The world hasn't gotten any safer at all, has it? The people in the Middle East are not saved at all, when you look at the overall strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u382	Mrs Karabulut is also a very intelligent woman. The point is that we are looking at this dilemma differently. You've got 16 years of policy involved. I spoke specifically about the fight against ISIS, where I always want to ask the question again: do you think that we should have allowed ISIS to slaughter all those people? It's a diabolical dilemma, because I understand what you're saying. How far do you go in that and to what extent do you become a co-cause of all kinds of unrest in an area? At the same time, the other is also true. How far do you dare to distance and watch people butcher other people? I have said that in some cases, in some cases, this is the case, there is simply a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's specifically this mission I was referring to. I'm not talking about 16 years, because then we really need more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u383	Final follow-up question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u384	The last one, if you zoom in, sure. That's what international rules are for. But I ask Mrs Belhaj to zoom out, because we have been involved in an illegal war in Iraq, from which ISIS originated. We are indeed involved, still, in Afghanistan, where Al-Qaeda has not been defeated, where hundreds of thousands of refugees were made last year and where we are sending people back to. In other words, that sixteen years of war against terrorism, deported from the Americans and NATO, has resulted in more terrorism, more deaths and more refugees. And all I ask is reflection and reflection on whether this strategy may not be the right one, but perhaps it is a breeding ground for more extremism, insecurity and terrorism. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u385	Finalizing, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u386	That's a fair question. That is a question that every politician, at least every foreign or defence spokesperson, has to ask himself. I also think that many books and also thesis will be written about the extent to which you are co-caused and a source of all kinds of power shifts and therefore unrest. There is too little time this evening to give a good answer, so I take Mrs Karabulut's request to think with me and I very much hope that at some point we can turn that reflection into a political act or reflection. But it goes a little far to do that in two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u387	Yes, because now you will continue with your regular contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u388	Yeah, I'm gonna get back to my regular contribution. I had stuck to the complex issue of Defense. I said I sincerely hope we're gonna do it together. Because there are incredibly many opportunities right now to do things differently, because time is different and because there is more money. We can also do more about innovation and radiate more of an inclusive organisation, even more than it already is, and be even more explicit about it. You can be more explicit about that yourself. You can think for yourself that you're doing very well, but if the rest of the world doesn't see that then that's really a shame. We do not want that, because Defence has a duty, but simply the right to go out more. In order to do that, I have some motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that attention to diversity (age, gender, cultural background or labour restriction) in the Defence Department is important from an operational point of view and for an inclusive culture;]] [[Considering that in 2015 Defence signed the Charter Diversity and thereby made a voluntary commitment to promote diversity and thereby take explicit action;]] [[Whereas it should be stressed that attention to diversity, inclusive culture and taking concrete action on it is not the same as preferential treatment and that this does not fit in with the premise that every man and woman in the Defense Department must meet the same criteria;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen diversity and diversity awareness in all parts of Defence, focusing on an inclusive culture, resulting in both influx and retention of staff from under-represented groups so far involved in the Defence Note and annual personnel reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Ploumen, Mr Diks, Mr Öztürk and Mr Karabulut.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u389	The next issue that concerns the future is innovation and R&D. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for a technologically advanced military force such as the government, it is necessary to innovate sufficiently;]] [[Considering that many R&D and innovations in Defense also have spin-off to civil society;]] [[noting that the European Defence Agency Directive requires at least 2% of the Defence budget to be spent on R&D and innovation;]] [[Considering that the R&D and innovation budget of Defence is currently not even 1% of the Defence budget;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the growth path for expenditure on research and development and innovation in the provision of the Defence Note and to clarify the following additional letter of amendment or supplementary budget (realising the further distribution of Rutte III's additional resources),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Belhaj, Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Voordewind, Mr Bosman and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u390	My final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain function groups in the Defence Department are subject to an upper limit to the influx age due to the necessary performance of the operational tasks of the armed forces;]] [[Whereas the pursuit of an adaptive military force also opens up scope for (military) categories of function which may extend the employment age;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of broadening the current maximum age in the provision of relations and thereby contributing to the adaptive armed forces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Belhaj, Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Ploumen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Bosman, Mr Diks, Mr Öztürk, Mr Karabulut and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u391	I promised to answer the PVV, because they had visited our website again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u392	But you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u393	So I suggest that I personally report to the PVV what I think of the position on the D66 website.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u394	I think that's a good suggestion. We will continue to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA, for her second term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u395	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has taken the decision to move the Financial Service Centre of Eygelshoven to Utrecht and does not comply with several commitments made to the Chamber;]] [[noting that an appropriate alternative location has been found in Kerkrade which is suitable for the FSC at no high cost;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the proposed decision on the relocation of the Financial Service Centre to Utrecht and to replace it by the decision to move the FSC to Kerkrade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u396	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the implementation of the Eijsink/Segers motion (34000-X, No. 24) has led to greater attention being paid to the home front and the cabinet indicates that it attaches great importance to the well-being of the home front both before and during and after missions;]] [[Whereas there is an in-depth inventory of the wishes of the home front to provide an insight into how existing services can fit in with them;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an annual home front check looking at the outcomes and learning points to ensure that existing services are in line with these outcomes in order to meet the needs of the home front,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u397	My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas employers have a particular responsibility to ensure the social security of their workers;]] [[having noted that in recent years a series of military incidents have come out about what happened to them during a so-called initiation ritual;]] [[noting that there is a great reluctance to report sexually unwanted behaviour, intimidation and humiliation;]] [[noting that there is a possibility for military personnel to be assisted in the notification or declaration by a trusted person coordinator but insufficient attention is paid to the period after the notification or declaration and aftercare may play an important role in the processing of traumatic experience;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that after an incident has been reported there is an opportunity for aftercare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u398	Mr President, my final motion concerns hazing and the code of conduct. We talked to the Secretary of State about that. The code of conduct has five pillars. One of these pillars has as its content or appeal: I am integrity and treat everyone with respect. In my view, it would really strengthen the Secretary of State's argument if she also explicitly wrote under that pillar that hazing is explicitly prohibited. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intimidation and sexual violence in the Dutch armed forces are unacceptable;]] [[Whereas hazing is an important part of the culture in military service, which often leads to unacceptable practices;]] [[Whereas efforts to avoid the link between hazing and derailment are inadequate;]] [[calls on the Government to include an explicit ban on hazing in the Code of Conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u399	Thank you to the Minister and to the Secretary of State. This debate was at the beginning of the reigning period and was necessarily still at large, because we still have the Defence Note and the International Security Strategy. A number of questions remain unanswered, but I look forward to further discussions with the Minister and the Secretary of State. I thank all the people in the armed forces, whatever their role there, who are committed to keeping us and the world safe and secure. We have a responsibility to ensure that nothing happens to them that would have been prevented. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u400	Then we come to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union for his contribution in the second term. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u401	Mr. Chairman. As my speaking time is still very limited, I am going to read out my motions immediately. First of all, I would like to thank the two rulers for their clear answers. The first motion is about mental care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mental care has played a crucial role in exposing the Schaarsbergen issue;]] [[noting that a two-day mental care conference in the initial training of all military personnel is mandatory, except for the cadets of the army;]] [[noting that the number of participants in the broadcasting conferences provided by the spiritual caretakers of Defence has declined in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to make the two-day mental care conference a permanent part of the training of the army cadets and to encourage military participation in the mental care conferences prior to broadcasting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Bosman, Mr Ploumen and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u402	Mr President, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 100 of the Constitution, the Government provides the States General with information on the deployment of the armed forces to maintain or promote the international legal order;]] [[Whereas the Security Research Council recommends that, prior to a final decision on participation in an international military mission, and in the event of modifications to the mission, it be made clear whether and how the safety and health of military personnel to be deployed are ensured;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the review framework for participation in international missions can include clear and verifiable criteria for the safety and medical care of Dutch military personnel during international missions, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u403	Finally, I wish all the military on mission a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u404	Then we come to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the rulers for the answer. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that this cabinet is a welcome and necessary start with an increase in the Defence budget, but only for this cabinet period;]] [[Whereas large and long-term investments also require a long-term perspective on the development of the Defence budget;]] [[having regard to the agreement in Wales in 2014 to grow to the NATO standard over a period of 10 years;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete proposals in the forthcoming Defence Paper to develop a long-term perspective for Defence in the light of NATO agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u406	Hearing the debate, it is not necessary, given the time, to repeat the discussion. We have also had this point by way of interruption. I'd like to hear the government's verdict. I have to say that in the debates I have had this week, all the plenary debates have been voted off, all my motions have been voted off and all the amendments have been voted off. I can't put the ball further for the purpose!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u407	Maybe you'll have better luck on Tuesday, but I'll leave that to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u408	It's not gonna happen again this week, but a positive opinion from the cabinet would be a great help. There is an aftercare available, or home care. What was that called again? Mr President, I should like to sincerely thank the rulers for what they are doing here and wish them much wisdom. It's quite a job for the Department of Defense. I wish them and all the soldiers God's blessing and certainly the military on mission a safe return home. Let's think about their home front, that sometimes it's just as hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u409	Thank you, Mr. Dijkgraaf. Respect for the many hours you have spent in this room this week. Mr Öztürk has the floor for the second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u410	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Let me follow Mr Dijkgraaf and ask him for my only motion from the rulers if they wish to give 'judge chamber'. I thank them both for their answers, including the written answers. It remains for me to table an important motion. Yesterday, too, there is a huge need for society to have a permanent moment for the drama in Srebrenica. I think it is a good thing that I also ask for the support of my colleagues in the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are about 3,800 war monuments in our country;]] [[Whereas there are thousands of survivors of the drama in Srebrenica residing in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultations with representatives of the next of kin on the establishment of a permanent monument in the Netherlands to commemorate the drama in Srebrenica,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u411	Now that both directors are present again, we can begin with the second term on the part of the directors. To this end, I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Defence to answer the questions which have been put to her and to qualify the motions for resolutions tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Secretary of State, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input and for their positive response to the proposal on the preparation of the Defence Note. In any case, there is an open attitude on our part to discuss this with you. I think only a few questions have been asked to me. After replying to that, I will pass the motions on my property. Mr Bosman's first question was about the delivery of mail around Saturday and Christmas. I don't really know whether it was put to me or the Secretary of State. Let me say this, I have seen on the home front days how important that is. Mr Bosman mentioned this himself in his story. I myself was with Omroep MAX on such a home front day. It'll be broadcast around Christmas. I saw many mothers and children who like to say something to their partners and their fathers. They wanted to deliver the drawings they showed. We understand the point and we will see what is possible to have the mail delivered. We understand very well that there is quite a lot of demand from our people on the air, anywhere. Then it's nice when there's personal attention from home. So we will do our best to see what we can do about it. Fortunately, Mr Bosman himself said: I also understand that what cannot be done cannot be done. But we'll do our best. I was pleased to hear Mr Bosman say that he very much agrees with the choice we have made not to bury the Chamber under piles of paper. I have already promised the Chamber that we will look together to see how we can do things as well as possible. I am glad that Mr Bosman repeated that point. I honestly think you can drown in paper. I don't think that's the idea. In the few weeks that the Secretary of State and I have been in office, we have seen that there is an enormous amount of paper. I can tell you that our officials are very good at producing paper. We appreciate that both may be slightly different. I can also tell you that the Secretary of State has eaten more files, so to speak, than I have, but I have been abroad. I myself have the impression that it could also be a little less for us. Which makes me think you could do a little better, too. That is what I wanted to say on my part. Then I would like to address in all seriousness a point that Mrs Diks raised and which you mentioned in the first term: what is our intrinsic motivation to do this work? As I said at the start, the intrinsic motivation for me is to restore the trust of the staff in the organisation, but also of the trust of the Dutch, of everyone who lives here, that people can do their work well supported and everyone can go on the road with confidence to do their job. Mrs Diks mentioned that again in second term. That's the motivation for us to do this job. Mrs Diks, you also referred a bit to the confidence in us in relation to trying to deal with such a Defence Note as transparently as possible. Maybe that's a little new for the Defense Organization. We really want to try to see how we can do that in common. Mrs. Bruins Slot said one team, one task. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u413	That's the creed of the Air Force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u414	That's the creed of the Air Force. It did fit in nicely with the previous point, because that is how we stand in it. We can only do it right by setting an example ourselves. If you want to restore trust in the organization and the trust of the organization in the leadership, then that is in the broad sense, then I think you can only do this well by setting an example yourself and putting everyone where their talent or quality is. This applies to political and administrative management, but also to the administration of the organisation. I consider the team a little broader in that sense. Of course, that has to do with the way you've been used to looking at that in your previous lives. I think it is only right that the political and administrative leadership and the administration should have the same vision of the task. For that, of course, you have to divide the roles. I did say to the Secretary of State: Mrs Bruins Slot likes hockey more; she has done very well in the past. If I had to put it in hockey terms, I'd say I'd have to be a little bit of the midmid who'd watch it go on. I think I have only to answer the questions put by Mrs Karabulut. Her first question concerns the legal framework. I owed her the answer to that question. I referred to the second deadline for this. Her question was: can the legal framework proposed by the CTIVD be shared with the Chamber? I must refer Mrs Karabulut to the CTIVD report and the accompanying letter from my predecessor of 26 September 2016. I know by now that this was also from before her time as a defence spokesperson, but it sets out the legal framework in detail. In short, the legal framework outlined by the CTIVD provides the following: "It must be stated first of all that the provision of data by the STIBD which can contribute to a targeting process is not necessarily unlawful. However, the provision of data must comply with the requirements of necessity, due diligence and due diligence. The provision of data is unlawful if STUDY accepts an unacceptable risk or if it contributes to unlawful use of force. In case of concrete evidence that data provided contributed to unlawful use of force, the cooperation with the I&V service in question should be re-weighted." Those are the frameworks within which surgery is performed. This is stated in the letter of 26 September 2016 "I repeat it once again for you and that new direction has been taken by my predecessor. On the point of safe schools, I will return to the discussion of the motion. Mrs. Belhaj didn't have a question. Neither is Mrs Ploumen. I think the rest can be dealt with in the motions. I will now deal with the motions I think I should deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u415	We are about to start, but first Mr Bosman wants to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u416	It's about participation. I might not have asked so much a question as a communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u417	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u418	My point was about the importance of participation. How does the Minister and the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u419	It wasn't so much a question, I thought, but I can take it as a question. I share your view on this. That is not because you happen to have been on the co-decision board or committee, but because I think it is very important to talk to participation in a broad sense. They're all involved people all the time. The Secretary of State and I intend to talk to people from high to low in the organization anyway. We've already put that in. For example, in preparation for the budget, we have allowed a group of people who are not high in the organisation to come from all over the country to talk about the things they are experiencing. Let me elaborate on two more sentences. Before I took this position, I was chairman of the jury for the government manager of the year. I've done that for years. After the written preliminaries we always started talking to the candidates, to the leaders of the candidates, but also to the participation, because you only hear how things are going in the organisation. In that sense, I share what you have put forward. That's the point we'll take up. We said to each other, when we heard you say that, or when we heard Mr Bosman say that, I still have to get used to my new role, because I was more used to sitting in your place than standing here, in recent years...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u420	Perhaps you could come here again with your ambitions, who can say? But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u421	I'll talk nicely through the chairman, I just wanted to say. We will take that up by looking at our work visits and seeing that as an important part. Mr. Chairman. Well, then I've gotten to the motions. I shall begin with the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma/Popken on part No. 34. I must dissuade it, because it is completely contrary to what we stand for. The interim motions will be dealt with by the Secretary of State. The motion by Mrs Bruins Slot, Mrs Belhaj and Mr Voordewind in part No. 40 I consider as an incentive to consider cyber as a fully-fledged fifth military domain. I should like to leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u422	Madam Secretary, I always have to repeat that. Oh, no, I don't. Excuse me, it's all right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u423	The motion in part No. 40 was judgment room. I had to look into the new terminology, but I thought it was okay now. The Secretary of State will deal with the motion in section No. 41. Then I come to the Karabulut motion on part No. 42 on the General Court of Auditors. We're already doing this. It is up to you to take care of it yourself, when we are talking about roll resistance. The Court of Auditors is yours. We wouldn't recommend it. You have to deal with the Court of Auditors yourself, if you want to, but do not ask us. We don't recommend it, or you'll have to pick it up yourself. Then I come to the Karabulut/Ploumen motion on part No. 43 on the Safe Schools Declaration. What's written here is policy in progress. Humanitarian law of war applies to Dutch military. That goes beyond just securing schools, but it's also about churches, museums and mosques, so we're already doing this. In this sense, it is policy support. Then the motion is superfluous, if I understand correctly. Or should I dissuade these?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u424	Then you shouldn't advise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u425	We're gonna do it, and I'm gonna have to advise against it. It's policy support, we're already doing it. I also explained why we're doing it. That's why I have to advise against it. Then I come to the Belhaj c.s. motion. in piece No. 45. I also consider it an incentive, and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. We are, of course, dependent on the financial commitment that we can make on this, but you will see that when we fill it out. Then I come to the Ploumen/Vordewind motion in part No. 48. I have just said something very positive about the home front to Mrs Ploumen and Mr Voordewind. We have therefore also carried out the previous motion. The home front check has been answered in full in writing; I would like to remind you of that written reply. I would really like to advise against doing an annual home front check in the context of less paper. We understand the intention. Everything we do, with the home front days and with the support of the home front, is done precisely to meet the needs of the home front. In the context of reducing reporting, I would advise you not to have a home front check carried out every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u426	An interruption by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u427	I would like to inform the Minister that we are not dealing with reports and paperwork. We are concerned with the fact that the Defense Department is constantly digging into often changing conditions for the home front, for example, depending on the mission or on developments in the family. Again, no paperwork, but I'd like to check every year if we're doing the right thing. That should actually be a standing policy, but we would like to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u428	Okay, but I think that's a policy that's already in place. I am also very convinced that it is important that we check this and that we also check whether it is still in line with the needs that exist or that other care should be provided. We also support everything in this area. In this sense, therefore, we do not need such an incentive. If you do not ask for a report to the Chamber, I have less difficulty with it, but if I do have to report on it then I simply have difficulty with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u429	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u430	Once again, we are not concerned with extensive reports, but it could well be part of a budget debate. If you inform us of this at any time once a year, so that we really know your commitment, I think that would be very good for the home front too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u431	Fine. As it stands, I would not recommend it, but I would like to devote a passage to this in the annual report and the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u432	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u433	There seems to be a solution. Mrs. Ploumen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u434	Finally. Mrs Bruins Slot suggests that perhaps the Veterans' Note could be included. We leave that up to you, but that seems to me to be a good suggestion. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u435	It could be. At least I'm not going to send you an annual report. That has become quite clear to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u436	Wait a minute, now I'm gonna step in. If you say 'it could', it is important for colleagues to know what this does to your judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u437	I take the current wording in the motion in such a way that I have to send the results and teaching points to the Chamber. I don't feel anything like that. I didn't recommend it. As I said, I would be happy to include a heading on the home front in the budget and in the annual report, if not already, and report on it underneath. Or I'll get it into the Veterans' Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u438	Fine. Then I see that you are deceiving this motion and making all the other arrangements with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u439	Yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u440	I see Mrs Karabulut has come to the interrupting microphone, but Mr Voordewind was already there. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u441	I'm a co-signator of this motion. I think Mrs Ploumen and I can live well with the explanation given by the Minister. In that way, I think it could also be Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u442	If you then her so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u443	Just a second, I'm sorry. Mr Voordewind says he is a co-signator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u444	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u445	Yes. You're absolutely right, Minister. Excuse me. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u446	Mr Voordewind is a co-signatory of the motion in part No. 48. If I may interpret her like that, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. But then I interpret her that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u447	But the text will have to be changed. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u448	Life can be very simple from time to time. I think this fits perfectly with the Veterans' Note. Then you just add a note with the learning points on it. And then we say, "Oh, what good, Minister, what are you going to do about it?" And then you say, "You know what, I'll record it in the Veterans' Note." So that's really a perfect moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u449	And doesn't the text need to be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply trying to steer the debate. I just want you to know what you have to advise your group and that you know what it says. The text is now as it is. The Minister gives an opinion on this. You can discuss what you want to discuss with other notes and so on, but I think we should start from what is written here or from what you are giving. Mrs Karabulut, you would also like to say something on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u451	It does have something to do with this indirectly. Because if this is standing policy and the Minister ultimately gives "judge chamber" with her interpretation, why should the motion on the Safe Schools Declaration, which is also standing policy according to the Minister, not be "judge chamber"? Then I don't understand the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u452	No, I understand that, but I said I didn't want to report to the Chamber every year. That is why I had difficulty with this text, despite the fact that there is a lot of standing policy of what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u453	There are two signatories to this motion. That is Mrs Ploumen and Mr Voordewind. The text is as it is now, but it may still be possible to adapt it. Or not. Then we know what the Minister has to judge, and you have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u454	Also to avoid unnecessary paper use: it is also used that if a minister says that she would like to explain the motion in this way, we can say that we can live with it. Then we can avoid a lot of paper. This is part of the debate. That can be referred to at the time when the motion has to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u455	Fine. If you've made that clear, we can move on to the next motion. Mrs Karabulut still has a question about that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u456	Well, my question is still unanswered. I do realize that in response to this advice, I raise a question about a previous motion, the motion in part No. 43, but I think it is a very justified question that comes to my mind, even if I say so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u457	I understand the point, but I have said that I am in this motion something other than in your motion. An annual check needs to be done here that I do not want to perform and that I do not want to report on. With your motion, it's a stand-alone policy. I explained that and read it. That is why I have reached my verdict. I really don't see it the way you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u458	But if the policy is standing and I just want to be a little more active here, and that really doesn't even need to be informed every year and that other partners, for example, are called upon to do so, then it could also be 'judge chamber' and we could discuss this on occasion. That is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u459	Mrs Karabulut, I will give the Minister the floor in a moment. But you submit a motion, you all have the right to submit a motion, then the Minister or the Secretary of State has the right to give an opinion on it. You can be happy or happy, or unhappy. I would ask the Minister to give another qualification on the motion you have tabled. And that's what we're gonna have to do, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u460	I see no reason to change the qualification of net.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u461	Then I'll establish that. Proceed with the examination of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u462	The Secretary of State will be on the motions on the documents No. 49, 50 and 51. What in the motion to part No. Mr Voordewind's 52 is actually already in the review framework, and that is something we need to clarify now. The motion states: verifiable criteria for the safety and medical care of Dutch soldiers during international missions. If you look at diplomats abroad, for example, there are always different forms of medical care in different countries. That's localized. You can't just make measurable criteria out of that. So when it comes to the review framework, we always go along with these things and then report and talk to you about them, but we really shouldn't do this. So in itself it is superfluous in terms of criteria, because it is already in the review framework. I would therefore like to discourage the motion, also bearing in mind that there are different forms of medical care in different countries and many more people have to do with it. Think of the diplomats of the State Department, for example. Then I come to the motion on part No. 53. Well, now I hope Mr Dijkgraaf will go on the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u463	Madam Minister, Mr Voordewind would like to ask you one more question, and I think that is the one on the motion for a resolution. 52 goes. It is, I think, useful if we give priority to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u464	In the written reply, the Minister goes beyond merely standing policy, which states that these aspects and also the security aspects can now be explicitly included in the Article 100 letters. That's actually what the minister says she's gonna do. I was happy about that. The question in the motion then was whether this should also be explicitly included in the review framework. That was actually more of a question or an investigation than I'm saying it should be done right away. So it doesn't avoid each other much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u465	Okay, but I'm reading it like this. In the motion in part No. 52 the government is invited to examine how the review framework for participation in international missions can include clear, verifiable criteria for the safety and medical care of Dutch military personnel during international missions. The written answer is the written answer, but this should apply to all kinds of people and I do not see it coming together that way. What you want is in the review framework, as I have already indicated in the answer, and that is what we are going to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u466	Finalizing, Mr Voordewind. So far, the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u467	I understand the Minister's intention. If it is indeed in line with the written reply, namely that these aspects are explicitly included in Article 100 letters, then we understand each other and I do not need to submit the motion either. It was more of a hand-out towards the review framework. As long as it's done, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u468	It's definitely gonna be done. We will also include this in the briefings and address it in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u469	Then I withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u470	Since the Voordewind motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u471	Then all I have left is the motion in part No. 54, o no, the motion in part No. 53. Yes, I was at Mr Dijkgraaf's happy moment, because he was so pathetic and made such an impression, because nothing had been accepted in all these days. Now I cannot make you happy in that sense, because the vote is not this week, but I hope for you that it will succeed next week. We would like to make the assessment of the motion on item No. To leave 53 to the Chamber. You will then have to collect the aid yourself; you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u472	In fact, I am a little disappointed, because the most beautiful motions always seem to me to be the ones that have been dissuaded and are then adopted, but all the stress and disappointment of this week are now gone, so I thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u473	I hope you have a good weekend then. Then I come to the motion on part No. 54. I had the motion in part no. 53 just almost skipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u474	One second, because Mrs Belhaj would like to ask you one more question. What motion is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u475	Mr President, this is the Dijkgraaf motion. I don't mean to be unkind, but this motion does have far-reaching implications. What is being asked here is whether you want to put the financial consequences of NATO agreements on a multiannual basis. I would like to make that quite clear here, because if you are going to add 2 to 3 billion towards 2023, which I believe is the intention of this motion, I would like to make that clear. Sorry about Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u476	Well, it doesn't say that. The recital in the motion is to move towards the NATO standard over a period of ten years. That's the deal. That was agreed in Wales and confirmed in Warsaw. What I see here is what Mr Dijkgraaf also said in his speech, namely that you have to draw long lines and that you have to look long-term. He has given a number of examples of other dossiers in which that is also the case. I actually read that in this motion for a resolution. That's how I interpret it, and that's why I gave the judgment I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u477	Finalizing, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u478	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Putting "long-term" means doubling the current Defence budget, i.e. 7 or 8 billion towards 2023. That is the intention and the aim of the NATO standard, but I do not know if that is your intention. If it is your intention to see to what extent, for example, you can put material into some kind of investment fund, that is something other than saying that you are going to process the financial implications of that agreement in Wales on a multiannual basis. That would be another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u479	You're establishing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u480	I read the request, apart from the considerations. It states: "calls on the government to make concrete proposals in the forthcoming Defence Note to develop a long-term perspective for Defence in the light of NATO agreements." That's what it says. That is why I gave the judgment as I gave it. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u481	It's your judgment. I see Mr Bosman is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u482	Just to be clear, this is not about a commitment of a financial attachment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u483	No, it's about a long-term perspective for the Defense Department on those long lines. That's how I read this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u484	And there's no money attached to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u485	Wait a minute, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u486	No, not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u487	Mr Bosman has asked a question. It's just been answered by the Minister. You have not yet had your turn on this motion, so I would like to give you that opportunity. But then I would also like to go to a conclusion, because there seem to be more and more questions when the qualification of the motion has already been given. I am also saying this in the direction of the Minister and the petitioner. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u488	8 billion, rule over your own grave! But I would like to ask the author of the motion what his intention is with this motion. I read the motion as well as Mrs Belhaj reads it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u489	Now we're getting a weird figure. I want to facilitate everything here, but what we are dealing with is that someone has tabled a motion, namely Mr Dijkgraaf. He had the opportunity to comment on the motion when it was tabled. You could have asked about that, too. This has happened now. The Minister replied to comments made by Mr Dijkgraaf and various colleagues. I'm afraid or I'm giving people happiness. It might be just how you look at it, how you interpret it, and so on. But Mr Voordewind has not yet asked a question about it. Perhaps he could ask the Minister another question which could lead to a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u490	Mr. Chairman. After three very long days of meetings, it would still be sad if we ended very early tonight. We should only continue this tradition for a little while longer. I am also curious about the interpretation of the author. The Minister puts the emphasis on a long-term perspective...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u491	No, on the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u492	But the second part also has financial consequences. Does the author have both a long-term perspective and an increasing budget? Then we'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u493	I'm telling you, I'm curious now, too. Let us invite Mr Dijkgraaf to present his intention very briefly from the interrupting microphone. And we're not going to have a discussion about that intention. The Minister may give an opinion on this matter. That is the outcome of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u494	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. I think it's literally there. I couldn't agree more with the Minister's judgment. I think I have made it very clear in my speech that this is about the system. I said the system should be leading. How can we as a Chamber and a government, because I do not see it as a government versus Chamber, but collectively; Mrs Eijsink has also mentioned this in previous debates, given a long-term system? I think we are going to have a long discussion about this. But I'm more concerned with the system than with the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u495	I shall give the floor to the Minister in response to Mr Dijkgraaf's words, in which he has given further consideration or repeated it, but how he himself sees it with regard to his interpretation of the motion. I would ask the Minister to give that a further qualification. That could be a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u496	I have therefore understood the motion as Mr Dijkgraaf explains it. It's about the system. Mr Dijkgraaf, I recall that you also mentioned the MIRT systems and other systems. If we look at it for such a long time, it can not help us to get defence investments to be deployed more along the long lines. That's how I understood it. That is how I read the text of the motion and that is how I explained the motion. And I have also left the considerations aside, because I have concentrated on the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u497	Finally, if the system were to lead to the conclusion that extra money would have to be provided, it would always require a very separate decision by the government with the agreement of the Chamber. So, of course, there's no way that... Then it would also be a completely uncovered motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u498	We're not used to that from you. We are now going to let the Minister deal with the last aspect. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u499	If it were, I should have advised against the motion. I've given you the explanation. It has been confirmed by Mr Dijkgraaf, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u500	We're going to the motion in part no. 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u501	Yeah, I'd have gotten there by now. It is a motion by Mr Öztürk. I assume that Mr Öztürk has read our written answers. It says there's already a monument. Although not in the Netherlands, there is a place where we are commemorated and where we hang the flag half-stick on the day of the commemoration. We contribute in different ways. Every year the Netherlands is represented at the memorial in Potocari, at the cemetery of the victims. That's where a whole memorial center was opened last year. The Netherlands also made a financial contribution to that memory centre. We think Potocari is the right place for the permanent monument. So that's where it's located. Of course, everyone is free to strive for a monument, but it is not obvious that Defence plays a further role in this. That doesn't mean I don't want to talk to representatives of next of kin to hear how they experience it. I'd like to do that. I would like to have the conversation, but you must see that it is not our intention at this time to establish a permanent monument in the Netherlands. The conversation, fine, but in a monument we have already invested in another place. I'd be happy to see what else is there, especially since the drama is on the retina with all of us today. This has been addressed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u502	Before I give the floor to Mr Öztürk, I would like to hear your opinion. I may have missed it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u503	I'd like to have the meeting. In that sense, I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I'm not gonna talk about... No, I'm sorry. I must discourage the motion, because the monument is mentioned in the operative part. But I do want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u504	I would like to thank the Minister for wanting to talk to survivors' organisations to see if she could do more. That's a first step. I don't think the argument of sending everyone to the place where it happened is strong. More than 30,000 next of kin live in the Netherlands. They need to have a permanent monument in a place in the Netherlands, where they can remember their pain and remember the terrible events. I don't think this is much to ask. We have 3,800 monuments, including the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u505	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u506	That's what the DOD's gonna be involved in. I would ask the Minister to do something more than what she has promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u507	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u508	I've said enough about it. We have already contributed to a monument in a certain place. That's what we've been talking about. I want to talk to the people, but I advise against this motion because we are not in favour of creating a monument in the Netherlands. There's already one place, and we're contributing to that. Last year, I believe, the Foreign Minister was present in Potocari. That's what we do. Talking to people about their experience and what else we could do, I'm willing to do that. But it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u509	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u510	Too bad the Minister doesn't want to go any further than that. I think we will continue to fight for a permanent monument in the Netherlands where people can land to commemorate. I would like to call on my colleagues to support this question from the people who are entitled to it next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u511	I've come to the end of my term. I would once again like to thank the Chamber for its input and look forward to further cooperation in the run-up to the Defence Note, which I hope we are going to take together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u512	Then we will go on to the Secretary of State for Defence to answer the questions that have been put to her, as well as her qualification on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u513	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input today. I will deal with the motions that have been tabled, but there are also a number of outstanding questions. I shall begin with Mrs Bruins Slot's question on the 197 million from the previous budget and the 39 million in the context of repairing the gap in the middle. I hope I have correctly interpreted Mrs Bruins Slot's question. If not, we will see if we can take it off in another way. It seems that there has been a misunderstanding, because with the intensification of the 197 million, basic readiness can be restored. Of these, 39 million were used for the formation budget. This is part of the restoration of human readiness. Moreover, it is not the only budget that goes to that basic readiness. I refer to the Van der Staaij motion. Ascending to 2020, it will be structuralally about 470 million going towards the recovery of basic readiness. With that additional 37 million there is structural budget for more than 98% of the human budget, but perhaps we do not understand each other on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u514	Basic readiness implies material readiness, human readiness and practicability. The Secretary of State is actually saying that we have made extra money available to ensure that we can keep certain people in the Defence Organisation, or at least pay them. Because that is, of course, the middle-sum problem. On the human side, it contributes to the basic readiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u515	Yeah, for the middle-sum problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u516	Solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u517	In a number of questions back and forth it has become clear. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u518	I think so, or we'll come back to this later. Mrs Bruins Slot also had a question about what I interpret as visibility. She said: the pop-up store is one thing, but I think your call was in particular: do more. Of course, more things are being done. I did not mention them in my first term, but I mention, for example, soldiers who go to primary schools, in the 7th and 8th grade, to tell you about their experiences. You yourself talked about making the swearing-in take place visibly in the public domain. Furthermore, I call exercises: they also make things very visible, both in cities and in the countryside. We recently had a great terror exercise that was done in Amsterdam. That, of course, makes it very concrete what is being done in the field of security. I see your call, above all, as a task for both of us to increase confidence in the Defence Organisation in both personnel and society in the coming period. Actually, all the members said that. You do this by being clear, visible and transparent and working on it. It is a cry of hearts which we endorse in terms of visibility. For example, there were more cries of hearts, for example about participation, to which the Minister referred in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u519	I thought you were out, but this is a different theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u520	I have a short question. The Minister has promised Mrs Popken, Mrs Agema and I to look at the uniform ban. When do the two directors expect to inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u521	Beginning next year. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the outstanding questions. Then I would like to discuss the motions that have been tabled. I shall begin with the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma/Popken on part No. 35. It might be a good thing to stress that there is no pay-off on military service. Defence does have an arrangement whereby the necessary sum can be borrowed interest-free, but it has to be repaid. I'm going to discourage this motion. That is because, if we want to adapt this, we must consult the unions on this. They also have to approve it. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u522	I think that's kind of crazy advice. Not only has a motion already been adopted in December 2011 by Lower House... the highest body... to abolish the regime. That motion was passed but apparently not carried out. Two months ago, questions were raised by members Van Dam and Knops, both of the CDA, to Minister Blok, who replied that he abolished the regime in the police, but that the Ministry of Defence is still working on it. If you are now going to say to the PVV 'I'm going to discourage the motion', when there is already an adopted motion, this has been our initiative for many years and Defence would be in conversation, I think this is a crazy judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u523	I also mentioned the reason. The Ministry of Security and Justice has now been able to do so by the Ministry of Justice and Security, because it has reached agreement with police trade organisations on this matter last spring. You need to be in agreement with the consultative bodies, with the unions, in order to do this. That is precisely why it has not happened in the past period. The motion calls for an immediate end to the regime, but that is not possible. We need the consent of the unions. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u524	Mrs. Agema, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u525	Mr President, if I take 'immediately' out, is the motion for a resolution Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u526	I don't know, but we're not gonna do cow business here. You may ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u527	What the Secretary of State says is not entirely correct. I should then quote a bit from the answer to the written questions by Minister Blok. Those questions were answered in September last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u528	I do not think we should go along with that. You are asking whether it would have any effect if you changed anything in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u529	If I take "immediately" out of the operative part of the motion, is the motion then judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u530	I'm not going to answer that question for you. Then I'll go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u531	Then the motion would be judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u532	Okay, then we'll send out an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u533	Then the "judgment chamber" becomes after you make that change to the motion. Am I saying that right? I'm looking at the Secretary of State now. I note that the Secretary of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u534	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 36 we advise against. We have already said that we want to take a positive look at the motion on item No. 37, on fossil-free Friesland. We leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 38 is about delegation of personnel decisions. In particular, we see the call to see how we can ensure that we place the responsibility where it could take place in a good way. We also leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 39 we have already exchanged many words, even during this debate. With that framework, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 41 tabled by Mrs Karabulut and others on the F-35. I just sent a letter to the Chamber about the F-35, stating what we're going to do with it. For this reason, I would advise against the motion, because a decision has been taken on it, and that goes on. Then the motion to part No. 44 on diversity in defence, tabled by Ms Belhaj et al. In my first-term contribution, I said that we are engaged in a policy plan inclusiveness and diversity. I would ask Mrs Belhaj to hold on to the motion for a resolution so that we can look at it on the basis of the policy plan. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u535	I think this is in line with the plan the Secretary of State will come up with, if I have listened carefully. If there are things in the motion that the Secretary of State says aren't included in her plan, then I understand she's deceiving the motion. If it does intend to include such elements in its plan, it could leave the motion at the discretion of the Chamber and see the motion as a fantastic support for all the plans it will come up with in terms of diversity. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u536	On the one hand, the motion says that all kinds of things should not be done, and on the other hand it says in the motion that all kinds of things should be done. That is why I ask the authors to hold the motion. On the basis of the policy plan, they will then be able to assess whether the points put forward are sufficiently relevant. We do not want to take over the motion in this form at the moment. We're not gonna do that. I would like to discuss the policy plan with the authors of the motion. The motion also states that there should be annual staff reports and such. That means obligations and reports. On the basis of the analysis we have made, we want to see what works and what does not. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I would like to take the liberty of waiting for the policy plan, which includes research. At that time, the authors of the motion will be able to look at what they find to be the right instrument to gain more insight into this and to receive reports on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u537	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u538	I move on to Amendment No 46, tabled by Mrs Belhaj and some other Members, on the extension of the age criterion. I suggest we take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u539	Then I must take a critical look at everyone in this Chamber, in order to establish that there is no objection to this. That is not the case. I note that the motion in part No. 46 has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u540	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u541	Then I come to the motion on part No. 47, tabled by Mrs Ploumen, on Eygelshoven. We have talked about this. I would point out that the debate is not just about finance, but also about how we can ensure that we organise the financial administration in a better way. That is why we have made this choice. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 47.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u542	Please continue. There won't be any questions and I wouldn't provoke them. Please proceed to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u543	Mr President, I shall now turn to Mrs Ploumen's motion and Mrs Karabulut's motion for a resolution. 43. This is standing policy when it comes to adequate aftercare. That would make this motion superfluous, but I have heard you, Mrs Ploumen, say throughout the debate that you are concerned about it. And that's exactly why we're doing the investigation. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion. If the motion is tabled in this way, I say: it is superfluous and for that reason I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u544	What I am trying to do, and I believe that the Secretary of State and I agree with each other, is to make the people who are about to report to the external committee that she has temporarily set up feel safe enough to report. But they should also be able to rely on aftercare. If you've kept such a story to yourself for ten years and you're gonna tell it, you can't just walk out the door like nothing happened. The intention of me is really to guarantee that extra to the people involved. I think that's something the Secretary of State and the Minister want. I really want to take a look at the wording, but I think it is something we really need to establish here. The people who have gathered the courage to report must be given the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u545	Does this lead to another judgment, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u546	I have some doubts, because I understand Mrs Ploumen's appeal and the thrust of her motion. I also indicated that that is the intention and policy of the Defense Department. That would make that motion unnecessary. That's why I'm just looking for what you... maybe you, Mrs Ploumen, can catch her for a while. I would ask you to do so, because perhaps you will come to the conclusion that this is the time to bring it up again. I'd like to give you that. But if the policy is standing, then the rule that we have agreed here is that a motion is superfluous. That's why I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u547	In all honesty, I'm having a little trouble judging that unnecessaryness. We've been debating it for two days now. It's important business. We try to do good things with the Chamber and without political strife. I would say: if there is a moment to raise a hand, it is now. Again, I want to make her more precise as the people know that there is specific attention for them in the aftercare. They should be able to count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u548	As far as the word 'unnecessary' is concerned, that is the qualification given by the Minister, which, according to the system we use, leads to discouragement. That does not mean that you, Mrs Ploumen, have to find out. To get out, the Secretary of State suggests that you hold the motion. Secretary of State, respond one last time. You wanted to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u549	Mr President, I think we have exchanged what we have exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u550	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u551	You yourself indicate the system for the assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u552	The question to Mrs Ploumen is whether she wishes to continue the motion. Mrs Ploumen, perhaps you'll get somewhere. If you don't want to do that, this is the State Secretary's verdict. As Members of Parliament, we should or should not do something with that. So we're going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u553	Mr President, I am considering it, but I think it really is a missed opportunity for the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u554	And "recorded" doesn't mean you're holding the motion. "Ready" means... Of course, you can do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u555	It means that I think about it and let the votes know what I will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u556	Fine. Mrs. Karabulut, you wanted to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u557	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It may be a policy on the ground, but the practice has of course been more often a different one. There are just a lot of examples of people who have not received aftercare or are not given enough. If the Secretary of State says 'we are already doing this' after having seen the problems in practice with us in a day's debate, she can and should, in my view, see this as support for policy. That is separate from what is going to come of improvements, because there are now, the moment that we speak, people who do not get that aftercare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u558	Let us avoid repeating ourselves. Anyway, I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer you, Mrs Karabulut. But I do feel like it's about the same thing. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u559	It is. That is why I tried to state that I understand the meaning of your call. You are right to state that it is standing policy when it comes to aftercare. But there's a reason we're doing an after-care investigation. That is exactly why I am asking for the motion to be held. This is exactly the subject of the investigation. If your call is that we call on people to report and that we are going to do everything we can, including in the framework of external research, to provide that safe environment: yes. Well, let me confirm that, then. So that's our standing policy, too. Yes, Mr President, we are now actually returning to the system of assessment of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u560	Yeah, but we're not gonna have that discussion here. Your judgment is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u561	I get the call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u562	You come through the system to dissuade. My fellow Members are unhappy about this, so I would like to say, but they may be able to hold the motion. I must also state what the verdict is on the motions that have been tabled. You can ask one more question and we can ask one more question, but unless the motion changes, and with that the judgment, really for the last sentence, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u563	I'm just sticking to your appointments to ask two questions. If this is investigated, it also means that it is being examined because it does not work in practice. Again, I would like to call on the Secretary of State, for all those people who don't get that aftercare right now, to see this motion as a policy support alongside everything that happens. We can't wait for all these tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u564	There will be aftercare. The research is taking place to see what can be done better. I want to take away the picture that nothing is happening within the Defense Department right now to ensure that people are adequately helped. But I also note that there are signs that it is indeed not going well. We need to get them properly. In the investigation, we'll see what we can do better in there. I have tried to indicate how I look at it and that I understand the background to your call. I suggest you sleep on it. Maybe we can see what we can do on the weekends. But the judgment remains as it is shown, including the discussion we have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u565	Are we at the end with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u566	No, but I see Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u567	No, not yet. Definitely not! And Mrs Belhaj would also like to ask you a question about the motion we just... Isn't it? Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u568	I think I've better understood the Secretary of State on second thought. She would like this motion not to be included in the Defence Note or in the annual personnel reports, but in her diversity note. So I suggest I delete a few things. It's about the motion in part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u569	You are referring to the motion in part No. 44. I thought you were talking about the motion in part No. 49 had, but you're going back a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u570	I'm gonna go back. I will hold the motion for a moment and correct it as the Secretary of State indicates that she would like to include it in her diversity note. Then we can put that Tuesday to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u571	Will the motion be in part No. Forty-four arrested now? Or do you keep it in order to adjust it so that it can be put to the vote? I'm in a bit of despair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u572	The Secretary of State has indicated a number of things, such as the personnel reporting elements in the Defence Note. I conclude that that's a reason to discourage the motion. So I'm gonna change it and ask if those elements will come back in the diversity note. I'm gonna change that nicely. I can do it on the spot now and then the Secretary of State can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u573	I just want to know procedurally. You're going to change the motion and want it to be put to the vote. Yeah? Okay, well, I hear you say that here. Let me ask the Secretary of State whether that leads to another judgment or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u574	Mr President, I do not know what is being changed. Mrs Belhaj is going to amend the motion. We're just gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u575	Mrs. Belhaj, let me suggest this. You adjust your motion and have it circulated as usual. Then the Secretary of State could respond further or not, after seeing the text. Wouldn't that be the usual procedure in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u576	Yes, I'd like that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u577	Let's do that. Then I leave that to the Secretary of State and then inform the Chamber of her possible change of opinion. The Secretary of State will continue to deal with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u578	On the motion in part No. 50, including Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut, we are actually having the same discussion. I also have the same request, because the code of conduct is also being amended. There is now a conversation in the organization to see what can be better in that. Mrs Karabulut or Mrs Ploumen said something about the piece on integrity in the second term. I would actually ask you to hold this motion for a moment, because I want to be able to discuss it with the organisation and see what can and cannot be done in the entirety of that code of conduct. I understand your appeal that you want it to be mentioned very explicitly, but I would really like to be able to look together with the organisation at how we can adapt that code of conduct. I understand the petitioners' call and I am looking at them now with the question of whether they want to continue their motion, otherwise I have to discourage her because I also want to give space to the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u579	I'm inclined to hold her, but I'm gonna sleep on it for a while. I understand what the Secretary of State says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u580	So the motion has now been dissuaded and she may be arrested, but we will hear that from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u581	Dissuade, but with understanding of the call. Let's put it this way, to give it a different qualification. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 51 on the mental care of Mr Voordewind. I'll pass judgment on that Chamber. Mr President, I think I have passed through all the motions and answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u582	Yes. That is not disputed. You have both given the qualifications in respect of the motions. There are no more outstanding questions, at least no colleagues rushing forward. This means that we have come to the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u583	Mr. Chairman. May I thank the MPs for their input before you finish? Especially because many Members of Parliament have made very long days here this week, or because they were financial spokesmen or because they had to stand by. I think it's time to go home quickly for the MPs. I would also like to thank them for their input and I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u584	Thank you. Was there anything else you wanted to say, Mrs. Agema? No? I'm sorry, I thought you wanted to make another interruption or something. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-19.u585	I note that we are going to vote on Tuesday. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input and, in particular, the stenographers, who have actually been here until the last time after having been through so many hours. Thank you.
