ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on shortcomings in unsaturated ritual slaughter. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and, of course, the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand as the first speaker. Mrs Ouwehand speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. There's no such thing as animal-friendly slaughter. Animals enter the slaughterhouse alive and healthy and come out in pieces, so we don't have to tell ourselves that there is a heaven on earth for those animals in the meantime. What is certain is that slaughter for kept animals is the most stressful moment in their lives. That is why the legislator, the government and this Chamber have been convinced for almost 100 years that it is much necessary to impose the legal obligation. We have also done so that before an animal is slaughtered he is unconscious, so that he does not have to face his own slaughter in full consciousness. There is an exception to that rule for religious slaughter. For the sake of Islamic and Jewish religious freedom, it is estimated that millions of animals per year can be slaughtered without anesthesia in the Netherlands. There has been considerable social resistance to this for a long time. It was also said by the government, by then Minister Van Aartsen, that we must move towards the acceptance of stunning. This Chamber has adopted Mrs Thieme's bill, which states that the ban already in force on the unsaturated slaughter must become a total ban. That exception is no longer justified. The crucial question was: do we think that we should allow animals to suffer extra and unnecessarily seriously because of a belief. The answer of this Chamber was clear: no, that is not justified. Only the Christian parties voted against it. In the First Chamber, CDA executive, Secretary of State Bleker, came up with a solution from the top hat. He came up with a covenant and the bill was voted off in the First Chamber. The covenant would mean that animals may be slaughtered unsaturated, but if they were still unconscious after 40 seconds after the incision, stunning would still take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	Actually, I have a point. Not only the Christian parties, but also a number of MPs of the PvdA voted against at that time. It is also good for viewers to say that the First Chamber voted completely against. Just for posterity, for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	Well, that doesn't add up. In the First Chamber there was indeed support for the bill, but not enough. It is true that there was a roll-call vote here in the Chamber and that a number of Members of Parliament, I believe, voted against the bill one of the Freedom Party and three of the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. The escape route chosen is the route of the covenant. Again, if the animals are still conscious after 40 seconds, they are still trying to get that stunning through. Since the entry into force of the covenant, the NVWA concluded in 2015 that a ban is necessary, because the suffering of the animals is unacceptable. In the assessment of the Covenant by the Cabinet itself in 2016, no other conclusion could be drawn than that the Covenant has failed. How long will the animals have to wait for the protection they deserve? We've been convinced of that for almost 100 years. That discussion cannot be opened, because nobody is proposing to abolish stunning for all animals. That is because we are convinced that animals deserve to be unconscious before they are slaughtered. That exception for religious rites has no justification anymore. We call on the Cabinet and this Chamber to move on to what has already been decided, namely a ban on unsaturated slaughter for all animals that end up in a Dutch slaughterhouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's right. I have one question for Mrs Ouwehand. For 11 years I have been calling on the government to be irreversibly intoxicating on behalf of my party. Reversible stunning is used in ritual torture. Does Mrs Ouwehand agree with me that stunning must be irreversible, that an animal must be dead before it is cut or torn open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	We are concerned that the animal is fully unconscious before it is slaughtered and that in no way can it regain consciousness. We also have very regular discussions about the stunning techniques used in the regular slaughter. It is not, therefore, that the stunning we have now arranged for animals is above all criticism. In fact, we have a lot of criticism of that method. But that doesn't change the fact that you have to hold on to the principle that the animal must be completely unconscious before being slaughtered, so that it doesn't have to face its own conscious slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	But then the PVV wants to go a little further, because we do not think that an animal should only be unconscious, but that it should be dead before it is torn open or cut. For an animal that is unconscious may recover. You don't want to take that chance. I think that's totally disgusting, too. My question is therefore whether you agree that an animal must be irreversibly intoxicated. I'm considering motions again; yes, I've been doing it for years, they won't make it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	I think we've always supported the motions. And we agree: the animal must not recover during slaughter. So that's gotta be locked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. This is typically one of the subjects for which I wanted to go into politics, as an animal ambassador. In our decent Netherlands millions of animals are ritually tortured every year; unfortunately we are not about other countries, I would prefer to get involved in that too. Our farmers are subject to animal welfare requirements, and our livestock transporters are subject to animal welfare requirements. I'm in on it, so I'm happy about that. But these people do it and then that animal has it relatively good in comparison. Look, I haven't become a vegetarian for nothing, let that be clear, but relatively they still have a good time here in the Netherlands, although that is often not enough. And then they'll be tortured at the end. You can't do that, can you? We can't allow that, can we? No faith or ideology should lead to the abuse of humans or animals. Whether you believe in a story of creation or in evolution, the animals were there before humans. We have a respectful way of dealing with it. On 28 controlled ritual slaughterhouses, all kinds of assholes were found again, also at the 21 certified. I think it's weird that you can get a certification for that at all. We have advocated, from the Wilders Group, a ban on both unsed and anesthetized ritual torture of animals. We want an animal irreversibly intoxicated to death. I have just said this in an interrupting debate with Mrs Ouwehand. I'm glad I'm not in on that. I don't eat animals because of the suffering. I get sick when I pass the transports. That's another story. Unfortunately, I can't forbid anyone, everyone has to know that, but that's why I and many with me, a growing number of people, become vegetarians. So can the Minister ensure that animals with reversible stunning are not unconscious for us really not sufficiently cut or ripped open? 'Cause it will. After all, animals must also bleed alive. That is a very sad thing. The Chamber will get diarrhea from it by now, but I always make the same motions for that ban. We therefore wholeheartedly supported the Party for Animals' own-initiative proposal at the time. Yeah, except for one, but luckily there isn't anymore. We ourselves want the Minister to be tough on these millions of animals, because you are, albeit temporarily, the ambassador of the animals, the shepherd of our sheep. I'd like that anyway. We even want those ritual martyrs to be sentenced to prison and to be banned from keeping animals for the rest of their lives, especially now that they are still subject to the rules of ritual slaughter. Those people really need to go to jail and get a life-long ban on keeping animals. Finally, I would like to ask what progress has been made on the implementation of the Graus motion adopted for the labelling of ritually tortured products, to which millions of people contribute ignorantly. They literally get that shoved down the throat. I'd like to know what's going on with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u13	Wait, Mr Graus, there is another question for you from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u14	My colleague from Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr Graus of the PVV is against ritual slaughter, so kosher meat. On the other hand, we are here trying to hang out the long arm of Israel and the Jews in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u16	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u17	... and they try to stand up in this room for the Jewish people. I ask Mr Graus about the freedom of faith, the freedom of religion of these Jewish citizens in the Netherlands, if you slaughter the ritual, take away the high ritual from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have already said in a sentence, and I have been saying for 11 years, I have always said that no form of faith or ideology should lead to abuse of humans or animals. Again, you may not put animals above man, but to me they are no less important than humans. Because of the animals, I went into politics. Otherwise, I would never have come to the House of Representatives. Because of the animals, I've asked to be a Member of Parliament here. That's the only reason I'm standing here: I'm an animal ambassador. I'm not gonna let those animals suffer. It lies with the government and with the majority of the House, but I have told the Christian parties that because of the faith in the creation story they say to the Christians that they must have respect for all that God has created. But where is that respect for all that God has created? That Allah created the beasts before mankind. Where's the respect? Nowhere! I find that shameful. You're welcome to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u19	We must stick to the subject. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u20	The PVV says to the Jewish community, to people from Israel, that they can forget about the ritual to eat kosher meat in the Netherlands. But a quote shows that on April 1, 1933, in Germany, the ritual was banned as one of the first anti-Jewish measures. I see bandages. Despite the PVV saying that it stands up for the Jewish community, I see that it supports the same things that we experienced before World War II in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u21	This is what I find very... I've been there before for SS and that's what I've been called. I think it's really nasty what you're doing. It's a deep shame! I wasn't even born when World War II was going on here. I had nothing to do with that, nothing at all. And I stand up for animals and animal welfare. I had nothing to do with Nazis or anything that happened in Germany. I'm Dion Graus. I was born in Limburg. I stand up for animals in the Netherlands and will stand up for animals in the world if I ever leave the Chamber. You shouldn't try to push me in that corner, because I'm not gonna take that from you! I'm not gonna stand for that. I find it vile and shameful what you do, because you know I do it for the animals. I don't care who does it: if my mother slaughtered an animal, I'd take her just as hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u22	Why are you so angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u23	Because I don't accept you trying to push us into that wrong corner of Nazis every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u24	These are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u25	No, we stand up for all the values and norms, including the Jewish community. But when it comes to animal suffering or abuse of humans and animals, that is the border for us and with it. I'd take a shower if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u26	I would like to keep the Second World War out of this debate. I also ask the staff in the back of the room not to talk and laugh, because this is a serious subject. You can't interfere from the backseats. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber. Oh, I see Mr. Öztürk has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think there should also be a piece of freedom, including in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, but not to interrupt the meeting. Then they'll really be removed from the room. Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you, Mr President. The immediate reason for this debate was the shortcomings in 28 Dutch slaughterhouses. On that basis, this debate has been requested, so I would like to focus on that today. In our country, the Dutch Food and War Authority (NVWA) supervises abattoirs. In 2016, the NVWA intensified the monitoring of slaughterhouses that slaughter unsed ritually. The inspections showed that there were shortcomings in all 28 Dutch slaughterhouses that slaughtered unsedated ritual. A few months later, re-inspections were carried out. We could all read this in the annual report of the NVWA. 21 slaughterhouses were found to have solved the deficiencies and the other 7 slaughterhouses were completely stopped, stopped the unsedated ritual slaughter or were not authorised by the NVWA. One slaughterhouse went bankrupt. This is not clear from the annual report either. Can the Minister clarify that? Are they shortcomings related to the ritual slaughter, or are they of a more general nature or of a minor administrative nature? Could the shortcomings have been avoided in the case of regular slaughter? Can the Minister confirm that the shortcomings have indeed disappeared at the 21 remaining slaughterhouses which slaughter unsedated rituals? And can he confirm that there is currently a proper slaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Dutch Food and War Authority issued a press release with the headline "Nativity slaughterhouses high." This was demonstrated by the second Naleefmonitor red meat slaughter houses of the NVWA. For viewers and listeners: red meat is meat from cattle, horses, pigs, sheep and goats. Is it all a hundred percent? Not that, but it's getting close across the board. I think a compliment to the Dutch slaughter is in place, but she cannot rest on her laurels, because there is still work to be done. The NVWA inspectors observed more frequent contamination during the slaughter process in large slaughterhouses. Where abattoirs cannot rest on their laurels is in the case of unspoiled slaughter. The NVWA's annual report refers to 21 slaughterhouses which have actually been slaughtered unspoiled. These 21 slaughterhouses have been inspected in advance by the NVWA or can be slaughtered in accordance with the rules in force. Any shortcomings have been repaired by these 21 slaughterhouses. Reinspections have established that. I note from this that the animals concerned have been slaughtered in accordance with the legal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Grashoff, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the NVWA found one or more shortcomings at all 28 Dutch slaughterhouses that slaughter unsaponified ritual. So that's very serious. If there are such shortcomings, in most cases animal welfare is really at stake. My group understands from the NVWA report that then all slaughterhouses received one or more re-inspections, which ultimately resulted in four slaughterhouses being stopped and two slaughterhouses being withdrawn. Attention from the inspection was therefore, in any case, needed both bread and bread. In the meantime, the covenant has long been under discussion. New adjustments have been proposed. It now seems that everything is pretty much worked out, but my question to the Minister is why it took so long. If, for example, in February 2016, the former Secretary of State intended to limit the slaughter to domestic demand and if we are just going to take stock now, there will be a great deal of time in between. Mr. Chairman. Enforcement and control will greatly improve due to the obligation to always have an inspector of the NVWA present at unlimited slaughter. That is a good thing. For GroenLinks, there is also a principle that the 40 seconds rule is strictly adhered to. The Secretary of State states that there is now agreement on this, in the sense that if the animal is still conscious after 40 seconds, stunning must be carried out immediately. We have already expressed our concern about this, because this method with the eye reflex may be a good one but perhaps not an undisputed indicator, but also because we are hesitant about the working method as a whole. Is it really feasible and enforceable in practice? Or should we, over time, find that, for example, a much higher percentage of cattle than is currently estimated, 15% to 20%, still have to be intoxicated? If so, the bottom actually falls out of the whole set of appointments. Is the Minister prepared to closely monitor and inform us of this agreed method, including the figures on, for example, the percentage that still needs to be drugged? And does he want to evaluate that method in up to a year? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u34	I have known Mr Grashoff for a long time, also as an animal friend. I have a question for him. Has he ever attended how an animal is killed? I'm afraid I do. Has he ever seen it? And has he ever seen what happens to an animal after an intoxication?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u35	I haven't been to a slaughterhouse to look at it with my own eyes. That is not because I do not want to do so, but because it has simply not yet come of it. But I fully agree with Mr Graus that that is not a party to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u36	I grew up with a slaughterhouse around the corner. I've seen it since I was a kid. I will tell you this: if an animal is intoxicated and that does not happen properly, those 40 seconds become very sad and long minutes. Because after that, an animal is untouchable and totally panicked. They're gonna kick and they're gonna do everything God gave them to defend themselves. It is impossible to approach an animal that is not well sedated. How does Mr Grashoff see it? If an animal is not well intoxicated and it is still there after 40 seconds, which is gruesomely long, then what should happen? How are they supposed to drug that animal properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u37	I think that's a good question, but I'd be happy to pass it on to the Minister. I have to assume, and I also assume, that that is indeed possible in a good way at that time. But I am happy to take over Mr Graus' question. I am critical of that; you have heard me say that. But the 40 seconds limit as such is a kind of lower limit for us, which results from a social compromise. In the end, we need to compare animal welfare, on a wondrous scale of apples and pears, with the preservation of freedom of religion. That is so fundamental that you are indeed looking for creative possibilities to connect one with the other, however difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u38	I remember GroenLinks in the Chamber supporting our bill and voting against the CDA amendment. That amendment proposed what is now being worked out in the covenant, namely that you cut an animal unintoxicated and that after 45 seconds it is still intoxicating for 40 seconds. There are a lot of questions about its feasibility. The cabinet points to the Scientific Advisory Committee, which also has serious doubts about this. Does GroenLinks agree with the Animal Party that it is very unwise to lay down the covenant in legal rules if we do not have a clear picture of how it works in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u39	There are a lot of different elements in what Mrs Ouwehand says here. First of all, there is the political fact that there has been a legislative proposal that has ended. That means that within that context you are having a discussion about what is the best way of working. There's a complicated compromise in that. On the one hand, I see an administrative creativity of the former Secretary of State to try to connect it with one another. I have critical questions about this, which I have just asked the Minister. I would like to have the Minister's answer to that before I conclude in the end that this is perhaps the best way forward for the moment and under the present circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u40	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u41	You may interrupt, but I do appeal to all of you not to repeat the debate on the covenant that we have already had a few times, because that is not what this is all about. Isn't that right, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u42	Uh, yes and no. I get that you're saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yeah, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u44	... but I have all sorts of questions about that. That is why I will finish this interruption on that point, if you will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u45	Well, with a little wink. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u46	With a little wink. I wonder if it is also an appropriate weighing point for GroenLinks to have a clear picture of how many animals we are talking about. Because as we now read the letters, it seems that if we agree to that 40-second rule in the covenant and we lay it down in legal rules, there will be more animals slaughtered undead than before. Religious communities will then have room to reject the meat from a failed unsedated slaughter, and then try it with a new animal. Does GroenLinks agree with the Party for Animals that this is totally undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u47	If I have read the Secretary of State's letter correctly, then part of the agreement is that even in the event that it is eventually intoxicated, that meat is actually all brought back into the halal meat circuit and thus remains accepted by the vast majority of the community. I think that is an important point. So that is also a good question to the Minister. You can also put him directly to the minister, you can put him to me, but I'll just put him back to the minister. As far as I am concerned, the answer to that is also important. I have just tried to stress that if you now estimate that 15% to 20% of animals still have to be drugged, that is an estimate. If that were to rise to 30% or 40%, the whole soil would disappear under the agreement set and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u49	I think that's a very important point to ask further on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr President, I cannot help it if there is an interruption on an extremely important and fundamental point, and I have no choice but to go into it seriously and comprehensively. This is only possible for me on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u52	That is possible and that is why I have allowed the interruption, but I insist that we do not do everything again, because that is also a sin. Good. I think you were already done, but Mr Öztürk has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u53	GroenLinks is in favour of abolishing ritual slaughter and that Muslims and Jews in the Netherlands should not eat halal meat and kosher meat. What do you say to your voters who are Muslims, voted on GroenLinks and read the opinion of the Council of State that this is a restriction on their freedom of religion? Let me briefly quote what the Council of State has said: 'The Council therefore considers that a ban on undisturbed ritual slaughter constitutes a restriction on the freedom of religion. In the Council's view, the proposal thus runs into the limits of Article 6, paragraph 1 of the Constitution." The Council of State recommends further consideration of the proposal. Hearing this, does GroenLinks still think they should abolish ritual slaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u54	This is exactly what I meant, Mr Grashoff, so if you would like to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u55	This goes even further, because this is not about a discussion about the covenant, but even further back to the start of the discussion on a total ban on ritual slaughter. That has had its history and I am not going to repeat that part of the debate. Perhaps Mr Öztürk has just heard that, in all the nuances on this point, I am looking for a balanced response to this point of the Secretary of State and now of the Minister to what I call apples and pears, animal welfare and religious freedom, now is the right course of action or not. I would also ask Mr Öztürk to keep that nuance in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Grashoff is not actually replying. He leaves it in the middle and transfers it to the minister. The Green Left Chooser wants to know now that we have an initiative proposal from the Party for Animals: are you for halal meat and kosher meat, are you for ritual slaughter or not? Just tell me the truth about what you're doing. Then I guess it's clear to the voter, too. He will know what you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u57	That is a very well-known trick, to ask at an inconvenient moment when something is not on the agenda, a what-if question. If we have a new initiative proposal from the Party for Animals, then we will weigh it up at that time. We'll do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u59	Finally, Mr President. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance agrees that it is consistent to maintain the principle that meat from unspoiled slaughter is not mixed with regular meat. GroenLinks believes that under conditions as much as possible the right to eat meat from ritual slaughter should be respected, but also the right to eat only meat from intoxicated slaughter. So it must always be clear where the meat comes from. Then why is there resistance to VSV at this point? Is it enforceable? What about residual products such as bones and gelatine production? Are they sufficiently ruled out? So, has the preparation of the legal anchor already begun? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u61	Thank you, Mr President. The NVWA should monitor our food safety and animal welfare. If the NVWA finds shortcomings or abuses, it must act. This applies to all slaughterhouses, including slaughterhouses where slaughter is carried out unspoiled or ritually. In 2016, the NVWA intensified the monitoring of the unspoiled slaughter. The annual report of the NVWA shows that deficiencies were detected in all 28 visited slaughterhouses prior to the feast of sacrifice. As a result, measures have been taken and slaughterhouses have had to make adjustments in order to obtain authorisation. The VVD agrees that the NVWA actively controls and maintains. That's her job. We are holding the debate on the shortcomings identified in 2016. My question to the Minister, who has also been asked by a number of previous speakers, is whether he can indicate whether checks have been carried out this year, during this period, and whether he can comment on the findings. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Then I look at Mr Futselaar. Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u63	I have a brief question for the VVD Group. The cabinet has said years ago that the number of animals that are slaughtered unsaturated should actually be recorded. Now we see that the NVWA said in 2015 that there should actually be a total ban, for which the VVD was first in favour, and in 2016 for all slaughterhouses where slaughter is unsexed, deficiencies have been detected. And still the cabinet cannot answer the question of exactly how many animals are involved. How does the VVD Group judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u64	I do not care if there is a deficiency in one animal or in 100,000 animals. The case has to be in order. For that, we have a enforcer in this country. That's the NVWA. It must monitor and act where necessary. That's what happened in this case. I would also like to leave this at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u65	Then I will go to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. For clarity, if it had been up to the SP fraction, there would have already been a nationwide ban on unsedated ritual slaughter. The fact that the First Chamber rejected an earlier proposal to that effect is tragic in our view. Instead of that ban, there was a covenant. This covenant does not work well in practice. It has been said before that all 28 slaughterhouses which in 2016 wanted to slaughter unsedated ritually were found to be defective. The 40 seconds rule, which is already ridicul in itself, often turns out not to be met in practice, especially when it comes to cattle. And if there were to be unsaturated slaughter with all the violence, then the stunning would have to happen immediately after cutting and not after 40 seconds. I give it to you to do, after 40 seconds of being slaughtered! Many animals suffer unnecessarily long and alternatives such as electronic stunning should be much more a serious option. Is the Minister prepared to admit that the covenant as it is now drafted is actually not workable? Then there's a specific question about exports. There are still some questions about that. Is it now the case that only the Dutch question requires the slaughter of unsedated rituals? Is there, as is said in some quarters, an export ban in practice, or is it going to be? Or is it a little vaguer, as sometimes seems? However, the SP would like to insist on the implementation of the Van Gerven motion for a ban on the tilting box. The Minister states that there is no clear conclusion to be drawn from the investigation whether or not this contributes to animal welfare, but given the amount of stress involved and the fact that, for example, animal protection states that it wants to get rid of that tilting box, we would like to reiterate that the Chamber has spoken in favour of this and we urge it to carry out that motion. Mr. Chairman. In Flanders, unsedated slaughter is prohibited from 2019. Almost all Flemish politics agreed to this. Are we really going to allow our southern neighbours to catch up on animal welfare after all the misery with Belgian slaughterhouses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. DENK is for the freedom of every Dutch citizen, the freedom as enshrined in our Constitution, and is therefore also for the freedom of religion as described in Article 6 of our Constitution. DENK thus guarantees the freedoms of Muslims, Jews, Christians and all other believers. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that it is becoming increasingly difficult to profess a religion. Several parties here in this Chamber are trying to restrict constitutional freedoms for believers and in some cases they even want to abolish them. Let's take an average hardworking Dutch Muslim as an example, a hardworking Dutch Muslim who contributes to our society day in, day out, by following an education, by working hard, by paying taxes, by volunteering and much more. I would almost advise that hard-working Muslim not to look at these kinds of debates. But if that hardworking Muslim does look at these kinds of debates, what does he hear? Islamic schools must be closed. We're not gonna secure mosques. The Qur'an must be forbidden. You need to distance yourself from terrorists you have nothing to do with. No headscarf or burqa in our country. If it were up to most parties, the ritual slaughter would still be banned today, even as far as GroenLinks is concerned, while she writes it out. It is still fresh in our memory that the majority of MPs of the VVD, the PvdA, GroenLinks, D66, the SP and the PVV for Mrs Thieme's bill was to stop ritual slaughter. Too bad and sad. I sometimes wonder: where is this going, what are you doing? Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating an article in the NRC entitled: Many shortcomings in unsedated ritual slaughter for Islamic sacrificial feasts. Cow letters in the NRC. And then we have to debate, because it's about Muslims. Then there is a request for a debate. If you actually look at what happened, you can see that out of the 28 abattoirs there are 21 who have improved their shortcomings and which now meet the requirements. Four of them either went bankrupt or something else happened. In principle, it is in line with the question we have put to the slaughterhouses. My question to this Minister is: what are you going to do to support these slaughterhouses, to help them work towards that covenant and to help them that we hurt the animals as little as possible? Yes, Mr Graus, yes, Mrs Ouwehand, we too want the animals to suffer as little as possible, but you must help them and not put them in the corner every time from faith. Finally. We are all in favour of Article 6 of the Constitution, freedom of religion. Let's all keep that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u68	If this contribution by the group of DENK is meant to connect, then it is unfortunately failed. Let me say to my colleagues that this is not a group of faiths. It is about animal welfare that colleagues from other parties bring up here. I hope that you will respect that, just as the CDA Group does, although my group takes a different view than many other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u69	I heard Mr Buma in a lecture. That wasn't really binding. What he advocated in that was putting Muslims in a certain corner in two parts of society. I think that with this story you're trying to keep to me, you should talk to your own rightful leader. He doesn't say anything more than Wilders says. Is that connection for the CDA? Is that charity? Is that brotherhood? Is that dealing with people in the area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u70	Well, I would just like to comment on that: I think it is good that the DENK Group is reading that reading very well again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u71	It wasn't just DENK, but there was total indignation. I'm from Roermond, where a lot of CDAs live. Those too say to me: where is the national CDA going, why are they righting? I say they're following Geert Wilders, because that's how they think they're getting more votes. That's the problem. Why don't you go work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u72	I have nothing against Muslims or against Jews either. In fact, we've taken it up a lot for the Jewish people, too. This is about animal suffering. That's why I brought my mom in. If my mother was abusing animals, I wouldn't want anything to do with her anymore. I'd turn her in, and preferably put her in jail, even my own mother. It's the animal suffering that matters to me. I don't think it's a good idea for Mr Öztürk to try to push me into a certain angle, even though he needs to know that I've recorded it for him. He also knows that when I got married, a Muslim was my best man. A Muslim! I don't have anything against Muslims. I may have more Muslim friends than you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u73	Hahaha.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u74	You can laugh about that, but maybe it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u75	Let's count.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's not what this is about, is it? I've spoken to Jews and Muslims. They say that if a dick is circumcised, it also happens with anesthesia. The dentist's gonna give you an anesthetic, too. Why not animals? Why does animals have to do everything like in the Middle Ages and people do go with time? That's all wrong, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u78	Finally, Madam President. I'm almost done. The experts. We have a Royal Dutch Society for Veterinary Medicine, to which more than a thousand veterinarians are attached. They all say it's an improper animal suffering. Those are people who studied for eight years. They know what's going on in an animal. You're not a vet, you're not a biologist, you're not an ecologist, you're not a killer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u79	I have read the opinion of the Council of State and he has studied a lot. They say freedom of religion is at stake. What I see is what happened in the past. You may be an animal lover and Mr Wilders tolerates you in the group, like: let's also have a social face at the PVV, a bit of a hug-kamer member, so that we can show that we are also social.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u81	You get that space from Geert, but the fact remains that history is repeating itself here. That's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u82	I'm sorry, Mr. Graus, but I'm going to intervene anyway. The debate is totally off-tracking. I would really like to call on you to hold the debate on the subject that is on the agenda today and, above all, not to overdo it. I'm very uncomfortable with that. I do not know what Mr Graus is going to say, but otherwise it will only get worse. Mr Graus, you have made your point. Mr Öztürk replied. I think it's okay, if we just... It's not funny at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman. I'm in two debates. I'm going to the AO Aviation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u84	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm being observed now, and then I'll come back and retable my motions. I just wanted to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u86	Well, I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u87	It is now being put down as if Geert Wilders did this out of electoral gain, while as a young boy in Venlo took the deux-chevaux from his mother to drive with a kitten that had been given up by the local veterinarian to Utrecht, out of his own savings jar. Oh, come on. That man has been to an animal friend since he was a kid, just like me. That's why he brought me into the party because of the common animal love. Why don't you stop talking about whether that's electoral gain? We've been like this since we were kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u88	There. Mr Öztürk, I think you kept your story. Mr Graus wanted to make this point. I would like to leave it at that. Mr Graus did not ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u89	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u90	You may react briefly if it does not lead to a new discussion again, because I think everything has already been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. I also notice with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u92	Oh, now it's my turn. Thank you. Have a nice day, Mr Öztürk. I'm not going to argue with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u93	Can I say something about this? Mr Graus has used the word scumbag, and you have not dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yeah, it's okay. Thank you. Finally, I am going to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank you to the Minister and, of course, to his predecessor, Secretary of State Van Dam, for sending the letter on the state of play in the covenant. D66 welcomes the continuation of this covenant. It is certain that a number of things can be improved, as the WAC has also noted, but I am satisfied with the line and measures outlined in the letter. There are two things I would like to highlight explicitly. D66 is in favour of permanent supervision of the NVWA in the case of slaughter. And we don't want any exceptions to that. This minimises the risk of abuses in the sector. D66 also wants no exception to separate currents in the food chain. Regular slaughtered meat must not be mixed with meat from unspoiled slaughter. It is also important for D66 that the General Measure of Governance should enter into force as soon as possible. Therefore, the agreements set out in the covenant must be complied with. I am referring in particular to the calculation of the need for meat from unspoiled slaughter. The estimates of this by the Dutch Israeli Church Society and the Contact Body Muslims and Government are known. The data must be added to the sales figures and the figures for the number of slaughtered animals actually exported. Unfortunately, these data are not yet available. In order to limit the number of animals slaughtered without being slaughtered to the minimum, I would like to call on the slaughterhouses and the meat processing sector to share this data quickly. That is in the interests of all covenant partners, and of animals, of course. Rounding up. D66 welcomes the continuation of the covenant and hopes that the General Measure of Governance will be implemented quickly and correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mrs. Ouwehand, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u97	Also a question to D66. Earlier, they didn't see anything in the 40 or 45 seconds rule. I hear D66 now saying that they want the covenant to be continued and enshrined in legal rules. At that time it was promised to register the number of unsedated slaughtered animals. That didn't happen. When we read the cabinet's letters on the covenant, it seems that by legally establishing these agreements we run the risk of more animals being slaughtered unsedated than that need, by giving religious communities the freedom to reject animals. How does D66 weigh those risks and the fact that registration, despite being promised in 2012, is still not regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u98	You have heard that D66 has called on the Minister, the abattoirs and the organizations concerned to share the figures on the number of slaughters. The aim is to minimise the number of slaughters in this way. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u99	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u100	Still the point that the Jewish-religious community with the covenant gets the freedom to say: okay, this is an unwelcome slaughtered animal, but we don't judge it as a kosher; we're going to try it with a new animal. This is evident from the letter from the cabinet. This leads to more animals being slaughtered unsedated, while I hear D66 saying that they believe that the number of animals slaughtered unsed should be kept to the minimum. How does the D66 group weigh that possibility that it is still more animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u101	I think this is a repeat. It is the question that was also asked to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Minister. We also have this question, of course. The purpose of the covenant is to bring together the various interests involved and to establish an implementation practice which is feasible, which is controlled and which results in a minimum number of animals being slaughtered in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u102	It's a bit of a blur at D66, isn't it? They agreed to stop ritual slaughter a few years ago, so that people couldn't eat halal meat and kosher meat anymore. Now I see a movement towards finding a way in between. What's that all about? What has made the D66 Group decide to go down that road? Does it have anything to do with elections, with signals from the grassroots? What's it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr Öztürk sees a movement that I do not share with him. It is precisely D66 that has kept the nuance in this file from the very beginning. That is why an amendment by Mr Van Veldhoven was adopted to the effect that animal welfare should be safeguarded in the ordinary slaughter and in this form of ritual slaughter and that there should be no additional suffering. That is still the line from which D66 looks at this covenant and the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u104	But there was a proposal from the Party for Animals. You voted for it. That proposal was to abolish the ritual slaughter, so that Muslims could not eat halal meat and Jews could not eat kosher meat. There's gonna be another proposal soon. May I hear what you're going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u105	I hear what's being said. Once again, however, an amendment by Mr Van Veldhoven was adopted which is exactly the middle line. So it's not one thing or the other. It is indeed very nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister, because he can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Grashoff said that what has been arranged with regard to the unspoiled ritual slaughter is a social compromise. I fully agree with that, because that is exactly how it is: it is a social compromise. That social compromise was concluded in 2012. Then a covenant was signed by the relevant parties: the Dutch-Israeli Church Society, the Contact Body Muslims and Government, the Association of Slaughtereries and Meat Processing Companies and Economic Affairs. They have agreed with each other how that undisturbed ritual should go on. That covenant wasn't applied directly. There are a number of explanations for that. The covenant was not legally binding and could not be enforced by the government. That can only be done if you have a legal rule for that, a law or a General Measure of Governance. There were a number of uncertainties in the explanation of the covenant and there were other practical reasons, but it did not come to fruition. Because it was such an important social compromise, it was not wise to let that go and say: it failed, so let's leave it at that. It was much better to try to get that covenant executed. This has been worked very consistently and has been well thought into by all parties. In the end, an addendum was added to the covenant to resolve the uncertainties, with a passable path being chosen for all parties that were also verifiable. We then converted the main issues of that covenant with that addendum into a General Measure of Management. This General Measure of Management will take effect on 1 January of this year. As spokesmen ask whether I can guarantee that work is already being done according to that covenant, my answer is no. But that will be the case from 1 January. That doesn't mean nothing happened in the meantime. What happened? Some of you have already referred to the round of inspections. There have been investigations at all 28 abattoirs and conclusions have been drawn. Last year it was said that if an animal is slaughtered unintoxicated and after three minutes it is not for good unconscious, then there must be an intoxication. As I have just said, an attempt has been made to implement the covenant with the addendum and later with the General Measure of Management. In this way the necessary has happened, not enough, but from 1 January next it will be enough. At the moments when most animals are slaughtered unintoxicated, that is at the Sacrifice Festival, people of the NVWA were present at all slaughterhouses to see what was happening there and to monitor it. We also know exactly how many animals were slaughtered at that time. If you compare the numbers of the Sacrifice in 2017 with those of the Sacrifice in 2016, you can see that it is also about fewer animals. The number of animals slaughtered is therefore decreasing. It has also helped that in 2016 and 2017 people started talking to the abattoirs and went over all the practical issues. As a result, the problems have been dealt with together and solutions have been found for them, and it has also been made clear what should and should not be done. Mr Öztürk said: you should actually help those slaughterhouses. I agree. If there is a covenant and a joint approach, and if you are about to introduce a General Measure of Governance, then all of them must also be respected. You can do that by consulting with those involved and ensuring that what you want as a legislator is also the practice. In this way, I would like to respond to what Mr Öztürk said. The problems encountered with the covenant, which prevented it from being implemented, were in particular the 40 seconds regime. It was about determining whether or not an animal should be intoxicated. The question is: is the animal unconscious for good now, or isn't it? There were considerable differences in the interpretation and application of the criteria. In the meantime, the NVWA has found two criteria. She has also been able to determine from scientific research and from practice that they work. These two criteria, the so-called induced eyelid reflex and the corneal reflex, which exert pressure on the cornea, are now applied by the NVWA. If the covenant is to be applied from January 1st, supported by the AMvB, then each time someone from the NVWA supervises if there is a ritual or unwelcome gender. Then we can also determine whether it is being done by the rules. That rule therefore means that an animal is still intoxicated if one of these two criteria requires it to be determined after 40 seconds that it is not unconscious for good. That was particularly unclear because the representatives of the religions, who know how the slaughter should take place according to their religion, had their own views on the criteria to be applied. They now intend to continue to apply their own criteria. In practice, it only appears that the criteria they apply are more likely to establish unconsciousness. Relevant to the whole process is therefore what is last established on behalf of the NVWA, namely whether or not the animal is unconscious forever after 40 seconds. If that is the case, then there is no need for stunning. If that is not the case, then immediate stunning will take place. In practice, it is often not that 40 seconds is waited, but that this stunning takes place earlier, i.e. between 0 and 40 seconds. When that happens and or can be done, it is up to those who represent religion at the ritual slaughter. The government, the NVWA, states that the period in which the animal is not yet unconscious does not exceed 40 seconds. In that each has its own responsibility. Mr. Chairman. From 1 January there will be permanent supervision and the 40 seconds regime will be applied. I already told you. The appropriate instruments and materials must then also be used and it must be assessed whether an animal is suitable for ritual slaughter. Those who slaughter must also meet the training requirements, and the Scientific Advisory Committee must function. Moreover, not only this AMvB applies, but also the European regulation. According to that European regulation, the starting point for slaughter is that a stunning takes place prior to the neckline. It's a good thing we're facing that. Prior to the neckline there is therefore an intoxication. One exception has been made in that European regulation, and that is in the case of religious rites. So that's what we're talking about. Mr Grashoff said that he felt it important that a social compromise had also been reached. To fill that exception in more detail, we in the Netherlands have the covenant and the AMvB. So we can do it responsibly now. I look at all the points raised by the spokesmen, and I shall deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u108	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mrs Ouwehand says there is no such thing as animal-friendly slaughter. I can imagine a great deal of that. Animal-friendly is something other than the slaughter of an animal, but the slaughter of animals is part of the human consumption pattern. It is the responsibility of man to do so responsibly. We have our own rules for that, we have European rules for that, and we have to apply them to the letter and the spirit. Mrs. Ouwehand wants a total ban on the ritual slaughter. The cabinet doesn't want that. She asks how long the animals have to wait. I have already indicated that what I have just described happened at the last Offer Festival, and that from 1 January onwards what is in the covenant and in the General Measure of Management will happen. Mr Graus spoke of ritual torture of animals. If he puts it that way, it is difficult for me to respond to comments and questions from him, because of course that is not the case. It is about unspoiled slaughter according to a religious rite, where you, as legislator, after extensive consultation with all the social parties involved, try to give a responsible interpretation. He's asking what's going on with his motion on labelling. There are two things I have to say about this, both about labelling and about exports. First of all, labels on it. You can say "halal" or "koosher" and you can put that on your products as a shop, but that's not something the government does. We didn't say anything in a rule "halal is this" and "you have to do that and that before it's halal." We also have nowhere what kosher is and what you have to meet if you consider something kosher. That's not up to us. What is possible is that we should set up a system which separates exactly which animals have been slaughtered undisturbed and which meat has come from them and the same with regard to the regular slaughter of animals. That is not happening at the moment. There are also many aspects to it. I will not give any further details in this remaining cabinet period. It is up to my successor to look at all these aspects and then decide how they will or will not be implemented. The same applies to exports. You can't just let exports go and then let imports go. If you do not export, you can also try not to import, but you cannot just stop imports from the EU. Moreover, the question is also: if you slaughter ritually unintoxicated in a very responsible manner in the Netherlands, is it wrong that it goes to other countries where this may be less so at the moment? I don't know that in advance. I think that should also be investigated. What about the rules? What is the legal space we have? How do we intend to implement this, especially in the interests of the animal? We need to find out more. That is also the second point that I am not going to pick up in this cabinet period. Analyses, choices and political decisions must be made. That must also be justified here in the Chamber. I'll leave that to my successor. So the questions that have been asked on these two points will not entirely lead to a result. Mrs Dik-Faber asked what those shortcomings were in 2016, when we said 28 abattoirs "slaughterhouses" were checked by some of you. We have found that none of these slaughterhouses met all the requirements. After that, they performed. Then, the year after, 21 remained that did meet the requirements. Those demands are very broad. These are demands for the administrative process, which is important. These are requirements for the material you use, the training of those who slaughter, the conditions under which that takes place and the manner in which the animal is assessed. All those matters which are relevant shall be checked and determined on the basis of them whether or not they meet the requirements. If that is not the case, there are two possibilities: either next time it will be okay or the slaughterhouse will close. Mrs Dik-Faber was also one of those who asked whether the covenant was currently working. I have already indicated that this will be the case from 1 January next. Mr Geurts complimented the slaughterhouses and concluded that slaughter was now carried out in accordance with the rules in force. That is to a large extent the case when you talk about slaughter in general. As from 1 January, the chain will be closed, as the AMvB will apply and the covenant will be fully applied. Mr Grashoff asked why it took so long for the covenant to be respected. I've already gone into that. I think that Mr Grashoff, in view of his remark that it is a social compromise, can imagine how that was approached administratively. I also think that my predecessors have done well, because the result now is that the covenant we consider so important will be implemented from 1 January. I think they did a good job. I understand that Mr Grashoff thinks that when it comes to cattle, 15% to 20% of the animals are still intoxicated. There is a ritual slaughter going on and after 40 seconds there is or is not still intoxicated. Mr Grashoff understands that 15% to 20% of the slaughter of cattle is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u110	That's how I read the Secretary of State's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u111	That's not right. In 85% of cases it is necessary to intoxicate. This is to be made clear to Mr Grashoff. Mr Grashoff also asked for clarity as to the origin of meat. I have just gone into this when I said that my successor must take a decision on it. Several decisions may need to be taken on this. I went into that when I was talking about halal and kosher. Mrs Lodder asked whether checks were also carried out this year and what the findings were. We did the same thing last year. That means we went before the Sacrifice to all those slaughterhouses, slaughterhouses. We talked to all the people involved and looked into it. We've exchanged information and monitored it on a permanent basis. So that happened again this year. We've focused on the Sacrifice Festival in particular. From January 1st, every ritual slaughter, throughout the year, will have permanent supervision. Mr Futselaar asked whether the covenant was not practicable in practice. I've already gone into that. He made a comment about exports. That's what I've been working on. He also talked about the tilting box which, according to a motion, should be banned. The problem arises with that ritual slaughter in cattle. If you slaughter goats and sheep, then it's bigger numbers of goats and sheep, then it's done within 40 seconds. That means there doesn't have to be an intoxication. In cattle, this is different, because cattle also have an artery running through the vertebral canal to the head. This means that it often happens that after 40 seconds the animal is not unconscious forever. Well, I guess it's gonna take something. That's the difference between both groups of animals. So when it comes to the tilt box, we're talking about the cattle. Both research and practice have shown that it is necessary to fix the cow anyway. If you've fixed her and tilted her, the burden of the animal during the slaughter process is less than if you don't tilt. That is why I believe that tilting should continue and that I do not think it is in the interests of the animals to carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u112	I would like to come back to exports. It is therefore not the case that unsedated ritual slaughter should in principle focus on the Dutch market. We can do the same for exports. If a hypothetical neighbour forbids it, it can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u113	I do not have the impression that this is the case to a significant extent at the moment. I do think that is something that needs to be made clear: can we, can we not? If you can't, you can fight it. Then you've got good reasons to fight it. There's more to it. It is not a major problem at the moment, but clarity is desirable. That is why I believe that my successor should also have a view on this, that he should share it with the Chamber and that he should then carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u114	I can live with that in itself, but in general I like it if I can just get that clarity from a cabinet that has been working on the problem for years and that it is not found, reasonably at the end of the process, that we should actually find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u115	I am absolutely not afraid to come up with positions and make decisions, but I have to deal with the next cabinet with respect. We have a missionary status, the Chamber has declared almost everything controversial. That means I need to know my place with my missionary status. If I think anything can be done responsibly by me, I'll do it. If I think that several things still need to be figured out, which I obviously cannot manage in my period, then I think it is wise for my successor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u116	I understand there's new knowledge about the tilt box. In one sentence, the Minister says: the tilting box increases the welfare of the slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u119	I myself would talk about: to a lesser extent burdening welfare. However, that is a game of words, which Mr De Groot will also be proficient in, but that we both do not let go on this subject. Mr Öztürk spoke about freedom of religion. He asked me what I was going to do to support the slaughterhouses. I've gone into that. Mr De Groot asked for permanent supervision. That's what he gets. He believes that there should be no exception to the separate meat flows. He also felt that there should be checks on the numbers of animals and on the kilograms sold, and that this should be consistent. That is one of the two things that I think should be looked into. So I'm not going to go into that now. I am not going to contradict him; it is his view that has been taken into account, and that will soon have to lead to a conclusion, partly on the basis of his opinion and of what further work is being done by my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u120	I asked to support the slaughterhouses. The Minister sees that as positive. Only, how is that going to happen in practice? We see a number of slaughterhouses going bankrupt, no more ritual slaughter or the choice not to do it anymore. But a number of slaughterhouses need support. People need to be trained, people need to be trained. There is a lot of control, a lot of costs are being incurred to maintain Article 6, freedom of religion, in the Netherlands. Are you prepared to look at the slaughterhouses with which we can compensate them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u121	No, I'm not prepared to. I believe that the costs that must be incurred within the laws and rules for the exercise of a religious desire, that is, the ritual intoxicating slaughter, must be for those who wish to do so. In fact, I also believe that the supervision of NVWA should be charged to slaughterhouses. So they have to bear those costs, too. I have no intention of meeting them there. It's up to them to stay within the rules, make sure they have well-educated people, and make sure the materials are for each other. That's all their own responsibility. I am going to do so in the form of rules and supervision, but I am not going to meet them in those costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u122	The minister is also from the VVD, an entrepreneurial party. We in this Chamber are inventing something and imposing it on entrepreneurs. And then we say, "Yeah, you're gonna have to put it up, and if you go bankrupt, you're gonna go bankrupt." I don't think that's common for the real liberal VVD. If we are to come up with and impose something here, then one way or another, we have to deal with these entrepreneurs so that they can do their job. It is also about employment, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u123	What is and is not des VVD's, I know much and much better than Mr Öztürk. Then there's the suggestion that slaughterhouses are going bankrupt. 28 slaughterhouses were examined in 2016. Four of these slaughterhouses have ceased their ritual slaughter because they have not been able to meet the reasonable requirements. One moment, Mr. Chairman. I'll check my notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u124	You can come back to it if you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u125	No, I don't like coming back to it, and I don't like saying anything wrong. 28 companies have been checked. Four of these companies have withdrawn, which is always allowed. One company has gone bankrupt and two companies have not been allowed by us to continue with the practice they were working on. Of those 28 companies, one company went bankrupt, which can happen. I note that 21 companies have continued and that they have been able to comply with the rules. I therefore do not believe that there is a major problem of bankruptcy in this area. As far as costs are concerned, I have just responded to what Mr Öztürk has said. I believe that I have responded to what the spokesmen have brought in. I don't think anything stayed down. If that is the case, I am happy to deal with it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u126	Has there been a question left, Mr. Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u127	Yes. As a result of the Minister's reaction to my speech, my question, which is all the more pressing, is whether he can guarantee that all the meat, including that of the large cattle, which comes from the ritual slaughter in this way, is actually used in that circuit, so that it does not disappear, is thrown away or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u128	I know exactly how many animals have been ritually slaughtered around the Sacrifice in 2016 and 2017. It is therefore possible to release control of the follow-up process. As from 1 January, the NVWA will be present at all ritual slaughter. This means that we can have all the figures on the slaughtered animals for the whole year ready. It is therefore possible to establish links with kilos sold. Whether that should be done and whether it is possible to then establish links, I do not know, also because of what I have said about kosher and halal and the responsibility of the government. There are several aspects to this which do not make it possible for me to make a responsible decision in the short term. So I'll leave that to my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u130	Does the Minister agree with me that a highly undesirable result can be that animals are slaughtered unintoxicated, that they are intoxicated after 40 seconds and that they do not end up in the meat chain at all, so that they are not accepted in one chain or in the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u131	If animals are killed, it happens because they are going to be consumed. If animals are killed without being consumed and therefore there is a senseless death, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u132	Here too, it is important to clarify what the consequences will be. When I read the letters from the cabinet, I wonder if more animals are being slaughtered because the Jewish community.... we read that the Jewish community in particular is being given the freedom to use a new animal for the 15% to 20% of the animals rejected by this community for that kosher slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u133	I do not expect a situation as Mrs Ouwehand describes. I Consider that the agreements made will in practice show that the combination of the application of the important criteria by the representatives of religions and the application of the relevant criteria of the NVWA, the still stunning of animals, if necessary, will not lead to the exclusion of numbers of animals in the order of magnitude referred to by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u134	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u135	"Outside the picture"? That's not the question, is it? If we have found here that the suffering of the animals in the case of unsedated slaughter is very dramatic, and if everyone speaks fine words that the number of animals that are slaughtered unsed must be reduced at least until a total ban is introduced, do you have to know whether you are going to take measures to increase the number of animals to be slaughtered? These animals are therefore not subject to the legal protection applicable to other animals, i.e. to unconsciousness. Then you can't just say: I don't expect the animals to get out of the picture? Is it going to be an increase or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u136	I'm not just saying the animals don't get out of the picture. I would like to come up with more figures if Mrs Ouwehand needs them. In 2016 3,264 cattle were ritually slaughtered at the Sacrifice Festival. In the year 2017, there were 2,926. So that's considerably less. The number of sheep and goats slaughtered at the Sacrifice Festival in 2016 was 65,918. In the year 2017, that was 62,231. The second thing I say to Mrs Ouwehand is that the practice as from 1 January can take place on the basis of and supported by the covenant, the agreements made on this matter with all parties, the desire of all parties to put this together and the General Measure of Management which will be in force, will result in the animals being slaughtered ritually undisturbed, if they are not unconscious for good after 40 seconds, being intoxicated and that the process will be completed. Our estimate is that this will not lead to animal meat being rejected because they would not have been slaughtered according to the religious rites. That's the assessment I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you. No, Mrs. Ouwehand. I'm sorry, but we have a second term. An interruption is in two, and that's what you've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u138	So there's only one interruption in the Minister's term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u139	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u140	The Minister's only talking about the Sacrifice. The question was very clear about the Jewish religious slaughter. So that's not the Sacrifice. I ask what the Minister and the Secretary of State themselves wrote in the letter: 15% to 20% of animals will be rejected as kosher. How's that? The suggestion raised in the letter is that these animals are being passed on to the Islamic community, which they do accept as halal. So does the Islamic community solve that problem of the Jewish community? Or is it an increase in the number of animals, because the animals can be rejected as non-kosher, after which another attempt is made with a new animal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u141	As we have informed the Chamber, we do not have any figures on what is being slaughtered outside of the Sacrifice in our country. There are no figures available. That's because not every massacre is attended by a member of the NVWA. That is why, from 1 January onwards, a different situation has arisen. Then there's the covenant, then there's the General Measure of Governance and then there's permanent supervision. This means that everything that happens during the course of a year in the area of ritual slaughter is monitored and that you will have access to that information. As regards the description of what happens at slaughter, the application of the 40-second rule, the explanation given by the parties and my assessment of the results, I said what I could say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I see Mr Graus has already stood up. What timing. Where's Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u143	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u144	I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr. Chairman. If it wasn't so poignant, I could say a little laughy here, it's a weird story. Of course, it's a weird story. There is a deviation from the ruling of this Chamber, where the political mandate lies, that there is no longer any justification for an exception to the legal obligation to put animals under stunning prior to slaughter. A covenant path is used for this, but what is agreed on can not be respected until we have laid down this in legal rules. So for the promises made by the covenant parties, it seems necessary to have an AMvB, because otherwise they don't count. I think it's a very strange thing to do. This also applies to the lack of figures from the cabinet, because it has already been said in 2012 that we should actually register.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u146	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u147	I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the unsedated ritual slaughter agreement offers no guarantee of the protection of animals from unnecessary pain and stress prior to and during slaughter;]] [[noting that as a result of the covenant, the number of animals slaughtered unsaturated will increase;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the exception to the statutory ban on unsaturated slaughter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31571-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr President, I would like to make one more point in your direction. I understand that you want to keep the debate short because it exploded rather well, but I think it is now going a little too short. I would have liked a little more room for this important debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u149	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mr. Graus of the PVV. How many motions do you have, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u150	One motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u151	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u152	And then I have to go back to the AO Aviation. I'm in an aviation meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u153	Then you'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u154	I'm at the same time debating, as it's called. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that animals are irreversibly intoxicated before being cut and/or ripped open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31571-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u155	I have already explained to the Chamber that the intoxications of ritual slaughters or torture, as I call them, are reversible. That means an animal can wake up. That happens regularly, and it is not permissible. That's really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u156	Next move. No, you only had one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u157	I only have one, Madam President. It's actually just about banning animal ritual torture. However, since I have had that motion for 11 years, I have now put it a little differently. Maybe the motion will be more likely; who knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you. I am going to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated in my first term that this is also an extremely critical form of social compromise for GroenLinks, in which we too have and maintain our hesitations and doubts. That has not changed substantially after this debate. The Minister has given adequate answers to a number of questions. We have to establish that we are working with the AMvB as it currently exists from 1 January. That is what my group will be waiting for in the first instance. We are going to follow the matter closely and will undoubtedly be discussing it again in the course of next year, or at any time. Then we will make the weighing again whether this is the ultimate workable, manageable and acceptable compromise, or whether we need to go further or further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, as DENK, we want to indicate that we are in favour of freedom of religion. Article 6 is very important to us, for all believers, Muslims, Jews and Christians. I believe that society, civil society organisations and businesses/slaughterhouses have done a great deal to find a form that is animal-friendly so that the animal suffers the least pain. I appeal to this Chamber to stop taking further measures now so that the Council of State's opinion is finally affected. The opinion of the Council of State towards the Chamber is: look at Article 6. That's guaranteed. What we are doing now may still be possible, but if we go one step further to make it difficult for people, believers, in the Netherlands to eat halal meat or kosher meat, then I think we are going to trample our Constitution, which we all stand for. I call on colleagues to take into account the opinion of the Council of State and the knowledge that society has done so when submitting proposals and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u162	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can answer right away. That's the case. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand misunderstood something I said. She said that I said that the covenant cannot be respected. I didn't say that. I have said that it cannot be legally enforced. It can of course be observed, but there were different insights about how it should be observed, especially about the criteria you apply when it comes to the crucial question of whether or not an animal is permanently unconscious. This has led to this delay. We did not use this delay as an opportunity to get rid of the covenant. On the contrary, we have used this period to deepen the consensus and reach a solution which everyone supports. We are pleased that this has been achieved. I have received a motion from Mrs Ouwehand in which she asks the government to delete the exception to the legal ban on unsaturated slaughter. 30. The European regulation states that there is such an exception. We in the Netherlands continue to implement this. I think we are doing this with that covenant in a very responsible way. This creates a wider support base and with the AMvB the possibility for the government to control everything. So I think this is better than what is being proposed to the Chamber in the motion. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 30 by Mrs Ouwehand. The motion in part No. 31 Mr Graus says that the government must ensure that animals are irreversibly intoxicated before they are dealt with. I don't want to do anything special here. I believe that these are methods of stunning which have or have not been authorised under the European Regulation 1099. It states what applies to abattoirs and a whole range of aspects, including the abattoirs where ritually intoxicated slaughter is carried out. This means that these methods must be applied. They are partly irreversible and partly reversible. I therefore believe that we should not make a distinction in this matter ourselves and lay down provisions for it. They are contained in the European regulation and it is up to us in the Netherlands to apply them. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 31 by Mr Graus. Then Mr Grashoff has given a number of assessments which I have noted with interest. This will certainly be discussed again in subsequent debates. I have noted that Mr Öztürk attaches great importance to the opinion of the Council of State. I am sure he will do so in the future with other legislative proposals. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-6.u165	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
