ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Kingdom relations budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u2	Today, the Secretary of State answers the questions raised by the Court in the first term. By the way, welcome. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would also like to welcome the people in the President's Lodge. These are the authorized ministers of Aruba and Saint Martin, Mr Yrausquin and Mrs Doran-York. They are accompanied by their assistants, Mr Kock and Mr Van Rooij. You're very welcome. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It's special to be standing right here in this place. I must say that yesterday I was very welcome and very much congratulated by the Chamber. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for that. Some members even wished me wisdom and strength. I expect to be able to use it well, as well as the 'warm heart' and the 'cool head' that Mr Bosman wanted me to use. Two weeks after my arrival, I can discuss the Kingdom relations budget with you. That comes after an eventful year. A year in which Sint-Maarten, Saba and Eustatius were struck by heavy hurricanes, the consequences of which will continue to dread for a long time. And it was a year, we haven't forgotten, that both Curaçao and Aruba had a new government, although the formation on Aruba isn't quite complete. A year in which the relationship with the Netherlands was sometimes strengthened, but in which we have also rediscovered the importance of stability, cooperation and solidarity. Mr President, yesterday I first felt the involvement of the whole Chamber with our Kingdom. I also look forward to working together in the near future. If I may, on the basis of three cubes, I shall do so in this Chamber, with cubes; then the President will know where we are going to answer the questions and make a number of statements. First of all, emergency aid and reconstruction, including the current political situation in Saint Martin, then the issue of good governance and how I intend to implement it, and finally the coordinated and practical approach to especially socio-economic problems in the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of September, like all of us, I followed with dismay the reports of the devastation caused by hurricanes Irma and Mary on Saint Martin, Saba and Saint Eustatius. Hurricane Irma had a disruptive effect on the daily life of the inhabitants, especially on St.Maarten. Not only have the buildings and vital infrastructure been damaged, there was and is a lot of personal suffering. Although Saba and Sint-Eustatius were just outside the devastating path of Irma, Hurricane Irma has done a lot of damage here. In addition to the houses, the port of Saba and the landing site on Sint-Eustatius are damaged. As soon as the hurricanes pass, emergency aid has started to be provided to the three islands. I am pleased to see that all the countries of the Kingdom have worked together to achieve this. It indicates that the power of action of the Kingdom is great at the moments that really matter. The aid action of the Red Cross shows that the European Dutch also feel involved in the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom. In recent weeks the Dutch government has invested heavily in helping Sint-Maarten, Saba and Eustatius. The great commitment of many people has been extremely important, including that of hundreds of soldiers, police officers, ambulance workers and civil servants. An air bridge has been set up for the transportation of people in need of medical assistance and, among other things, His Majesty's Charles Doorman has delivered goods, such as tarpaulins, construction equipment and garbage trucks. A lot of work has also been done to re-open all schools. I am proud of this speedy and effective commitment and would like to express my deep appreciation for all those who have contributed. The emergency phase is due to end on 1 December, but aid is still coming and its aid workers are active on the islands. By accepting this position, I committed myself to shaping a strong Dutch contribution to the reconstruction of the three islands. From day one, I've been committed to this dossier with enthusiasm. I immediately took a number of steps to start early reconstruction. I've been in frequent contact with the governor of Saint Martin. In all these talks, I have called for swift acceptance of the clear conditions of the Netherlands, so that the people of St.Maarten can also see a rapid improvement in their situation. And as you know, this is about setting up the integrity room and strengthening border surveillance. I also asked the governor to provide further information and an appreciation of the practical and legal feasibility of holding elections during the current crisis situation. I also asked him to appreciate the central polling station of Saint Martin, which some of you spoke about yesterday. I will now answer a number of specific questions on emergency aid and reconstruction that Members raised yesterday in the first term. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how we would ensure that the people of Saint Martin, Saba and Saint Eustatius have a good future perspective. This naturally starts with the hurricane-proof construction of the homes that have been destroyed and prepare the country for a possible new hurricane. In addition, attention should also be paid to the socio-economic impact. From the moment the hurricanes hit the islands, the Dutch government has made a direct effort to improve the situation there. For example, repairs have been carried out to the vital infrastructure. Roads are accessible again, the port, the airport and the hospital are operational again, the electrical generating capacity is 100% again and there is also plenty of food, water and medicine available. However, additional work is still needed in the context of reconstruction in a number of sectors, such as the full recovery of the airport, waste disposal and prison. At present, the Dutch government has provided substantial emergency aid to the three islands. In this phase of emergency aid, the highest priority is to provide assistance to those in greatest need. That has therefore been the central issue. Also in the phase of planning about the Dutch contribution to reconstruction, the people most vulnerable will have the attention. I'll be right back to talk about that. For Sint-Maarten, the Dutch government is prepared to make a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of the country. I feel with you the urgency to start this reconstruction soon, given the situation on the island. Mr Van Raak rightly pointed out yesterday that this reconstruction cannot wait and should not be part of political games. I fully agree with him. He therefore asked for insight into the plans and wanted to know who the performers were. That's a fair question. I understand that question, too. He indicated that we want to help as many people as possible on the island itself and not consultancies. I will not repeat the names he mentioned, because this is not a commercial after all. I, too, attach great importance to exploiting the potential of the local labour market. However, it is still too early for me to inform you exactly about the scale of reconstruction, simply because the decision-making process has not yet been completed. But it will be a considerable sum; I can tell you that. I will inform you in the very near future if there is more information. You can expect that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u4	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u5	Not that, but I saw that this was a natural moment for Mr Van Raak to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yes, I have also seen Mr Van Raak, but I would suggest that the Secretary of State conclude this point. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions, Mr Van Raak. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u7	I'm like laundry in your hands, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u8	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u9	And so is Mr Van Raak. That's very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'll hold you to that. I've memorized it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Bosman asked me to make it crystal clear when the plans for the reconstruction of Saint Martin become concrete that this is project-like and that the money we put into it is spent responsibly and transparently. I agree with him on that, too. I believe that the Dutch financial contribution to the reconstruction of Sint-Maarten will benefit the inhabitants of Sint-Maarten, because that is what we are all doing. That's exactly what I heard yesterday. The Dutch money must be spent in an honest and transparent manner. Mr Bishop asked me to reflect on these conditions, given that Saint Martin is an autonomous country within our Kingdom. We want to get to work quickly to help the population in a way that directly benefits the population, with the resources deployed being spent efficiently and lawfully. This means, among other things, that projects must be carried out in a fair manner. That integrity room, which we have always asked for, is an absolute condition for giving money at all. I can't say that enough. We would like to help the people of Saint Martin, but that means that we have to make sure that the money ends up in a good way. I want to make no mistake about that. Arriving at that integrity room, some members asked about the role of this chamber in reconstruction. In the letter of 13 October last year from my predecessor to the Prime Minister of St.Maarten, the integrity chamber was, among other things, a precondition for financial support for reconstruction. So that integrity chamber should also be able to function. It must be an independent body that gives advice and makes proposals on integrity policy to the Government of St.Maarten and, where there are suspicions of integrity violations, also carries out research. Furthermore, as has already been mentioned, I cannot at present inform you of specific aspects of reconstruction, because the Government of Saint Martin has not yet accepted these conditions. We do have a majority in the States, though, I have already indicated that this is a positive thing, but the government has not yet done so. When St Martin agrees to these conditions, I will see how third parties and international organisations can play a role. Mrs Kuik spoke about this yesterday when she talked about the World Bank. We're in touch with that. The World Bank is also a great partner to be able to participate in this. That needs to be further worked out. I'm having a first talk about that next Friday. As soon as I know more about this, you will also be informed of the commitment to Mr Van Raak. Some members asked some more practical questions about the Dutch commitment to reconstruction. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how I looked at the possibilities of making houses on Sint-Maarten more sustainable and Mrs Diertens referred in her question to an article in Trouw, in which experts recommended relatively simple and cheap solutions to make houses hurricane-proof. I can tell you that it is in the interests of the people there but also in the interests of the Dutch Government..... that we want to spend the money there in such a way that it is sustainable in time.............................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, investments are often higher when you take such measures, but if it can ultimately be profitable, you should do so right now, precisely in this situation where houses literally have to be rebuilt from scratch. So that's a good time to look at that. It's not like I'm gonna be a builder on Saint Martin in the position I'm in. The people will do it themselves, under supervision of course, so that the money is well spent. But I will at least say that, as far as we are concerned, these sustainable solutions are being applied as much as possible. For the inhabitants of Saba and Sint-Eustatius, the Dutch government has a different responsibility than for the inhabitants of Sint-Maarten. This has to do with the structure and the Statute. The cabinet has agreed that wherever the departments have their responsibilities, they must also take them. That's what's gonna happen. For example, the Tax Administration deals with the people who cannot comply with their tax obligation and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has set up a ferry service between Saba, Saint-Eustatius, Saint-Maarten and Saint Kitts. Much of the damage repair, for example to ports, airports and homes, falls under the island responsibility of Saba and Sint-Eustatius. However, I have also noted that the islands do not have sufficient financial resources to tackle this task, and that is why we are currently taking stock of the overall damage to both islands and the solution that can be offered. I will also inform your Chamber on this point in the short term. Several members asked me to deal with the political situation on St.Maarten. As your Chamber is aware, the Government of Saint Martin has offered its resignation after a motion of censure had been accepted in the States. Two motions have also been tabled, one of which called on the government in particular to give its full and full agreement to the conditions which my predecessor had sent to the Prime Minister in a letter. That is a positive signal, and, also in connection with yesterday's debate, I would like to say that whatever government there is in Sint-Maarten, this government is an interlocutor for the Netherlands. Of course you could say that we prefer a missionary government. That's what we have in the Netherlands. But any missionary government can be demissionary in theory tomorrow, so it's a fake security to pursue that. It is, therefore, a question of the government that sits in this House agreeing to these agreements and conditions, just because we cannot afford to make it a political game, to wait for it until there is a so-called stable government. For the only people who suffer from it are the inhabitants of Saint Martin. Elections have been held for 8 January 2018 and the governor, with whom I am therefore in regular contact, is currently holding consultations on the appointment of an interim cabinet instead of the current missionary Marlin cabinet. The governor appointed Franklyn Meyers as a reformer yesterday. Several questions have been asked, for example by Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak, about the dissolution decision of 3 November 2017, the decision to dissolve the States of Saint Martin, and about the possibility of postponing or aborting the elections of Saint Martin. Disbandment of parliament belongs to the autonomy of the country of Saint Martin. The adoption of a country decision is then the responsibility of the governor, as head of the government of St.Maarten, i.e. as a land body. He then acts under the political responsibility of the Prime Minister of Saint Martin. The power to dissolve the parliament is an important power of the government, which is a counterweight to the power of the States to send the cabinet home. The State Order of Sint Maarten requires that within three months of the dissolution decision, in this case no later than 2 February 2018, the States meeting in new composition. A number of members expressed concerns about the holding of new elections in Saint Martin, given the state in which the island is now in. Let me be very brief: I fully share those concerns. I therefore asked the governor in writing last Monday for further information from himself and from the President of the Central Voting Office of St.Maarten on the practical possibilities and opportunities of elections on 8 January 2018. After all, the importance of fair and free elections, which are not contested because they are not well organised, is very great. In the meantime, I took note of the practical and legal objections raised by the President of the Central Voting Office by Mr Bosman yesterday. A number of you asked: does the Dutch Government, the Kingdom Government, intend to intervene on the basis of the guarantee function in order to guarantee fair elections and, according to Mr Bosman's option yesterday, postpone the matter for a while? I would like to stress that intervention in autonomy is an extremely difficult measure, especially when it comes to the exercise of the power of the Government of Saint Martin to dissolve the States. This must therefore be based on a very serious justification. I'm gonna wait for the governor's further information. I've been in touch with him today. He has promised to send me a letter before or at the weekend following his talks with the President of the Central Voting Office and with the Prime Minister. On the basis of that letter, I would like to make an assessment of the situation that has arisen. Of course, I will then report to the Chamber on this. In summary, the Dutch government cooperates with any cabinet that is willing to cooperate and has accepted our terms. The governor has started consultations to investigate the possibility of an interim cabinet. This situation must not lead the people of Saint Martin to wait for the start of reconstruction. However, the proposals for border control and the integrity room are and will continue to be endorsed. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if we could offer help in organising the elections in Saint Martin, if requested. This is possible under Article 36 of the Statute of the Kingdom, but, of course, it is only when we are clear whether elections can take place in these circumstances at all. And, of course, there must be a request for it. Mr President, this was the end of the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u12	You're talking about a "block," but they're huge blocks. Mr Van Raak already wanted to interrupt. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u13	I thank the Secretary of State for the clarity he has provided. He says first of all: as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, reconstruction must begin as soon as possible. That's good news for all the people on Saint Martin. But the people on Sint-Maarten are also starting to get worried and angry at the Netherlands because it all takes so long. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that the money is ready, the plans are ready and the execution is ready, but that we are waiting for a signature from Saint Martin? And who's gonna sign that? There's a formatter in progress right now. If we want to proceed tomorrow in a manner of speaking, who should sign it today in Saint Martin so that we can begin reconstruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u14	That's a fair question. We would like to begin reconstruction. The States have taken a majority decision. Those are the states that are there now, and perhaps they will be other states if there were elections in January. Anyway, it's about the states of today. And there's a prime minister. He may be outgoing, but he's the one who should accept the terms, as far as I'm concerned. Then you have both on the side of the States and on the side of the government commitment. Let me be very clear: formal decision-making in the Netherlands is precisely the reason why I cannot yet inform you about the details. This decision-making process has not yet been completed either. That will happen soon. So we are basically done. But whatever we are going to do, we want to help with reconstruction, we want to close the emergency phase and continue it will always be conditional. In other words, if the new States or the new government reverts to the agreements made, the consequence will be no different than that the Netherlands suspends, temporises or suspends aid. I do not want to anticipate that, but I would like to outline the scenarios, the options. So there is always the possibility that we reserve that right to stop aid if, to take it as big as politics, we would change our minds on Saint Martin in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u15	In the ideal case, therefore, we will soon have a government of national unity in Saint Martin, a business office with which we can do business and thus start reconstruction very quickly. But we also know the politics of Saint Martin and the chances of that happening are very small. There is a good chance that there will be political strife, political quarrel, especially in the run-up to elections. So the chances are very high that the politics of Saint Martin will not be that stable partner with whom we can carry out the reconstruction. In that case, does the Secretary of State still believe that reconstruction should take place because the people of Saint Martin need it? If so, what opportunities does he see within the Statute for starting these projects within the Kingdom, regardless of the government and the squabble of politics in Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u16	I think I've already answered that question. Yesterday, I fully understood to the House that helping Saint Martin is of the utmost importance. But that aid cannot be unconditional and not without commitment. So I sincerely hope that the people will understand the message from the Dutch Government, supported by the Dutch Parliament, to start reconstruction also in the run-up to possible elections; there are several scenarios that we may well understand, namely that we are setting these conditions, that we are prepared to help and that the choice of the population in elections determines how things proceed. So in fact, you can say that the people of St.Maarten have their own destiny in their own hands by choosing elections and that they have the country of the Netherlands as their partner, which is also politically willing to join them, because they are in huge trouble there. But then we can also ask for a number of things. I don't think that's much more than reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u17	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u18	That's right, but then the Secretary of State starts with elections in January and then we might have a stable government in February. And until then? Until then, the families have no roof, no work, no income. That's a tragedy. So what are we gonna do until then? Are we going to accept any political wrangling on Saint Martin, which is certainly not theoretical in view of the elections? So that means we're not gonna do anything in that case. Or are we going to do something and see how, within the framework of the Kingdom, we can take responsibility for providing a roof, still providing a job and still providing an income?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u19	The latter is the case. So I would say: what happens politically, I have no judgment on that. You displayed that extensively here yesterday. I can imagine anything, even in the past few years. Of course, it's far from stable. However, in the Netherlands too, we sometimes have discussions about cabinets with a single seat majority. So we need to put it in perspective a little bit. Anyway, it's something else. I think it is important that we start with this reconstruction. Any politician in Saint Martin who does not agree with that must simply say so. Then people have something to choose. And someone who says "we support that," we stick to that. We are reliable in our agreements. Then we expect the same from the other side. I have no need to play a political game over the back of people who have experienced terrible disasters, who are without a home or a fireplace. We just have to help them. That was the signal I heard yesterday. You have also referred to the Statute. Of course, there are all options, but I don't want to anticipate that until I receive the letter from the governor in which he did his job. Well, that could be next week, but it's the first thing we're gonna do is start that help. I will do everything I can to complete the decision-making that still needs to be taken in the Netherlands as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. Let me make a preliminary remark. Because this is such a big block, I actually have more questions than I can ask at once. But let me just confine myself to the political situation and ask you a very sharp question. I heard the Secretary of State right. He wants to start agreements as soon as possible, and if there is an interim government, it can do so even if there is mutual trust that we meet each other's conditions. But what if we continue with the elections? Is there such mutual trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u21	For me, it's separate. It is not so important whether there are elections or in a year's time, except for the fact that I am wondering at the moment whether these elections can be carried out properly at all. It is important to make agreements with the government that is sitting there, whether it is outgoing like this government or whether it is an interim cabinet or whatever. It is just like in the Netherlands: a outgoing cabinet can make agreements with third parties. We can do that here, too. I say immediately that this is a gesture from the Netherlands. That gesture must be answered. When this does not happen, I reserve the right to suspend or withdraw the commitments made on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u22	I understand the latter. At the same time, we also have the Dutch political situation. Your coalition colleague VVD said that we can only make agreements if there are no elections in January. I just heard the CDA Secretary of State say something else. If a motion will be tabled in the near future that will make it dependent on the momentum of elections, how will you deal with that? And what are we supposed to do with that in our own judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u23	That's "what if." I would say: let the motion come, because then I can judge it. Right now, it's very clear to me. I do not want to be dependent on elections, but I share the concerns of the Chamber as to whether those elections can be held. That process is still ongoing. I've set out actions for it, including towards the governor. In the phone call I made with him today, I indicated that I have concerns about it. I said that in the letter of office in the direction of the governor. He's taking stock of that case right now, along with the Prime Minister. He also consults with the head of the polling station. We have seen that letter to which Mr Bosman referred. It's not tender what's in there. There are both practical and legal objections. I will not now, if you will allow me, and publicly anticipate all kinds of scenarios, because there are indeed all kinds of scenarios, which we also know. I'd like to concentrate on the answer that's coming. If, for example, the answer is that elections could be organized, then, as far as I am concerned, they can just happen. That is the authority of the country itself. However, I would like the concerns we have about the practical feasibility of directory files, people who no longer live at their addresses or files that have been destroyed to be resolved in an orderly manner. If there is a need for postponement in order to ensure good elections, then that should be done. But again, that is not our decision. It's a decision of the country. We're going to start reconstruction. If politics is different and majorities in the States would be different from the majority that exists today, and if that new majority says that the Dutch conditions must be fully and fully taken over, then we will see that again. But I've already said a few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u24	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u25	In substance, I am on the same lines with the Secretary of State and he speaks about the same words as I said yesterday, both about the concerns and the autonomous position. I called it "almost a paradox." At the same time, we are dealing with the Dutch political situation, in which I hear coalition colleague and cabinet colleague VVD say very loudly: no, I do have a condition. If there's a motion, I want to know how we're gonna deal with it later. I think that is a very legitimate question, which I have to ask you because we will have to consider it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mrs. Kuik may ask that question. There will only be a second deadline, in which motions will be tabled. We can then have the debate on that. I understood Mr Bosman yesterday mainly in such a way that he said: I am very concerned about whether it is wise to hold elections. I told you before, I'm gonna share that. That's why I turned off actions. I think it would be a good idea to wait for the answers to that first. I have not heard Mr Bosman say very loudly that it must necessarily last a year. In my view, he has given it mainly as a suggestion to indicate that it did not seem sensible to him at the moment. Once again, I can imagine anything, but I would point out that it is the authority of the country and that it is not up to the Dutch Government to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u27	Mrs Van Tongeren, I know your turn, but I think Mr Bosman would like to explain something. At least, I have that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yes, Mr President, because it bothers me that Mrs. Kuik keeps trying to put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I said I was very worried about the January elections. They're already working on it in the very short term. In two days' time, CVs will have to be filed for new cabinet members. They should be there on the border in December. In January, the elections will be held. That makes it very unstable. That's all I said. You have to ask yourself if it makes sense to do business with such a cabinet, because you know that you have another cabinet in January. All these things belong in the same row, just like the election. I never said you shouldn't do business, but I did say there are serious concerns about stability. That's to correct Mrs. Kuiken, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u29	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr President, I am very sorry, but there is now a debate through the interrupting microphone, when very harsh words have been expressed in the newspapers in particular. It's about a very complicated thing. I share the concerns. I also think January is unfortunate timing, and so I want to know exactly how he is in it, how he weighs it and what that means for our weighing. We want to stand up for the people who are the victims in Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u31	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too have heard Mr Bosman on the radio and read in the newspaper. I am glad that there is now a more workable attitude by saying now what the Secretary of State also says: the country itself is basically about it, and when we are asked for help, we do so. They are not completely crazy either, they have their own electoral college which can also oversee exactly the things Mr Bosman mentioned. It is up to them to decide whether and when they intend to postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u33	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u34	My question would be as follows. Emergency aid is now being given. The Secretary of State says that under conditions, I can suspend or suspend reconstruction aid. The political squabble and the power game, I'm sure, but I wish the Secretary of State could say that the ordinary woman and the ordinary family on that island get help when they need it: a roof over their head, running water, medical care. Despite what political leaders do and do not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u35	I think it is right to distinguish between the emergency aid that can discharge the first needs and the fact that the country is not at all ready for the next hurricane season. That reconstruction phase is the stage you should be entering. I cannot and will not issue blank cheques here. That is when, after elections, it may be in January, but that may also be in July, the majority of states would say that they do not agree with that integrity chamber or that they want border control to be different, I reserve the right not to allow that investment that the Netherlands wants to make to continue. It's really up to the voter in Saint Martin to decide which direction he wants to go. That seems to me to be very legitimate and very clear in advance. Then everyone knows what he's up to. I sincerely hope that this gesture from our side, once again, I know that many in Parliament, supported by many in Parliament, will be answered by a positive signal at such an election.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u36	Is the Secretary of State also prepared to look at other ways of helping ordinary people, should there be a gap between emergency aid and the need for reconstruction? There are churches there, there are NGOs, there are all kinds of organizations that allow you to keep an eye on that money; I think it is right for the Secretary of State to say so. People who need it very badly shouldn't pull the help out in front of you just because you want to get some things from a government that those ordinary people have very limited influence on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u37	I recognize the latter, but I can't promise it right now. If I did, I would make a promise that I might have to revoke afterwards. I'm not. Of course, we'll keep an eye on it. Let me say it in a positive way: despite history and despite the stories that have been told here in Parliament, politics in Saint Martin is very much aware of the fact that it is at a crossroads where what is to be chosen. Do they want to help the country again with the help of others or do they fall back into internal politics, of which the ordinary Saint Martin will suffer? Of course, no one wants the latter, at least not here. And I hope that this message will also be understood in Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u39	Yes, they understand that in Saint Martin, of course. Move along with the conditions that we as the Netherlands impose or get no reconstruction money. Perhaps without the Secretary of State being able to make a firm commitment, a plan B is also being considered. I hope so. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to do so, so that the ordinary people who really have relatively little influence are at least not deprived of emergency aid first and soon the beginning of reconstruction, it cannot be through the government than through other channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u40	I am well aware that the people who were already in a vulnerable situation have become even more in that position because of a hurricane. This will also be part of the reconstruction plans. I am thinking of education, but also of stimulating the economy. As a result, people with little training may also get a job, and that is the best security of life you can get. I have heard Mrs Van Tongeren correctly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mrs. Chicken, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u42	This is about the integrity room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u43	I think the Secretary of State will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u44	No, it's in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u45	That was in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u47	I understand it's late, but that's because it's a big block and I think it's just as important. I would like to thank the Secretary of State a for the fact that the department is already working with the World Bank to see how they can manage the supervision of that money properly. I think that's very important. Two, I have another question about the integrity room. The letter did say: advice. The Secretary of State adds: also the search. My concern is then whether there is sufficient capacity and expertise to do this right. I doubt that very much. In my opinion, there is a need, among other things, for national police to be able to do that really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's a fair point. This will also be taken into account in the further development. Sint-Maarten himself will play an important role in this. But, of course, we will ensure that such an important condition, which we ourselves have made, is properly operational. Indeed, there is a power to investigate alleged abuses. And, of course, if it really were to become a criminal offence, it would continue to play out, but first and foremost, it would be to monitor the proper use of funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u49	Then I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this commitment. I would like to see in the report we are getting on how this is done exactly, how it is operationalised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u51	I can promise you that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u52	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr. Chairman. Good governance on the islands is our second priority and the importance of good governance is difficult to overestimate. It is a necessary condition for resolving political and social problems and for citizens' confidence in government. Just like in the Netherlands, I'd almost say. Moreover, OECD research shows that there is a direct link between good governance and prosperity. The cabinet is willing to invest extra in the islands under the condition that good governance and financial accountability are secured at an adequate level. It goes without saying that the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and the Caribbean Netherlands have a great responsibility here. We are also counting on them to feel and take that responsibility. The Netherlands can and will support the islands where necessary, for example by developing operational criteria for good governance, which work in the Caribbean context and which can also be assessed. I am going to elaborate on this together with the departments and the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr Bishop asked me what the pursuit of good governance means. We could set up a whole tree on that, but in the context of the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom I would say: especially with regard to law enforcement. And here's what I can tell you. Due to the existing issue, it has been decided to continue funding the Team Combat Undermining until 2021. This part of the detective cooperation team focuses specifically on the undermining island transcendent crime. Undermining is linked between organised crime and governance. The approach that has been going on since last year is now beginning to bear fruit. There is a substantial number of persons and legal entities on the team. Furthermore, the team gets an insight into extensive illicitly acquired capabilities. The first results confirm, unfortunately, the need for this approach. For a lasting result, it is important that the undermining activities encounter broad and sustainable social resistance. Mr Bosman asked me whether this is a good time to set the clocks on the same footing as Saint-Eustatius and together to ensure that they too will get the finances in order and form a sound administration. In view of the administrative and financial situation at St Eustatius, my predecessor decided to set up a committee of wise men, consisting of Mr Refunjol and Mr Franssen. This Committee of Wise Men investigates the functioning of the public body Sint-Eustatius and involves all aspects of both the control of the public body, the board, the island council and management, as well as the execution. The committee reports to me its findings and makes recommendations to a body of quality that is sufficiently functioning. According to the decision of the institution, the committee would present its report at the end of September, which had already been completed, with conclusions and recommendations. The committee has only informed me that the preparation of the report takes more time than was foreseen. She expects to be able to complete her report in early December. If that report is available, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. I have one more point in this block, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked me if I see anything in creating a new delta plan for the Kingdom's relations, including the integral strengthening of the rule of law and the organisation of finances. The Dutch commitment to the law enforcement chain in the Caribbean countries has recently been vetted. This policy review of Article 1, the guarantee function, of the budget of Kingdom relations, will be sent to your Chamber very soon. The cabinet response to this screening will follow at the beginning of the new year. In this I will explain how the cabinet will implement the Dutch contribution to law enforcement in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom in the coming period. This is, of course, in coordination with the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u54	Very happy with the answers in this block. My question is how much money is now available for that Team Combat Undermining. I think we're all very happy that this team is doing that. It may be up to me that I do not follow the budget in its entirety. There's been a cash drawer. Then we also have exchange rate reserves. There should also be a contribution to a negative end-of-year margin. As a result, it may seem that very little money is available. But maybe I'm reading it wrong, and there's just plenty of money available. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u55	I would like to return to this in the second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u56	The Secretary of State begins his contribution with a piece of text from the government agreement, which deals with additional investments and the conditions for doing so: good governance and adequate financial accountability. Next, it is about law enforcement and the use of this cabinet on a number of points. Has the Secretary of State felt the need to ask the islands what the needs are there, and then to be able to adapt the investments to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u57	It's a fair question. I have concentrated on answering the first-term questions, but I am happy to answer Mr Kuzu's question. I'm going that way in two weeks. I'm gonna meet a lot of drivers. My real conviction and commitment is to get together with them a number of things that may not have worked out in recent years. Let's be honest: the relationship is tense in a number of ways. That's what I started with in my introduction. But I also see a lot of opportunities. Those opportunities are that money is available, but also that, when it comes to good governance, we can work together to create projects that actually improve things. For example, when we look at the financial situation, we see that there are still a number of problems. This, of course, also affects the legitimacy of governance. You want the money to be well spent, including their own money. We just have knowledge and expertise. We can help each other. I see it as an equivalent relationship in which the knowledge we have provided can of course be made available already, but even more so to the countries and islands to help them further. It's a bit different for each country or island how far one is. I was just talking about Saint Eustatius. There is still some work to be done, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u58	At first I am satisfied with this basic attitude. It shows the Secretary of State's involvement. I would like to give him some points. Child poverty, for example, is one of the points. The Children's Ombudswoman, the Children's Ombudsman, has written a report on this in the past. The funds for this will then disappear in the 2018 budget. What does the Secretary of State think about that? There is the issue of educational disadvantages on the islands. Of course, there are differences between the islands. Then there are the rising food prices. These are three specific points which I would like to give to the Secretary of State. However, I have a specific need to clarify the issue of child poverty, because the 2018 budget provides for zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u59	The most important thing, I can say in the direction of Mr Kuzu, is that there will be a perspective. That, too, is different; you cannot put all six together. But the most important thing is that there is a perspective, not only because of the hurricane, but also because of the economy, which needs to grow further. Curaçao needs more than it is now. Saba's doing a good job. I think that you should be in line with the opportunities that exist, while at the same time creating a good breeding ground for employment. Mr Kuzu will agree with me that if we try to do that, if we try to make economic development a smooth one, it is the best way to help people out of poverty. I don't deny there's just poverty in some places. There's an eye for that. I have indicated in the written answers to the questions what resources are intended for. Children's rights and education are all elements; if you really want to build a country or an island, you have to start there. I will therefore pay attention to this during my work visits. I'm still pretty new, of course, after a week and a half. It has been a long time since I have been there, but I look forward to getting acquainted and, in particular, to the plans that one has and where we can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u60	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u61	Again, I am satisfied with the basic attitude. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that long-term perspective is important. We are talking here about the 2018 budget. When we talk about children's rights, we are talking about €0 for 2018. That shows little perspective. In the past, at least in the previous period, we have adopted in the Chamber an amendment by PvdA and ChristianUnion, warmly supported by DENK. I would like to ask if the Secretary of State is prepared to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u62	It is true that funds for 2018 have not yet been allocated, that is correct. At the same time, I would like to point out to Mr Kuzu that the programmes that ended financially in 2017 still have an impact on 2018. In other words: the projects continue with money from 2017. That's right. We ask the islands and countries to evaluate carefully and to see what is effective. I assure you there will be an evaluation. It will take place in the first quarter of 2018. On the basis of this evaluation, I would like to see whether additional funds are needed for 2018, or whether we can do more, or whether these programmes should continue in this way. But for the time being, Kuzu is right, there are no estimates of resources. But I'd like to look at it, because I think it's an important subject. But I also want to be able to reach a conclusion on the basis of an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u64	If you'll allow me, Mr. President, about that evaluation, first quarter 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u66	I would urge the Secretary of State not to do so at the end of the quarter, but as early as possible in that quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u67	I would have preferred to have promised you that we would do so by the end of the year, but that is not realistic. And I have decided to make commitments that I can also deliver. I've been on your side too, so I know how it works. So first quarter, and I heard you right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u68	Congratulations on continuing research into the connection between the underworld and the upperworld. For four years 48 million; it once began as a motion here from the SP and the VVD. It's true that this investigation has yielded a lot. Gerrit Schotte has been convicted, Corallo is in Italy in court, the Central Bank is cleaned up and infinitely more cases. If we want to offer the people of the islands a future, the Mafia will have to be dealt with first. But if we are going to build Saint Martin and make a lot of money and resources available, I think there are a lot of people in Saint Martin right now that I would like to leave that to them, but there are also a lot of people in Saint Martin who I do not want to have involved at all. In the context of reconstruction, is it also being looked at very closely at the performers and is it also being looked at whether we are not dealing with the underworld?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u69	"Shot in the bull's-eye," I'd say; that's exactly the dilemma. I heard Mr Van Raak say yesterday that he wants as much involvement as possible from companies and people who work there. I also think that should be the ambition. At the same time, we cannot deny that we would be naive if we did. Without mentioning names here now, because I am not going to do that, as you will understand, Mr President, we will, of course, take it into account. We'll keep an eye out. And I'll tell you right away, you better assume it's gonna go wrong someday. There's someone in there once you think "it should have gone well" but you find out it went wrong. We have to accept that. Wherever money is concerned, whether it is in the Netherlands or in the Netherlands, we have had our own scandals over the past few years, whether in other countries or abroad, these things happen. It may also happen on St. Martin's Day. It's not a profit warning I'm giving here, but mistakes will be made here too. That's what we need to learn from. The important thing is that that should not be a reason to say: then we do not do it. But it won't be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u70	But the lesson we have learned is that we should not ignore established names. Large organisations and large companies, multinationals, play a very different role in these islands than they may play in other countries. So I'd like to give the Secretary of State: don't go too fast with the underworld, but don't go too fast with the semi-criminal upperworld, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u71	I can say I have a lot of ambitions. I have also said a number of them. But this wasn't my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u72	Finally, we are talking a lot about Saint Martin, but of course we are also dealing with the reconstruction of Saba and Saint Eustatius. We're getting a lot of reports about that, too. Sometimes the islands feel a bit disadvantaged, because they look very closely at St.Maarten and their reconstruction is linked to the developments on St.Maarten, which they can't help at all. So can the Secretary of State indicate that this reconstruction is about to begin? We don't need a government of Saint Martin for that. And can he also promise here that there will be extra attention and extra investment for the people most affected by the hurricane, namely the people with the lowest incomes, in order to repair the damage that people have suffered in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u73	I am going to answer that Mr Van Raak may be slightly disappointed. That's in the category "I can't report it to you right now." Hopefully, I will be able to say very soon how much money we are going to spend on this. We talk a lot about Saint Martin, and quite rightly so. But the other islands, Saba and Saint Eustatius, are of course not forgotten. I'm going to visit there in two weeks, at the same time as visiting Saint Martin. I'll see for myself what happened there. They have been hit a little less, but also very much, and there are really some serious problems. The Dutch Government is also extremely aware of this. But I can't promise that right now. This simply has to do with the fact that we have not yet completed our own decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u75	I'll be on my last block. Then you know what time it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u77	This is about strengthening the coordinating role of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations in order to better address problems. This is about the socio-economic problems that some of you talked about, such as poverty and how to help that economy get going. I would particularly like to use my coordinating role to substantially improve the situation of vulnerable groups in the Caribbean Netherlands. Fortunately, health care and education have improved significantly since 10 October 2010. That's a good thing, too. It is now time that the enormous amount of energy and resources made available in recent years also resulted in economic improvement for all. In its report of October 2015, the Spies evaluation committee points out a "shredded and sometimes contradictory approach on the Dutch side." The current secluded approach of the Empire is not only inefficient; we also export our own national problems to the small islands, wherever they are enlarged countries in their local small scale. We do not always realize that when we are here in the Chamber, we adopt legislation, but that, of course, makes it quite complicated. This does not help to achieve the goals we have set, namely more effective policies, legislation and implementation, which better match the islands' need to find practical and task-oriented solutions to local problems. The Netherlands wants to invest heavily in the relationship with the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and Caribbean Netherlands, with extra money, but also by looking at how we can do it better ourselves. I would like to review the policy we have pursued in recent years and, where possible, make proposals for improvement. This applies both to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and to the Caribbean Netherlands. The departments can work better together and thus ensure more effective policies, more focus and better priority setting, a priority that we need to make more and less for the islands, taking into account the need, feasibility and security of measures. As a result, these measures also become more important in the daily lives of the people there. That is why the government agreement has agreed on a stronger coordinating task, including the corresponding budget. With the support of the coalition agreement and hopefully from your Chamber, I am going to work on this and I would like to use the coming period to discuss and come up with proposals on this coordination. The starting point is to allow early management of planning and budgeting. With an integrated policy and investment programme, I am convinced that there is a great deal of profit to be gained. During this cabinet period, 900 million is earmarked for tackling regional bottlenecks; you have read all of this. Mrs Van den Berg asked how and under what conditions Caribbean Netherlands can claim these funds. She also asked whether the various departments also have Caribbean Netherlands in mind in dealing with these regional bottlenecks, for example in the field of nature and culture. I can say that the government has not yet taken any decisions on the allocation of these funds for the examples of regional bottlenecks mentioned in the government agreement. Everyone's thinking about that now. I believe that this will be achieved in the very near future. The Minister of LNV and the Minister of BZK are captains. They will work out a plan together in the short term. The priority for the Caribbean Netherlands will be to improve the economic perspective, including by strengthening infrastructure and reducing poverty. There will also be a review of ensuring good governance, financial accountability and a real conservation budget. We would be failing the citizens of the Caribbean Netherlands if we did not set these conditions. But differentiation by island will be necessary. After all, not every island is the same. In fact, they're pretty different. They do not have the same task and investment needs. Therefore, it is currently being examined with other departments how appropriate allocation of resources can be made without losing sight of the local context. In any case, the infrastructure fund's budget will be increased structurally by 100 million. Of these, 5 million are structurally earmarked for the operation of the infrastructure of the Caribbean Netherlands. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management will look at an adequate use of this money. In any case, we are going to look more broadly than just the construction and maintenance of roads, in response to Mrs Dierten's question about concrete measures in the area of economic development and infrastructure in the Caribbean Netherlands. Both infrastructure and economic matters are island tasks and therefore a responsibility of the public body. The cabinet assists the public bodies with resources and expertise. I am referring here to the multi-annual programmes agreed with the public authorities in 2015 and the reaction of the cabinet to the report of the Spies Committee. Examples of investment in this area are, in addition to investments in the quality of administration, the resources from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State for roads and airports, investments in agriculture and nature and investments in renewable energy. Several departments also support public bodies with expertise. The challenge lies mainly in the prioritisation and implementation of plans, given also the small scale of the islands. Here too, cooperation is crucial to further positive development of kingdom relations. Some of you have also indicated this in the first term. This is about cooperation between the Netherlands and the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and the Caribbean Netherlands, but there can also be much more cooperation between them. Making use of each other's capacities will benefit the development of islands and citizens, especially when the challenges are partly the same in many areas. Of course, on my upcoming visits I will address this theme to see how we can do smart things together, not only with money, but also with the interest of the islands themselves in mind. 'Cause I think it's gonna help everybody if you really invest in that relationship. Mr President, I do not want a new discussion on structures or on new political reforms. That may be a disappointment for some, but I want to get to work. Together with the inhabitants of the Caribbean region of the Kingdom and the Caribbean Netherlands, I want to ensure that we can make real progress. I think that's also important for that good governance. If there is a government that can deliver, that can show its inhabitants that there is progress, then it automatically ensures stability. A good example of this approach is the Talent Development Programme (TOP) on Bonaire. This was set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in collaboration with the local government. Every year, twelve local participants receive various practical trainings and coaching aimed at personal growth and thus also growth of their organisation. In addition to deepening, knowledge and skills, the TOP builds a local network of professionals. The second edition started in September 2017. This programme has now been extended to include traineeships. Six young professionals with Caribbean roots who have studied in the Netherlands have been working on Bonaire for at least two years. In addition to a workplace, they also receive training and coaching through the TOP. With this, the TOP community consists of a total of 30 young professionals. I refer to this example in reply to Mrs Van den Berg's question as to whether an internship in the Netherlands should become a permanent part of the training programme in the future. An internship can contribute to this, can make a real contribution. I would not go so far as to say that this is a requirement, because then people might fall off again. It is very good to take the experiences of here and to exchange knowledge and experience over and over again. So how we do this remains custom-made. I'm open to that. I do not think that we should put down some sort of blueprint: this is the way it should be. We also need to look at the needs in the different places. For example, since September 2017, Saba's local official has been employed here for a period of three months in the Kingdom Relations Directorate. Ms Van Tongeren asked about setting up a training course for female talent in public administration. Training courses are currently offered to directors, island council members and supervisors. My ministry is making a wide use of this administrative development. There is no specific policy aimed at women. However, I can inform Mrs Van Tongeren that the first edition of the TOP consisted of ten women and two men. Without a policy, things sometimes go well. That's very nice. You're looking a little serious, but it's a nice message. But apparently Mrs Van Tongeren sees that differently, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u78	Mrs. Van Tongeren, it was a nice message, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u79	It's definitely a nice message. But I heard from the women drivers there on the island that it was a one-off action, with at least the women having the overwhelming majority, and that it had a very positive effect. Of course, I am totally in favour of training men as well: the better the men are trained, the better. But if you want to have a certain group even better represented on the board, it sometimes works better to pay specific attention to it. They experienced it as a women's class. I don't know which men have been in women's class, but I'm sure they've learned a lot from it. That's why I looked a little hard. Do I hear "we're not gonna do this" now, but in a fancy way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u80	I could conclude from this that Mrs Van Tongeren is now arguing for more men, but she did not say that. It's a mixed form. You're always a little dependent on the applications, but your signal is clear and that's how we look at it. You have to try to find a good reflection. I am already very happy that we have so many women involved in this programme. We are also always a little dependent on who signs up for this. In any case, I can promise Mrs Van Tongeren that we will pay attention to this, including in future programmes. It is precisely the good mix that brings good experiences. I really like the fact that there's a lot of women in there. If there are a few fewer men, that's not a problem because in general the men are overrepresented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u81	I have a point of order. What are we gonna do? I'm sitting around waiting for the block to be over, but now there's gonna be interruptions. I'm okay with everything, but then we're gonna have to figure out what exactly we're gonna do tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u82	No, I'm not. That was not the intention, but the Secretary of State made a comment to Mrs Tongeren. That's why she got the floor. But you're right. The Secretary of State was still working on it. In any case, I suggest that he completes this section, because Mr Van Raak has already walked back and forth here a few times. He'll have the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u83	Then I'll make a point of order. The Secretary of State is responding. I'm gonna start a half-interruption, then we're gonna get a point of order and then we're gonna stop. You can, but I'm going to make the same point later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, I think that's fine. Then I suggest the Secretary of State finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Van den Berg asked me if nature and culture have a place in my policy. As mentioned earlier, I will also pay attention to this from my coordinating role and I will ask for attention to it, for example through my colleague from LNV. However, I would like to say quite frankly that the priority is to focus on improving socio-economic development. Sharing expertise is an important condition for further capacity development on the islands. I see that this is offered from several parties and I strongly support it. For example, technical support from BZK to the islands has been offered for their legislative and legal capacity. We also see that knowledge institutions such as the Wageningen University use expertise for the sustainable development of the islands, such as the agricultural project together with Bonaire. Also with kingdom-wide trade missions, expertise is already shared in the economic field, and I want to continue to do so, because it is just very important to have those contacts to exchange experiences. With regard to the essentials of life, Mrs Van den Berg asked me if I intend to bring Caribbean Netherlands and Wageningen University & Research together to realize our own food supply and Mrs Diertens asked about the possibilities to produce locally. I understand the importance of this, of that local production and of the sharing of knowledge there is in the Netherlands. Of course, we are number one in the world when it comes to expertise in agriculture, agribusiness and also innovative agriculture with our friends. There are several agricultural initiatives under the Rural Development Plan Bonaire, funded by the Ministry of LNV. In addition, the government works in various areas with public bodies to stimulate agriculture. Examples of this are the school greenhouses project and school fruit. From the WUR, Wageningen, the applied research institutes are mainly active on the islands. This is largely due to international monitoring tasks for the obligations of nature and fisheries treaties. In the short term, the WUR will work on an algal project on Bonaire and I will talk with the public bodies, my colleague from LNV and the WUR to investigate how the islands can provide as much food as possible. I thank the Chamber for this point. That is extremely important. I also think the islands are very pleased with that. I would like to point out, however, that this is of course a danger if you bring in universities and that agriculture is primarily about implementing plans. Research is very important, but let us apply the research results in particular. I would therefore like to focus on that. I believe that, given its expertise, the WUR could also play an important role in this. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members asked in different words about my view of the interrelationships in the Kingdom, and I fully understand this question. The question of the future of the Kingdom can be considered differently. Mr De Graaf mentioned the current situation unfairly and undemocraticly, because the Netherlands cannot leave the Kingdom. He also asked if I would be willing to redeem the Netherlands. Those were his words about the duty of care under Article 73 of the UN Charter. My answer to Mr De Graaf is 'I think he already knows what that answer will be 'that one-sided exit from the Kingdom does not fit the Netherlands and that it cannot.' The right of peoples to self-determination is enshrined in the UN Charter, but also in other treaties to which the Netherlands is a party. It is part of mandatory international customary law. This right also applies to the people of the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, and I cannot and will not remove it. This cabinet would like to focus on constructive cooperation in order to achieve a further positive development of kingdom relations. Of course, I will continue to discuss this with the islands, and this requires commitment from both sides. At the moment, I do not have compelling insights into the interrelationships within our Kingdom. I am particularly committed to improving the living conditions of the people there and to improving cooperation. History has connected us in the Kingdom, and we must constantly shape and content this connection, especially after this year's dramatic events. The cabinet is taking up reconstruction vigorously, strengthening the coordinating role to better address poverty and other problems and is committed to promoting good governance. Of course we do so in constructive cooperation with the Caribbean Netherlands and the autonomous countries within our Kingdom. We are not here yet, but together we have overcome great setbacks and together we can also achieve more prosperity and stability. You can rest assured that I will make a firm commitment to this in the near future. As I noticed yesterday, you're going to do the same. There was a lot of enthusiasm on the side of the Chamber. Not everyone agrees on everything, but there is a lot of commitment and I am pleased. I look forward to our cooperation and the visit I will be making in the coming weeks to the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom and Caribbean Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions in the first period and, if not, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yes. I thought there was a second term, too, but okay. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u87	When I heard that Mr Knops was going to be Secretary of State, I thought: these will be few great visions, but many practical solutions. And I'm kind of happy about that in the current circumstances. We just have the next problem. For example, look at Saba, an island that is proud, solves a lot of problems and, as far as I know, also solves a lot of local problems better than the ten ministries here in The Hague. Now, as a Chamber, we have had a number of discussions with parliamentarians from the other countries and with the island council members of Saba, and we have made a promise that Saba will be able to do more on her own because it is in order. But the leaders and the island council members of Saba always say to run into closed doors in ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u88	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u89	Can this Secretary of State promise that he will make arrangements with Saba to ensure that it gets more autonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u90	This point had already become to me in the one and a half week, two weeks that I am now in office. I would also like to say here, from this place, that Saba is really an example on many fronts, of governance, doing good things, stability. That's something we cherish. In general, I think that this kind of thing always applies: less for less, more for more. When you perform, you deliver, there's more room to do things. That could be in financial space, making the free space bigger. That's a possibility. I'd like to take a closer look at that. I understand Mr Van Raak's question, but he will probably understand that I have not answered it yet. I'll go visit Saba in two weeks. This will undoubtedly be the subject of discussion. If I didn't make it, they'd definitely do it. I hope that Mr Van Raak will allow me first to form my own picture of this and then, if necessary, to come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u91	What I would like to give you briefly is the agreements we have made as parliamentarians, MPs and MPs. The previous minister also made these agreements with Saba. So politics agrees. Only, at the moment that Saba's leaders come to a ministry, does there turn out to be a completely different reality. We can decide here as politics of everything, but if it does not happen in the ministries, then Saba will be of no use to the people. Would the Secretary of State want to take that with him and see how he could do something about it in his new coordinating role?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u92	I agree with Mr Van Raak that the reality of The Hague, the Dutch reality, is often quite different from that of Saba, for example. We are not always aware of this when we talk about legislation that has passed through. The Spies Committee has also indicated that we should take it easy to implement all kinds of legislation, because you are asking about such a small public body with many things. I realize that very well. They are special islands and we have to deal with them in a special way. Like I said, I don't want to talk about constitutional reform. You can set up whole trees about that, but the question is whether people were helped with that. I want practical solutions. I'm open to it. If the drivers deliver there, I think it is my job, and that is also my new role, to open doors here in The Hague where they have remained closed in the past. I'll do my best to do that. I also need to give this role more form and content, but you can continue to appeal to me because I really believe that if you do it that way, you will also have support. Then there will be equal cooperation and there will also be a signal to those who do not have it in order, that they will have to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u93	I had raised three issues in my first term. The Secretary of State replied to one of these questions. I didn't really expect us to get close to that either, but okay. This can be discussed in the second term. I also asked a question about the establishment requirements for people coming from other countries to the Netherlands. Under the previous cabinet, that was left behind. That has not yet been answered, so I would like an answer to that. My third question was about Bonaire. I have raised an idea of the authority there, of which Bonaire can be of great benefit, without taxing the Netherlands. It is a good idea, a small increase in the road tax there, which will hardly affect the population, and without the need to provide Dutch money, to clean up the road network there and thereby boost tourism and other vital infrastructure. Can the Secretary of State please answer these two questions in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u94	Mr. Chairman. I forgot to mention that some of the questions were answered in writing at the start of my first term. Those two questions from Mr De Graaf were indeed answered in writing. You're looking a little... I suggest that if you have any further questions in response to that answer, you will return to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u95	That's fine. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u96	This may also apply to my question. Thanks for the answer. However, in order to be able to do it completely and adequately in the second round, I would like to take a closer look at the coordinating powers of the Secretary of State, who was still with the Minister in the previous cabinet period. It was swimming in syrup to get things done once in a while, just to sum it up. What else has been organized so that this Secretary of State with the coordinating powers goes further than the Minister in the previous government period? I do not know whether that question has been answered in the written answer. I didn't see it, because I didn't have time today to keep track of all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u97	No, and you have no speaking time in the second term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u98	No, but to thank the Secretary of State for his excellent answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u99	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u100	I can reassure Mr Bishop. He did not appear in the written reply, so all his questions were answered in plenary. But then I probably haven't been entirely clear. I can imagine, because this is a tough file. When you talk about coordinating in The Hague, it is often about who is talking about what. Let me get this straight: the departments are still dealing with budgets. But if we are talking, for example, about reconstruction, which still involves a great deal of money, then there is a very strong coordinating task. Where new money comes, there is a strong coordinating task. The fact that it was included in the coalition agreement is a very clear signal. It will be up to me to discuss this in practice with my fellow executives, to ring the bell where necessary and to ensure that things are streamlined towards the countries and islands. How can I put it nicely? In the past, there have been initiatives that have not always been congruent. Just when you talk about good governance and more for more and less for less, you have to do it in a coordinated way. That is not to include in kind of job description; that is occasionally a bit of exploration. But I'm not hoping for the metaphor you just mentioned, because then it won't be so beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u101	I do not doubt the intention and ambition for a moment, but the practice has proved to be very stubborn over and over again. Let me put it this way. I would urge the Secretary of State to ensure that, if this experience recurs, which will result in a new series of stagnation, the committee will be adequately informed to see if we can play a supporting role towards the Secretary of State. That's a bit of a weird figure, but maybe it'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u102	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u103	I would say: that seems very good, critical, but supportive. If these things happen, of course I'll report it. It is also up to these spokesmen to help guard that, because ultimately it is not about who is in charge of the money. That's not the point at all. The point is that we use the resources available in a good and coordinated way. This requires not only me but also the officials involved throughout the ministries, a particular mindset. We're gonna have to name that once in a while. It will not all happen on its own; I am well aware of that. But I'm extremely motivated to pick that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u104	I have a few more questions on the basis of the written answer. It's about the coral reef. A task force was promised to be set up. That task force is now being established with the islands, and that is very good. I just didn't get a complete answer to the question of whether the Secretary of State would like to support this. My question is whether he wants to play a role in the implementation of this task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u105	I think that Mrs Diertens makes a very good point here, and it immediately becomes clear that we must do things together with the countries and islands. It may well be that the priorities here in The Hague are different from those there. I must say that I am going to make this point in the discussions I will have, because I think I must send out the signals from the Chamber. But we must realise that we do not impose dictatorships. We think that is very important. I agree with you that this is very important, but I also want to respect the autonomy of the countries very strongly. It's very tempting to say that we're gonna take care of that, that's what we're gonna do. But this is precisely one of those examples where you have to be convinced together that it is useful. I am convinced, and I also want to help others to make that movement, but we are not going to impose it from The Hague as far as I am concerned. And if there is any need for help, if we can do something about that, then that's a bit of the role we have. I'm always open to seeing if we can use knowledge, experience and skill to assist in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u106	Then I have another question about the HBO and WE students coming to the Netherlands. I am very pleased to note that the guidance is already being streamlined and that there are already activities in this area, but my question was also about the bsn number and the health insurance. There are also a number of other issues that come to our attention, so I would very much like to have more answers on how we are going to organise and regulate this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u107	I can say that I will return to that in the second term. 'Cause you asked that question in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yes. Then you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u109	In line with what Mr Bishop asked, the following. I had asked, among other things, whether the Secretary of State considers that he has sufficient powers to fulfil adequately what is contained in the coalition agreement, namely that he has a coordinating role and also the corresponding budget. I can understand if the Secretary of State may not be able to answer that at this time, but I think it is very important to give the Secretary of State every support for his position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u110	Part of that is still part of the decision-making process. So with colleagues I will have to come up with some good proposals for the 900 million. That really isn't a running race. So if you ask me if I am sufficiently equipped to carry out the tasks that belong to my portfolio, then I say: it can always be more. Anyway, we'll have to make choices in the Cabinet, and I'll argue there why money is needed. But in advance, I have no indication that I would not be able to do enough with that. It will be particularly important how we will be able to work together in the field of vocational training. For example, with St.Maarten, where a lot will be available in one go, it is a matter of political management to ensure that this goes well. So this is going to be a very important aspect of my work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u111	As far as finances are concerned, I understand that it is always about looking for a balance and making choices, but I am particularly concerned about the perseverance power that the Secretary of State may or may not have enough to fulfil his role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u112	We have a cabinet with a number of rulers who are responsible for their own area of responsibility, so do I. I don't have the absolute power. We live in a parliamentary democracy. That's a good thing, I'd say. I understand the point very well, but I cannot answer the question as such. I think I have enough resources for that. That will have to apply immediately on the basis of the argument. And I also hope that the Chamber, and certainly the members of this committee and the spokesmen on this subject, will understand, where appropriate, that on a subject which affects the Caribbean countries and islands in many facets, you are dealing with and coordinating the forces in a very good way. That's what I'm supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u113	My question is also about the new strong coordinating role of this Secretary of State. The government agreement also states that the other departments must come up with funding. In the written reply, the State Secretary states that the donors, or the organisations that contribute, are currently the Social Insurance Bank with 2.3 million euros and the Tax Office with 2.7 million euros. The Secretary of State indicated that the other departments still have to come. I have very specific questions about this. When does he expect that? And what exactly does he expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u114	The coalition agreement has actually been converted into a new budget in all departments by means of a letter of amendment. What will have to be done in the near future is that, if there are any bottlenecks in the countries, the islands, I will, of course, also report this to colleagues. Here too, we must pay attention to them in the specialist departments. For that is most of all: the realization that they are part of the Kingdom. In the case of the BES islands in particular, although they are at a great distance, they are part of our Dutch state system, and we are paying attention to this. I see that as an important task. So it is often not even intended to go wrong, but that is also because there is another way of looking at it. So that will also play an important role in the budget for the coming years. If I see these things there in the coming period and when I see that things are going wrong or that there is a need for tailor-made work, I can also tell colleagues. In view of the somewhat short period of time, not all departments have yet achieved this result in all kinds of concrete budgets. But where necessary, for example, with that UNICEF story we were talking about, this could happen in the years to come. I am therefore a sort of oil man, who then brings to the attention of the needs and represents the interests of the Kingdom in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u115	That's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's a great I give the Secretary of State many compliments today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u116	Then the Secretary of State must be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u117	No, I'm not. The Secretary of State isn't, you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u118	What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u119	We talked about it last time, remember, when I complimented you during the General Political Reviews. Anyway, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u120	Oh, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u121	...that won't be necessary, Mr. Chairman. Not as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u122	Oh, I can't joke at DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u123	No. Neither do I with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u124	Humor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u125	It's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u126	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u127	I'd be happy to, Mr. President, if I may. My point is that when the Secretary of State brings it to the attention of the various departments, it does not necessarily have to lead to results. I expect the Secretary of State to at least indicate an ambition. What is his goal in the coming period? He must not only be the oil man of quality and try to get attention to his points. What concrete results will this bring to the various departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u128	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u129	I fully understand, Mr President, that there have been only a few Councils of Ministers in the past period and that the Secretary of State may need a little longer time to make it clear. The question is: in what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u130	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u131	It has advantages and disadvantages that you quickly have your budget treatment. Indeed, I've been in office for less than two weeks. I've had a lot to do with the Kingdom. That's extremely interesting. I am really going to go on the road in the coming time to get what the needs are and how they look at the ambitions we have. I've just set out those ambitions. I also want to invest in the relationship. We also want to indicate where things are not going well and reward where things are going well. That whole palette will eventually have to lead to signals that will hopefully be translated into other departments in the course of 2018. But I cannot, of course, at the moment in any way indicate the extent of this, because I simply have not yet spoken to the representatives and the directors of the countries and islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u132	Last question, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u133	It is not necessary, Mr President, but I would like to make a point of order. I notice a certain irritation in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u134	Oh, stop making these kind of comments!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u135	I'm going to make a point of order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u136	Yes. It's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u137	You've been chairing a debate all day. I understand that you are tired, but I would ask you to have a normal debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u138	And I ask you to speak with respect to me. No, you're not getting the floor. And if anyone here is tired, it's you. I'd say go home and rest. Mrs. Van Tongeren. No, you're not getting the floor. No, you're not getting the floor. You're not getting the floor. I decide who gets to speak here. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the written reply of the Secretary of State, I received the answer that in the Dutch cities there are no problems with people from the islands who came this way because of the hurricane and that these people can register anywhere. I'd like to get a confirmation from the Secretary of State. As far as the graduation candidates are concerned, I was assured that there is no problem, but that is about being present at school. Does that also apply to the home situation? If you don't have running water at home, can't cook or have a roof over your head, it's nice to have your school open, but can you do your final exam well? So if that could be looked at by this or that department at any time, that would be worth a sweet thing to me. Then I come to my last question from the list of questions of my first term. I said that in the islands, costs have increased in many ways. We are still discussing what is an acceptable social minimum. With us, the economy is attracted. Translates that into it as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mrs. Van Tongeren!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u141	...that the so-called free allowance goes up? This is exactly what was in my first term. This question has not been answered in writing, so I am now asking the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u142	Yes, but it must be really short, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u143	On that last point, of the free allowance, I indicated that it would be viewed more generally. So if the board is in good shape, then there is also room to talk about that. That is what I want to say about this. As far as housing is concerned, you have received a written reply and I would like to point out that it is equally appropriate for me to have a certain portfolio as a ruler and that I am not supposed to make all kinds of statements outside that portfolio. That's different as a Member of Parliament. This means that you can raise this point with the Home Affairs budget where the Minister is also present. You also had a question about education. Here too, I am very practical. If you have concrete examples of bottlenecks, I think it would be a good idea to report them. It can have considerable impact if people are unable to prepare properly. I think we should really try to come up with practical solutions where possible, which should not even be very difficult, to solve these problems and then on the basis of concrete examples. The open posture is absolutely there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u144	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u145	Then I get to the point of housing. Either the Secretary of State directs my questions to the govern ment in question or I will have to do so in writing, because I am not a spokesman for the other budget. I did get those signals. So it's gonna be a set of written questions. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u147	A remaining question from my first term on a commitment from your predecessor Mrs Klijnsma on the social minimum of existence. She's committed an investigation to the First Chamber. I asked what the situation is and when we can expect it. Could I perhaps have a second-term reaction, and if it does not work so quickly perhaps a written response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u148	I suggest that we give a written response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u149	Yeah, I'm fine. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u150	Thank you for your answer on education, pre-school and early school education, and technical vocational guidance. Could you perhaps coordinate that we get these questions for the treatment of the Education budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u151	That we get the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u152	The answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u153	Okay, I'd like to say that, but this is also about the portfolio of the colleague from Education. So I'll pass on your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u154	Then I have one more question in response to written questions. It's about the dates we asked about the child registration and the regular registration. You say that research has already been promised by UNICEF. That's quantitative research. But they can only do qualitative research when the data is in order and they are not in order. So it's very difficult to do quality research. I would also like a more concrete answer on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u155	I'll see if I can do that in second term. If that doesn't work, I'll do it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u156	I hear the Secretary of State talking about the structural discussion. His terminology gave me a flashback to a minister of his, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mr Donner. It also did not need a great deal of vision with regard to the Kingdom. And what do I hear? Exactly the same term. That was also the period when Mr Van Raak and I thought: then we come up with a view ourselves. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with me that it's pinching and sanding in the Kingdom? He agrees with me that we feel trapped, but that the countries also feel trapped and that there is discussion and irritation about it every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u157	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u158	Shouldn't we talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u159	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u160	I understand very well what Mr Bosman is saying. It is also really a fundamental point that you do not discuss in a few minutes. I am afraid that we are not entirely on the same page, but I am in favour of the practical solutions. That's right. If you are going to have that discussion at the moment, given the situation that may be more difficult than when you started that discussion at the time, it is the question where that will lead. Or that's not gonna lead down some kind of circle that doesn't pay off for anyone except a lot of frustration. My real ambition in the coming years is to reward those who run well, who set a good example and help those who are left behind to get the situation on a higher footing. We have some resources and progress has been made in certain areas. It's not all trouble and torment, but you can see quite big differences. Mr Bosman also knows that structural discussions are relevant and not relevant and that you can have them in all kinds of policy areas, but that they are never the solution. It's a lot more than that, especially here. It's about culture, about attitude, about whether you want to make something of it. I fear that a discussion about structure, which I can still understand, will not lead to improvement but rather to some kind of confusion and standstill. Given the great challenges that lie ahead, it would not be my ambition to go down that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u161	We do not agree, but I support the Secretary of State in his ambition to address it pragmatically and help where necessary. But sometimes the Statute stands in the way of pragmatic solutions, because then you have no right to, responsibility for or obligation. That's the problem. I do not want to say that the structure has to be different, but perhaps we should name it, or at least talk about it, that the structure is as it is, that it pinches where it pinches and rubs where it sheds. We have to say it's the way it is. If we want it to be different, if countries want it to be different and the Netherlands wants it to be different, then we have to have a story. That's my appeal to the Secretary of State. Again, I absolutely support his ambition to make things better for the Kingdom pragmatically and hand-to-hand with the team, but there are also some things that are not quite working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u162	This is a bit of an uneven playing field. Mr Bosman has had many years of experience in this field. I am new in this area, so I will have to build up some of that experience. Mr Bosman can assume that I will name everything. I'm not avoiding anything, I'm not arguing with anyone. If it's not okay, I'll name it. Here, but also with the people I speak to. I hope, however, that this attitude will lead others to see that we have to come up with practical solutions and that the need to talk about this structural discussion will be reduced. I don't rule out changing things in the long run. I just don't want to start with that in my priority statement, because I don't think it's appropriate at the moment. But if multiple parties share the same view that things can be different and better, then you should definitely do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u163	Thank you. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you for this wonderful answer. At least it was a better answer than Minister Donner gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers given, both in writing and orally, although the written answers somewhat caught me off guard, because they came rather shortly before the debate. If you're doing other things and you're running a program here in the Chamber all day, that's pretty surprising. Budgets do not have to be marathon debates, not even in the coming weeks, but I just want to warn you that we should not make usain bolt-like states either. We should not, because the cabinet formation has lasted so long, pass all these budgetary laws through the Chamber jackets. But okay, having said that, Mr President, I understand that we did not come together today in terms of positions, also in view of the situation in Saint Martin, which I spoke about yesterday from the PVV, I think, very nuanced. However, I am going to ask the Chamber for a number of statements. I have three motions, but before I make those if yet another answer and ask the Secretary of State for my part about Bonaire. The Public Authorities Act for the BES Islands, the WolBES, does not need to be amended to solve the question I have asked. It is a question of the neglect I have seen in the management of infrastructure and other vital infrastructure. It is therefore certainly possible to assign more powers to the deputy and the authority. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to invest heavily in the vital infrastructure of Bonaire, in particular the road network;]] [[noting that decisions on these investments have been taking far too long and need to be speeded up;]] [[calls on the Government to temporarily transfer some of the responsibilities of the island council to Bonaire's authority so that its plan to invest in the road network can be implemented quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u167	And then there are two other motions which relate, among other things, to the Charter and the duty of care. They're well-known motions, but I still want to file them again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the citizens of the Netherlands should be able to decide on their own future;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the citizens of the Netherlands are free to decide independently whether they wish to maintain links with the former Antilles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the three overseas countries of the Kingdom are characterised by deep and fundamental corruption and crime;]] [[whereas, despite the Dutch taxpayer's contribution for decades, corruption and crime have not been reduced or have hardly been reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to place the interests of the Dutch people in front of those of the residents of the other independent countries in the Kingdom and to break ties as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u168	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the answers from the Secretary of State. After two weeks, it is impressive to have a budget debate and then stand here and give serious answers. Respect for that. A large part of my input was about Saint Martin. Why? Because we as VVD are very concerned about that. And we're not alone. A lot of people with me, also on St.Maarten, are worried about what is going to happen, even in the short term and for the future. I made a big point about the election, and I will continue to do so. It's not just the head of the polling station that's worried. I understand that there is now also a majority in the States to say: let's stop the elections, because we have to get to work; we have to get to the team and distract those elections from what we have to do. So these concerns are great. Mrs Kuik mentioned a motion, but we all know that we cannot order the National Council of Ministers. This is an autonomous institution within the Kingdom. So I can only give my concerns to this Secretary of State. And then he's gonna have to see what he's doing on that Reichsminister's Council. The concerns are great and are shared by many, not only here, but also on Saint Martin. I still have a few more questions. We've had a discussion about the Coast Guard. Money was supposed to go from the Home Office to the Department of Defense. Does the Secretary of State have any idea that the money earmarked for the Coast Guard actually went to the DOD? Another point for Sint-Maarten concerns the general measure of government regarding the prison, which will expire next year. We need to be there in time to start the debate on the extension in good time. I understand they don't have time to do anything about that prison this time. In fact, we find that prison is almost empty, because the prisoners have gone to Curaçao and the Netherlands. It is therefore all the more important that the general measure of government regarding prison should be maintained and perhaps extended. That's why I'm worried and my question to the Secretary of State. Then the money from the Red Cross. In the Netherlands money has been raised for Sint-Maarten by the Red Cross. The question is: how is that money spent? Is this also via the Netherlands or did the 13 million via the Red Cross Netherlands go to the Red Cross Sint-Maarten and is it spent there? Is there any surveillance on that? Is that under control? Have you done the right thing? Again, 13 million is certainly a lot of money on Saint Martin. I am extremely pleased with the structural discussion that the Secretary of State has just had. He has my support for the pragmatic solution. Having a conversation is always the starting point. I can't impose anything on you. That has just been made clear. We are in one kingdom together, and we have a shared responsibility. We can't just step out one-sidedly. That means we have to talk about it with respect. Where there are opportunities, we must improve or change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u169	Brief question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u170	In my opinion, the Red Cross is simply a private organisation that complies with anbi-schemes. That's not what this Secretary of State is about. Does the VVD want some kind of state control of NGO expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u171	I just asked if the money that's going to be spent on Saint Martin ends up in the right place. I think it's very wise that we all agree that the money will end up in the right place. I think that's a legitimate question. If the Secretary of State says he doesn't want to or he can't, I can understand that. But I think it is wise that we should make a serious comment on this. I think I have every right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u172	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u173	I think it's up to the Red Cross donors to ask how that money is being spent. And again my question: does the VVD group think that there should be supervision by the Dutch government of the exact spending of charities in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u174	No, Mr. Chairman. It's about the Red Cross on Saint Martin. I can imagine that in an environment where we say things are wrong, we'll see how we can do that. I believe that we are talking about a co-ordinated reconstruction organisation and that it would be a pity if all kinds of different initiatives were to go together. I think it would be wise to link our coordination with each other, and that has nothing to do with control and scrutiny. I just want the money to end up in the right place, and I think that's a very legitimate question. There are all kinds of questions being asked here in the Chamber and you do not want to know what kind of questions are being asked, which I say are we going to do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Bosman. You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u176	No, I wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u177	Please continue. No, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u178	This is a budget debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u179	Yes, it is a budget debate, but that does not mean endless debate. You asked your question and I think Mr Bosman answered it. I suggest he move on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u180	Okay. The islands of Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius must not be forgotten, especially after the disaster that took place on Saba and Saint Eustatius. Thanks also for the efforts of the Secretary of State and his team to do as much as possible, because the ports, especially those on Saba but also on Statia, are licelines for the people there. That's where the stuff comes in, and that's why we need to get it right. At all possible speed, things need to be improved there, because the sooner that kind of infrastructure is in order, the sooner ordinary life can start again and the sooner people can do business there and generate their own income. We talked about social housing on Bonaire. Thank you for the written answers. But I repeat again: it is really a matter of concern. So I hope the Secretary of State will also look at the situation on Bonaire with his own eyes. I have seen it for seven years and every year it is a disappointment that it has not improved. And again, the ambition on the island is there. The intention of the drivers is good, because they all want to pull it very hard. But there are always all kinds of financial difficulties that hinder it and then you have to ask yourself whether we can do that a little more conveniently. So much for my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u181	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u182	My motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the Caribbean region to build hurricane-resistant and sustainable buildings;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the countries and the BES Islands, to take initiatives to promote sustainable construction and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch energy saving subsidies are not available to the residents of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba in their own homes or social housing;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how arrangements for the same purpose can be implemented for the BES Islands and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the role of women is important for the public administration of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom and the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the relevant authorities, to promote the social and administrative participation of women;]] [[calls on the Government to develop and support training for female top talent in close consultation with the relevant authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Secretary of State once again, also for understanding sustainability. But I do have a small addition: sustainability goes far beyond where the energy comes from. Especially for a very warm country: the more isolated the houses are, the less energy is consumed for air conditioning, for example. This costs a little more at the beginning, but over the entire lifetime of the houses it saves bins with money, a lot of energy and therefore also CO emissions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u184	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the very clear words. I would also like to thank him for expressing on all sides that he wants to achieve a better future for the islands. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank him for the clarity of the conditions he wishes to make, even if the agreements were made with a missionary cabinet of Saint Martin. Then I have two motions. The first motion is supported by Mrs. Diertens, Mr. Bosman, Mrs. Van der Graaf and Mrs. Kuik. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the BES Islands cannot provide for their own food production;]] [[Whereas the BES islands with an adequate agricultural and horticultural policy are less dependent on costly food imports;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the BES Islands and Wageningen University, to explore and support the possibilities for an innovative agricultural and horticultural policy so that the islands can provide their own food production as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van den Berg, Diertens, Bosman, Van der Graaf, Kuiken and Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u186	By the way, I have to report that I forgot to mention Mr. Van Raak. He also supports this motion. The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, given the small scale and low capacity available, it is difficult to ensure the sustainable quality of governance in the BES islands and the associated administrative organisation;]] [[Whereas the exchange of knowledge is essential for this purpose;]] [[Whereas training programmes for young officials are an important investment in the quality of the administrative organisation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the BES Islands, to make proposals to implement trainee programmes for civil servants, with the possibility of an exchange with the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van den Berg, Diertens, Bosman, Van der Graaf, Van Tongeren, Kuiken and Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u187	At such a first debate with a new Secretary of State, you ask yourself: do I have a little faith in it? And yes, Mr. Chairman, I have a little faith in it. A hell of a job this Secretary of State is facing with the reconstruction of St.Maarten. There are developments on the island now. Many Statesmen say: should we hold elections? Many members of the United States are wondering: can we make a government of national unity? Can we create a government of experts who will work with the Netherlands? I hope it's gonna happen. But we must keep a close watch on reconstruction, on the criminals of the underworld, but also on the thugs of the upper world, on the thieves of there and on the thugs of here. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[requests that, in the reconstruction of St Maarten, no contracts be awarded to KPMG,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u188	Let's not forget Saba and Statia. The people affected there, especially those on low incomes, are currently in a very difficult situation. Whatever happens on Saint Martin, Saba and Statia are ours, belong to us. That's where we can start right now. I now hear from the Secretary of State that these plans are not quite ready either. That's not good. They have to be ready, and that's just got to start now. That should not happen with ships that have to pass St.Maarten first, it simply has to go to the island itself. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to pay extra attention to people living on low incomes in the reconstruction of Saba and Statia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u189	Let's talk about the previous motion. In the context of the text before it, this motion gives a value assessment of one company. I find that very difficult. I don't think we should do that in this room. I fully understand Mr Van Raak and his concerns, but I think it would be unwise for us, as a Parliament, to treat companies like this in this way. Unless we can actually sue people and bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u190	That investigation is ongoing. We have made this research possible together. When it comes to the Mafia, Corallo, you can see that KPMG does the books. If in Italy Corallo politicians around Berlusconi are bribed, this goes through Dutch banks. When you see things go wrong in companies, public companies, on Curaçao and St.Maarten you see that KPMG runs those companies. If you see that the illegal gambling industry is made possible all over the world by the Curaçao telephony company, that happened via KPMG. Mr Bosman may have a different opinion, but I call that 'criminal behavior'. And criminal behavior must be combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you. That was not quite Mr Bosman's approach, but that is all right. I will now go to Mrs. Diertens, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u192	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hear that this Secretary of State wishes to make an effort to improve relations within the Kingdom. The statement by the Secretary of State "more and less for islands" appealed to me greatly. All trust. As far as the reconstruction fund is concerned, I hope that it will be effective as soon as possible, so that people can get a roof over their heads and get back to work to build their lives. That seems to me to be the most important thing at the moment. It's gonna take our help. The terms are clear. I am looking forward to the update that the Secretary of State will shortly send us on the possibility of holding elections and the question of which governments to agree with. During my first term, I mentioned a number of themes: improving cooperation and all confidence in the economy, sustainability, children's rights and education. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is committed to these issues. Finally, I wish the Secretary of State every success in carrying out his duties. I hope that he will coordinate the policy properly so that it does not become fragmented. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that from the departmental responsibilities several directors are responsible for the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Spies Committee's report concludes that the approach towards the Caribbean Netherlands is too fragmented and that there is insufficient comprehensive approach;]] [[Whereas the ruler in charge of Kingdom relations has an understanding of the needs and wishes of the Caribbean Netherlands regarding regulation and at the same time has an insight into what laws and regulations are needed;]] [[Whereas a stronger coordinating role for the ruler in charge of Kingdom relations ensures better alignment in the area of law and regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that departments engage the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations in planning and budgeting with regard to the Caribbean Netherlands, so that this Ministry can play its directing role, adopt a more comprehensive approach and combat fragmentation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Diertens, Bosman, Van Tongeren, Van den Berg, Bishop, Chicken, Van Raak, Van der Graaf and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u193	I'm going to see Mrs. Chicken, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u194	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his commitments. A number of motions have also been tabled on behalf of our party. I share the concerns expressed by the Secretary of State, but also by other parties, about the elections in Saint Martin. I hope they will act wisely. We will be informed of this very soon. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has started swirling. I hope that will be experienced in the islands as well. Therefore, in this case, I want to end with a piece of Bonaire's national anthem: "No strength can take away this love, as we feel for our island, even though it is small and not perfect, we love it above all else." I think that is the right approach: to love family, but also to be critical of each other. That's gonna be my start in this kingdom, too. I look forward to working together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I will go to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Chairman. I didn't go home yet, because first I wanted to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and because I wanted to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement states: "The cabinet is prepared to invest extra in the islands, provided that good governance and financial accountability are secured at an adequate level';]] [[noted the problems in the Caribbean Netherlands, including child poverty, educational disadvantages and rising food prices;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[develop additional investments in the Caribbean Netherlands on the basis of at least an analysis of the needs of the islands;]] [[linking investment to a concrete timetable;]] [[develop the conditions for investment;]] [[consider how the government can assist in achieving these conditions,]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible, but no later than before the Spring 2018 note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, over the year of implementation, departments transfer budgets to the budget of Kingdom relations and that the contributions of the departments for 2018 are therefore not yet visible in the 2018 budget;]] [[noting that this uncertainty about the money to be received could make good and planned governance in the Caribbean Netherlands more difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways in which contributions from departments to the budget of Kingdom relations can be made more easily understandable, preferably already in the budgets,]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u197	Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State has been working for two weeks. I wish him every success and wisdom in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u198	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf. She did not participate in the first term due to personal circumstances, but she would like to table one motion in the second term. I'll see if the Chamber has any objection. I understand it's not a problem. Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u199	Thank you, Madam President and colleagues, for giving me the opportunity to table a motion here tonight. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, whom I congratulate wholeheartedly. I look forward to working together. Thank you for your answers to the questions on children's rights tabled yesterday by Mr Van den Berg. I think it is appropriate to include this point in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the position of children on Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba requires permanent attention;]] [[Whereas the funds provided for this purpose were provided for by the Van Laar/Segers amendment of 1 October 2014 (34000-IV, No. 9) are last available this year;]] [[Whereas policies to improve the position of children and children's rights should be permanently anchored in public bodies and local organisations by providing technical assistance and capacity building;]] [[calls on the Government to do so. similar efforts to continue to improve the position of children on Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba and to inform the Chamber of Spring 2018 on the basis of the evaluation of how it will do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Graaf, Bosman, Van den Berg, Diertens, Bishop, Chicken, Van Raak, Van Tongeren and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-IV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u200	Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Kuzu has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u201	I have one short question. I wholeheartedly co-signed the motion. We have also tabled an amendment. Can we also count on the support of the Christian Union for this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u202	Thank you for that question. I will take the amendment with me in the group and we will discuss it in the recital. I think the votes on the amendments are a little later in the year. Then we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u203	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term from the Chamber. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u204	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Members for their input, but also especially for the confidence I have felt. That creates obligations, as I fully realize, but I like to deal with them. As I indicated earlier, I would like to hang out with you in the near future. I have been asked a number of questions in the second term. Mr Bosman has asked if I could make a ruling on extending the general measure of state administration for Saint Martin in relation to prisons. A valid point, but Mr Bosman will be able to imagine that we are mainly working on other things at the moment. I'll take this point with me. We're gonna talk about this later. I will, of course, take this further. I'll let you know. Then there is Mr Bosman's question about the money of the Red Cross. How's that going to be spent? There has already been a brief debate on this subject. The public action after Hurricane Irma has already yielded almost 18 million euros. That is more than the 13 million previously mentioned. The Red Cross is indeed a self-employed organisation that owns it. There's no public money in that either. Of course, we are coordinating on the ground with the Red Cross, but that is all on a voluntary basis. They also use our logistics and defence capabilities. In this way coordination takes place, but they themselves are responsible for the use of these funds. Then there's the question of transferring budgets for the Interior Coast Guard to Defense. Mr Bosman is well aware that in a previous life I was firmly in favour of these tasks being transferred, so I am now going to do so completely loyally, as you know me. That goes through a letter of amendment. In principle, this will run from 1 January 2018. There are still some agreements to be made on this. Coast Guard building is badly damaged. There's still some transfer to be arranged. In combination with the additional 10 million set aside for the Coast Guard under the government agreement, this should be sufficient for a coastguard that is fully operational and operational again. Then there is Mrs Diertens' question about the fact that quality research is difficult without quantitative data. In general, you could put it that way, but UNICEF can also do research without those quantitative data. That's because they're used to it. They are used to doing qualitative research in this region, where quantitative data are often lacking. I now want to have this so-called situational analysis carried out in the Caribbean Netherlands. I will continue to inform you about this in the first quarter of 2018. Then the question of Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks how much money is now available for the Team Combat Undermining. It was outside the microphone, but Mr Van Raak had the right answer: four times 12 million until 2021. In the budget this has been added to the series for the regular deployment of the detective capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u206	I'm incredibly happy about that. I asked my question because somewhere in the budget I found cash slides and reserves for currency decline. But if this is the amount that is actually available and if there is no negative cash slip in it because of a deficit at the end of the year or something with currency amounts that brings it down, then I am just as satisfied as Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u207	Well, then I can make you happy. I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 9 members of De Graaf and Wilders, in which they ask the government to temporarily transfer a number of powers to Bonaire's authority so that he can make investments in the road network. I understand that moral support for the authority to do exactly the things in the line, as I said earlier, that things need to be done that are necessary. However, I believe that this motion calls for the transfer of powers and, as a result, puts everything in motion in terms of structure. Each has its own role. I wouldn't want to get into that right now. I can promise Mr De Graaf that I will be happy to discuss this when I visit Bonaire. Then I can also hear how this goes in practice. If there's anything we can do, I'd like to act on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u208	In any case, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u209	What about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u210	Excuse me, I almost forgot to tell you. Then I can hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u211	At the request of Mr De Graaf, I propose his motion (34775-IV, No. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u212	Then there is the motion which, if I understand correctly, comes back regularly. In the motion in part No. 10 by Mr De Graaf, the government is invited to ensure that the citizens of the Netherlands are also free to decide independently whether to maintain ties with the former Antilles. It won't be surprising that I would also like to discourage that motion. I indicated earlier in my term that international law would not allow a unilateral exit by the Netherlands as an old colonialist. Then the motion to part No. Mr De Graaf asked the government to place the interests of the Dutch people before those of the residents of the other independent countries in the Kingdom and to break the ties as quickly as possible. If you have listened carefully to my speech, you have heard that I am in favour of tightening these ties and operating on the basis of equivalence. As far as I am concerned, the inhabitants of the Caribbean countries are all Dutch. I'm not gonna do that, so I'd like to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 12, in which Mrs Van Tongeren invites the government to take initiatives together with the countries and the BES Islands to promote sustainable construction and inform the Chamber. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that hurricane-resistant building in reconstruction as much as possible is the starting point, you cannot use it as a rule, and we do not want to do so, and that we also use sustainable solutions as much as possible, then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mrs Van Tongeren, in which the government is asked to examine how arrangements can be implemented for the same purpose for the BES islands and to inform the Chamber of the House of the matter. If this motion will have budgetary consequences, I must, unfortunately, advise against it. When it comes to exploring the possibilities, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. I would like to hear from Mrs Van Tongeren whether I can read the motion in such a way that it is a reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u213	Of course, they are simply municipalities with Dutch people, but the motion already states "investigations." Money doesn't have to be spent immediately, but it has to be looked at how that could be done so that you end up with something similar to what Dutch people in the Netherlands have. That is, of course, my wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u214	I understand that, but of course Mrs Van Tongeren is not simply tabling the motion. It also has a certain purpose. I'm very practical, as I just said. If the objective is research, then I would like to commit to it without raising any expectations. Then motion to part No. 14, also from Mrs Van Tongeren, who is invited to develop and support training courses for female top talent in close consultation with the relevant authorities. I was a little surprised at that motion, given the debate we had just had on this subject, in which I said that I liked it very much that there were many women at those last training sessions, but she herself indicated that it was a good mix. That would be my idea, too. So I have some difficulty with this motion, because I think we are already doing exactly what is written here. We encourage women to participate, but we also think it is important that men and women participate in these trainings. So I think she's really superfluous, and that's why I have to dissuade her. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's motion on item No. 15 on the agricultural initiatives, in which the government is invited, in consultation with the BES Islands and Wageningen University, to examine the possibilities for agricultural and horticultural policy so that the islands can provide their own food production as much as possible. That's an interesting motion. I have already indicated this in the debate. I would like to stress once again that it is not just research. Something has to be done, because I think there is a need for it. It should also not be limited the WUR, so that others can play a role in it. I don't have any names yet, but I wouldn't want to limit it to the WUR. If Mrs Van den Berg is the first to accept this, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u215	Mr President, that is fine. We will amend the text accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u216	Okay. Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mrs Van den Berg on the training programme, in which the government is invited to make proposals in consultation with the BES islands to implement training programmes for civil servants, including the possibility of an internship in the Netherlands. I agree with the thrust of that motion, because I really think it is important what is happening there. I would like to add that I believe that it should be customised, so we should not lay down a blueprint for how to do it. I'm also gonna go on my trip and talk to drivers about what good tools are. That could be different in one place than on the other. So if I can read her in such a way that it is a hand-out, a direction, but that there should not always be an internship in the Netherlands as part of that program, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Van Raak of the SP, who does not want to award a contract to a particular company. I welcome the motion in that sense that I fully subscribe to Mr Van Raak's thinking, which he has already understood, when it comes to ensuring that everyone has to comply with the rules and that companies that can be found not to comply with them and are condemned should not be rewarded. At the same time, I have a problem with it, and I would like to join Mr Bosman in mentioning the names of companies here, especially if there are still investigations going on. So for that reason, I have to discourage the motion. Once again, I can very well follow the thinking behind it. Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mr Van Raak, together with Mrs Kuik, asking for extra attention to be paid to people living on low incomes. That sounds very sympathetic. I have just said in the debate that we are naturally looking at the most vulnerable. They are not always low-income people, but they often have a problem when such a disaster occurs. I think the motion is a little too one-sided. So if it is not just about income, but about the most vulnerable, if Mr Van Raak would like to amend that in the operative part, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u217	Mr Van Raak has until Tuesday, but he can also respond now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u218	Of course, the most vulnerable. But they're almost by definition low-income people. I know very few people who are very vulnerable and who are multimillionaires. I'd like to change that. But the point is that the people who have to live with very little money are very badly affected and deserve special attention on the islands, because they are already having a hard time there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u219	I have simply stated in my speech that this is important to me. I'm just a little reluctant, 'cause before you know it, everybody's gonna ride their own stickhorses. Then everything is important and with that everyone is equally important and there is no priority. I have focused in particular on these socio-economic elements. This is part of it. Just to highlight this one, there's my restraint. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 19 by Mrs. Diertens and almost the entire Chamber. Well, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'd say there's a nice assignment for me to fill that out. I see it as a support in the back. Then the motion to part No. 20 by Mr Kuzu, inviting the government to work out a number of things. I won't mention them all again. The point is that this year is a special year, which gives rise to the situation that things are no longer on the specialist budgets, with the government agreement, with notes of amendment. My ambition is to have an insight into the respective budgets of the departments in the coming years. Those amounts will remain there as well. If it's okay, it's gonna work itself out next year. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 21, which also deals with: "see how departments' contributions to the budget of Kingdom relations can be made more transparent." It was just this year that it wasn't clear. I assume that this will be the case in the coming years. It will not be the case that contributions intended for the people there will be included in the budget of Kingdom relations. They remain, to some extent at least, on the specialist budgets. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u220	In our budgetary cycle, we still have a moment when adjustments can be made, and that is in the spring note. In the motion in part No. 20 we also ask the government to inform the Chamber before the Spring Note. I understand this Secretary of State has only been working for two weeks, but we're just giving room to the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u221	I have understood Mr Kuzu's message very well, so I would also like to make a commitment here. Of course, it could be done with the Spring Paper, but it can also be done with the 2019 budget. I'm still having trouble keeping the operative part. This is without prejudice to the fact that I have taken the message which he has also brought to the debate to heart. Then I'm going to move to part number one. 22 by Mrs Van der Graaf on children's rights. I've already indicated that I'd like to await the evaluation. In that respect, I fully agree with the motion. It is very important, especially for young children, to continue to pay attention to this. That's one of those vulnerable groups. I want to inform the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018. I have already promised this in response to Mr Kuzu. Finally, there was an amendment tabled by Mr Kuzu. In fact, I have already commented on this in the debate. It's actually in the same line as the last motion. That is why I leave Mrs Van der Graaf's motion for a resolution to the House and Mr Kuzu's amendment, because he wants to add it now, while I would first like to await the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u222	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-11.u223	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the authorised ministers of Aruba and Sint-Maarten and their staff, the MPs, the staff and the people who have followed this debate through the Internet or any other medium. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
