ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It seems to be a weekly question on aviation, but there is also a lot going on in aviation. Schiphol is one of the most important economic engines in the Netherlands. That is what we see when we look at employment: 65,000 jobs directly at the airport and 290,000 jobs associated with it. There are 322 destinations worldwide. The world is within our reach. Schiphol is not only of economic importance. I think that every one of us in this room has been to Schiphol for a business trip, a flight holiday or just to pick up friends or family. That's good. We are all proud of Schiphol. However, we all see that the crowds are increasing. Everyone who has been at Schiphol Airport in recent years has experienced, at passport control or elsewhere, that people have to stand in line for a long time, with all the irritations of that. This is not only the traveller's experience, the KLM has also sounded the alarm clock in the newspaper last weekend. The KLM would have sent a letter of fire to Schiphol Airport stating that the operational problems are not under control and that it cannot be guaranteed that we will not all be in that line and face this chaos. My questions to the Secretary of State are therefore the following. Is she familiar with this signal? Did she receive KLM's letter of fire? Are there any other airlines that recognise these operational problems? This is not only about the passport or baggage check, but also about the use of taxi lanes. It is also about the use of the luggage system. There are many things the KLM says are not going well. Then there is the question: how is this possible? How is it that Schiphol first took into account a growth rate of 6 while the airport now assumes 17? That has all kinds of consequences. Yesterday, a temporary hall was opened with an additional cost of 45 million. There are also substantial investments in the role. Does the Secretary of State recognize the criticism of the KLM that this is because Schiphol would have given away the space we gave him too quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Visser is right, it is indeed very busy at Schiphol Airport. It is also true that a lot is happening in the aviation world. There are three reasons for the increasing pressure: the number of aircraft that are increasing and therefore more passengers that can be transported, the scarcity of air traffic, we have agreed that 500,000 flights may take place until 2020, leading to airlines wanting to secure new flights, and we also see that by attracting the economy more people feel the space to travel. That doesn't mean nothing's going to happen. I was at Schiphol Airport last night. There I was allowed to open a temporary new departure hall. For example, it will open six new security lanes. The temporary hall will be replaced by a final one in 2023. We can see they're investing in a new pier. It will be ready in 2019 and will be connected with a corridor to the current B-pier. During my period, we raised 250 million in investments in Schiphol station in order to improve the accessibility of the airport on a land-based basis. There are also investments in two other cases, e.g. in e-gates. 17% of growth at Schiphol Airport takes place within the Schengen area. If you can increase the handling of passengers via e-gates, the pressure decreases. You should know that there will be six new e-gates tomorrow, 12 at the end of April and 12 at the end of June. Then in early July Schiphol has the record number of 78 e-gates versus 48 now. That's how fast it is. In the meantime, additional capacity has also been released for the KMar from V and J and Defense. In addition, 135 FTEs will be deployed at airports by June this year at the latest. As you know, there is also, of course, structural consultation on how we can ensure this for the future. So in short: yes, it is very busy and yes, we must do everything we can to ensure that the crowds are properly absorbed. I have outlined to you what measures are currently visible there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thanks to the Secretary of State for her answer, but I'm a little upset about it. Schiphol is also our business card. If you enter the Netherlands by air and first have to wait three hours before you walk out of Schiphol, that is not a pleasant first acquaintance. We would also like to be able to stay proud of Schiphol. I hear the Secretary of State mention a number of things. Fine, those e-gates. Keep doing that, too. KLM doesn't pull the emergency brake for nothing, however. It is said that if we continue like this, we will have a hot summer, we will have long queues and we will not be able to guarantee that there will be no delays. I don't have to tell the Secretary of State what kind of chaotic situation will arise. My question is whether the Secretary of State recognizes this signal. Does she consider the current plans for e-gates and what more they are sufficient or should more be done? And then the second question is how can we have to adjust the growth rate in such a short period of time. That is fine, that economic growth, but it means that we are now investing 45 million in a temporary hall. That's a big part of the result of Schiphol. We also know that we must invest heavily in the coming period. My question is very specific: is the investment agenda of Schiphol sufficiently adapted to the numbers that we are now taking into account? Another important point is that we have agreed with each other, and I shall translate it simply: flights that strengthen the economy are ahead of flights that have more to do with fun flights. That is the so-called selectivity policy. There's a lot of discussion about that. The KLM, in particular, is now critical of this. Can the Secretary of State respond to that criticism? How has selectivity policy been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	A few things. I recognize the signal, because I got the letter from KLM. We have also agreed in this Chamber on the maximum growth rate for the coming years. Moreover, I have to say that the VVD Group has always said that it was a pity that this ceiling was there. So somewhere there's a limit for the coming time. What is going on is that this limit has been reached earlier than expected. I have just mentioned a number of reasons for this. I am, of course, aware of the debate on selectivity policy. We need to establish a few things about this. First of all, the Dutch government has decided that it can make the best contribution to this by developing Lelystad airport. If you want to be able to organise a full selectivity policy, you must literally offer airlines an excuse in the region. All of this has been invested in Europe. I have to say that I, as you might say, have been the first to work on a traffic distribution measure that you can also control. It is now almost ready and still needs to be notified at European level, as it is called so chic. Finally, although the Minister of Finance is a shareholder of Schiphol, we do not run the company here. It is ultimately up to Schiphol itself to get the volume button... how quickly do you allow flights? (b) to be managed by the competent For our part, I note that we are doing everything we can to support this growth, whether through infrastructure or security. However, the button of how much is flown at what time is not managed from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	This does not satisfy me. I understand the Secretary of State says we shouldn't sit on the chair of Schiphol, but we've agreed on a number of things here. We are talking about the maximum number of flights, but we have also agreed on a selectivity policy. My simple question to the Secretary of State was how she felt about the way it went over the past year. My simple question to the Secretary of State was whether Schiphol's investment agenda for the coming period is sufficiently suited to the growth we are expecting. Those are things we need to talk about here. I find it a little too easy from the Secretary of State that she only refers to investments we make in the station of Schiphol. These are relevant questions about the growth of our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	Then we do have a difference of opinion, because I find it a little too easy to put it that way. We made agreements in the Chamber until 2020. We have also noted that the global growth of aviation requires far-reaching scenarios. That will indeed require further investment. That is also a political consideration. A outgoing cabinet cannot do this further, on top of all the investments that are already there. I would like to, but then perhaps Mrs Visser should discuss with a number of groups that are now being negotiated whether they think that is a good idea. Then we just have to take steps now. In other words, yes, there has been considerable investment in accessibility, in a new pier and even in a temporary departure hall to absorb the extra growth. Yes, selectivity policy is being developed. No, that's not a question of being able to enforce it very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	Clear; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	This is week number 2 that I watch a bit surprised while the VVD raises a subject for which she herself had full responsibility in the previous cabinet period. D66 has had several talks with the cabinet on this subject, for example on whether it was necessary to attract more military officials to prevent everyone from going on vacation even more stressful, sighing and supportive. For some people, it's so stressful. I support the Secretary of State's argument. I only have an additional question, which is related to the marechaussee and the observation that there are quite a lot of people who need to get drunk completely before they go on vacation or when they come back from vacation. This leads to quite a nuisance for the staff who have to work with it. My specific question is whether the cabinet has previously considered the extent to which the military has enough hours to enforce before deciding to get on a plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	There is indeed, partly from the Chamber but also because the Cabinet sees the need for it, an additional investment in the military sector has already been made. Defence colleagues and V and J have released 17 million to have 135 FTE available before the summer. For all kinds of reasons, this discussion has not ended. For the long term too, you must of course also deal with this question. In part, this is independent of the question of whether there are all kinds of types that do not know how to behave. Unfortunately, the security issue is wider than that. If this were the only problem we have to deal with, it would be clear. I say to Mrs Belhaj: we have already taken a big step. It may well be that steps are being taken again. The question is whether a next cabinet will do so or whether it will do so earlier. The discussion on this should initially be at home with the departments of Defense and V and J, because these are the home departments for the KMar. I'm not saying that to get rid of it, because I like to get involved from the sidelines, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	It's a good thing we're investing in Schiphol. We've heard about the e-gates. We have a new terminal and we will have 135 FTE's extra at the Royal Marechaussee. But what I don't hear is what's going to happen to the staff at Schiphol. The main problem at Schiphol is the flexibility of the labour market. Thousands of employees at Schiphol Airport are involved. The business card of Schiphol are also the security guards, the cleaners and the luggage workers. Last week, agreements were made to give luggage and check-in staff more permanent contracts. I ask the Secretary of State what she is going to do, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, to restore the standard of fixed contracts to Schiphol with regard to security and job security. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	It's not like I can force that in my position. I have seen the reports about all those employees at Schiphol Airport who have temporary contracts and who are wondering when they will finally get a permanent contract. This can help to provide long-term security, including for absorbing crowds. Of course, these are all matters that play a role. We look very closely at the aviation sector. What does all these temporary contracts mean, not only at Schiphol Airport, but also at the airlines, for the feelings of the people who work there? It is an important point, and I agree with Mr Laçin. But it is also true that in this polder society this can and must be largely at the negotiating table by the unions and the company. But I'll find something with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	We all recognise the importance of Schiphol for the Netherlands. The question is whether it has not been enough at some point when it comes to the rate of growth. Can we still handle it? That is a critical question, which we may well ask. You see Schiphol with all the love and pleasure giving away slots and jobs, but then it says in the newspaper: ooh, it's gonna be expensive. Then the Secretary of State is asked to open a temporary hall again. That then suddenly is a responsibility of the government. I ask the Secretary of State if we are not in danger of creating a second Fyra. First, we try to bring in as many planes as possible, while we do not yet have the runways in order. This applies to Schiphol, but Lelystad is also delayed and the accessibility around Eindhoven is not yet in order. We should not have a major problem with the accessibility of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	I agree with Mr Van Helvert that you have to ask that question, including the question of the rate of growth. This is a trade-off that the company has to make in the first instance, because the company must be able to guarantee that the operational capacity needed to cope with growth is actually there. For our part, we are doing everything we can to accommodate this growth as well as possible. We have agreed on a limit to growth, not only because of the opportunities for the company, but also because of the feelings of the local people. We need to take a good look at that. It is not that I can say from my position: it has to be exactly the same and no different. I do agree with you that an important signal in the direction of Schiphol should be: make sure that you are able to cope with that growth and take everyone with it as much as possible. The other way around, we are doing everything we can in the Cabinet to cope with this growth. I do not think that the comparison with the Fyra is right in this case. There the trains stayed away and here you can see that the planes are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	This brings us to the end of Question Time. We're gonna have a VAO first, and then we're gonna vote.
