ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Rog, who is asking questions to the Minister on behalf of the CDA. I forgot to welcome the Minister. This is your first gig in box K, so welcome to our room! I call Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you will allow me to begin by congratulating ourselves on that beautiful national tricolor behind you. I am pleased that it is in our Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The NOS has reported that in one half of the VMBO schools half of the VMBOs flow to the Havo and on the other half no one at all. On the one hand, I think it is understandable that not everyone is going to get to the harvo, because the royal route is still flowing from the vmbo to the mbo, a route with a lot of opportunities for a job, which often also fits well. However, the education inspection notes that the flow rates in similar schools are very different. My question is, what is the reason for this? Can these differences also be explained by risk-avoidance behaviour? That's how I ask the Minister. Is it about schools that do not dare to let a student flow for fear that this will bring down the results of the school? We often talk about opportunities, equal opportunities for all pupils. Does the Minister agree with me that pupils should have the same chance of moving to a higher level in equal cases? The chairman of the VO council, Paul Rosenmöller, states that students should not flow if they do not have a chance of a successful flow through, but who decides? Who decides if a student has a chance or not? And what about the agreements of the sector itself? There was an access code; students with an average 6.9 should always be allowed to pass through. How many schools deviate from this code?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you for your words of welcome just now. In fact, I noticed that something had changed in this Chamber and that had to do with the flag that stands there. I was there when the Chamber ruled on that, so it didn't surprise me at all either. As far as Mr Rog's questions are concerned, I would like to start by complimenting the NOS on having taken the trouble to go to the website'schoolopdekaart.nl'. That site came from the sector, but the Ministry of OCW helped to fund it. That's good because this is also the time when many parents with their children go to schools and visit open days. Then it's okay, and that's what that website is meant for, that you know exactly what the flow is and where those students are going. Mr Rog rightly points out that in the end the choice to go from VMBO to MBO is also a very good one. We have strong vocational education in the Netherlands. We also want to strengthen this in the coming years, so if many students go to the MBO, that is a very good thing in itself. There must also be room for the pupils of the mixed learning path and the theoretical learning path to get to the Havo. The figures on the basis of which the NIS has drawn conclusions are figures at micro level. On the basis of a school map, a website that has been put on the map by them, I'm just going to say that you can see what's happening at school level. Based on the figures that are also kept by the Ministry, the main focus is on how the flow of the VMBO to the HAVO is from the learning routes. If you look at that flow, you can see that there is even an increase in the number of students going from vmbo to harvo. It is a very slight increase, especially on the theoretical learning path. In the mixed learning path, the flow has declined slightly over the past year, but that is a minimum difference. So there is an increase. Your questions are focused on the question: but now suppose that a student wants to go to Havo; is it then blocked in this choice; what is happening there? Of course, we do not have a complete view of this up to the teachers' rooms where they talk to pupils and parents. There has been a lot of talk in the past about the fact that it does indeed seem as if they are more or less prevented from making a choice for the havo. In the past, in 2015, the Chamber adopted a motion from Mr Grashoff, under which, to my surprise, I also saw my own name underneath, but then in a different position. And a year later, a motion was passed by the Member Vermue of the Labour Party. It has indicated that it cannot be that students like them are more or less prevented from making such a switch. The cabinet was then instructed to lay down a right of flow in the law, so that if a student wants to go to the havo from the vmbo, there is a right to do so. The Chamber has also been informed that we are in the process of preparing this legislation. We will have our hands full in the next calendar year, but it is coming. Then it will also be laid down by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	Indeed, my questions do not even focus on the right of transit in general, but rather on equal rights for pupils in different schools. I am very surprised at the fact that there are therefore schools where zero students go through to the HAVO. Then I ask the Minister: are there at those dozens of schools that the NIS has found zero students are passing to the HAVO, are there not students who have reached an average of 6.8? How seriously does the sector take its own code for passing students from vmbo to mavo? And what about the flow from havo to vwo? Because we're talking about Mavo to Havo, but I'm having trouble with the fact that when they're 12 years old, students actually have to make a choice for a school that does give them the chance to move on to the level where they might end up getting right, when they're, for example, a havo/vwo student or a mavo/havolent. I would like those questions answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	When it comes to the discussion about how to move on to whatever direction you would like, from vmbo to the havo, or from the havo to the vwo, or to the mbo from the vmbo, the reason is to create the website Scholen on the map, to keep it in the air and to make sure that it is well filled from the schools just to be transparent in that. It is also meant to give the parents, because of course they go with them, especially at that age, with the students in their hands. This way, when they go to a specific educational institution, they can have the conversation about it. I am glad that it works and hope that it will work for other school levels as well. Then there's the flow-through code. Asked how many schools didn't live up to that. That's a bit of a negative approach. The Chamber was informed of this in January. Those are the last numbers we've passed on. 84% of the Havos comply with the requirement of the 6.8 you mentioned, and 16% do not make any demands. The latter is, of course, a reason to talk to them about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finalizing Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, rounding it up. That would also be my last appeal to this minister. Is he prepared to talk to the schools to ensure that students end up with the same opportunities for passing from one level to another, so that we do not have to deal with unequal opportunities in equal situations? Not every student is equal, which is very disappointing for some, but that is the case. But what matters to me is that pupils' rights are equal in equal situations. That is not the case now, we have to observe. Is the Minister talking to the vo-sector about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to say to Mr Rog that in most cases it is the situation. But in situations where that is not the case, it is indeed a very important point of discussion as far as we are concerned. For every student deserves equal opportunities in equal situations. This has always been the underlying motivation, also in the past and also in the previous cabinet, to discuss this with the Chamber and to take a number of actions that will ensure that it is implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rog. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	This little debate and this question is not about whether havo is better than mbo. Because it's not. They are equivalent training courses, but for each child it can be very important to make the right choice. This is about who makes the choice. Right now, those are the school boards. The Chamber has already given its opinion on this, and so has my group. We want this choice to be with the student and his parents, of course, with the help of good education from the school. This excellent research by the NIS makes it clear that the law with the right of transit must really be introduced, otherwise school management will be in the way of children's opportunities and choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	So my question to the Minister is when we can expect that law. I think this study shows that there is a hurry. Is the Minister prepared to regulate properly in the law that the preparation can be optimal in the event that the choice goes in the direction of the HAVO?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	The legislation has now been prepared. The internet consultation has now been completed. You also know the follow-up. So there is the execution test. The Council of State will, of course, have to say something about this. Depending on what we will get back from the Council of State and what the execution test will yield, we will be able to determine what speed we can make. Madam President, I say to Mr Van Meenen through you that you can rely on us to try to do this as quickly as possible, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP, although I also see Mr Van Meenen on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps Mr Van Meenen would like to hear from me some sort of final moment? That's very hard to give. He may want to hear that information will also take a place as a whole. That goes without saying, I think. If I miss a question now, I hope you will be so generous as to give Mr Van Meenen the floor, Mr President, but that is what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	When it comes to a procedural point, that is fine, but Mr Van Meenen should not ask a follow-up question, because that means that I must also offer the others the same possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Let me get this straight. This is not a follow-up question. I asked if the Minister would be prepared to include in the legislative proposal how this optimal preparation could take place. I mean that the extra box will also be made possible if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	Havo or mbo; it's both equally sweet. In my opinion, the whole society benefits every day from the fantastic professionals trained at the MBO, but if you want to take the step to the HAVO, that should be possible. Then my mouth falls wide open when I read the reaction of the boss of the school boards, Paul Rosenmöller, who talks about a chanceless route. A route that eventually leads via the vmbo to the havo or to the hbo. I believe that GroenLinks now has a group chairman who proves par excellence that starting at VMBO is far from a hopeless route. Does the Minister also want to talk to the school authorities, even if there is not yet a law, to ensure that they give as many children as possible the opportunity to choose their future from the VMBO themselves, whether in the direction of the MBO or in the direction of the HAVO?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	I do not have the exact wording of Mr Rosenmöller on hand, but I know that he has made a very important statement. I agree with that, too. We know that the preparatory secondary vocational education of course also wants to equip pupils to make that step towards secondary vocational education. Most students choose to do that, and we like that too. That's good education in the Netherlands. Last week I also visited schools in Gorinchem and Dordrecht, where even vmbo and mbo were offered equally. Students could stay at the same school and, due to a good collaboration between schools, eventually with two diplomas leave school after six, seven years. Some students could also speed it up. That is the statement that I believe Mr Rosenmöller made. Then there are the other choices that are made when students want to go to the havo. We have also decided later that it is their right to make that choice. They can take that step, of course. Schools must ensure that they are able to do so and that all kinds of preparations are made to put them in a position to get to work. I have a very small correction to an earlier answer. I thought the internet consultation had already been completed, but it is in a final phase and not quite finished. Of course there is gas; you will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	I took up the motion the minister referred to. His name is underneath and also that of colleague Van Meenen. This motion is about the flow right. In addition to the legal guarantee of the right of transit, there will also be an additional admission requirement, namely that pupils should take an additional course. Mr Van Meenen already referred to this. Does the Minister think schools are ready to give that extra course? We are already seeing great differences between schools. Is this perhaps an additional obstacle for students?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	I cannot, of course, judge at every school level whether everyone is ready for that. But let me make one thing clear: this is coming. We are preparing this legislation. Schools need to prepare for that. It is also a good thing that this is being discussed here, because schools follow the deliberations in the Chamber. They know that they will also have to pick it up at the level of the subjects. The havo then asks more than on the vmbo is asked in numbers. The schools will therefore have to be joined. We will take that into account in the talks we have with the representatives of the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think that the big point we have been discussing here in response to Mr Rog's questions is that it should not matter for a student at which school he is in. This applies both to the possibility of transit, but in general also to quality. Examination of the inspection showed that there are still very large differences in quality between schools in the Netherlands. According to a sample, only 8% of schools are good. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that we should strive, including as an inspection, as a critical friend, to look with all those schools that are not yet good, so that all those students, who are entitled to a good school, who eventually get good school? Could the element of transit be included in the quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Of course we have only one goal: we try to get the level, which is good in the Netherlands, to an even higher level. You always want to follow up with each other. That's what it's all about. This is where the conversations, also from the inspection, are organized with the schools. They are meant to keep quality at level and where that can be further extended. The fact that this type of information and research are available ensures that this discussion will continue. We started with the website schoolsopdekaart.nl, but it is also about information from the inspection, about the State of Education and about all kinds of other figures that will become available. We offer this transparently and openly, including to society. After all, education is paid out of community money. It is good that this debate will continue, because this can only improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Your second supplementary question, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	I hope that the Minister means that it is not only important that this information is transparent, but also that the inspection then, on the basis of that information, will discuss with each school how to improve quality, so that every student has the best possible school and his chances do not depend on which school he is at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	I very much agree with that, because that is how the inspection works. The inspection shall be carried out on the basis of figures and data requested, which shall be objective. She's going to talk to those schools to get the quality higher. My statement here is that the information should not only be used by the inspection, but that it should also be made available to parents, pupils and schools so that the same conversations are held at that place where the inspection is not always there. I hope that there will be the same desire to increase quality, as I am now experiencing in the Chamber during this little Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. After the suspension, we'll vote.
