ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. All participants have three minutes' speaking time and the first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Helder of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some time ago, this debate was requested by me on the basis of two articles, namely Emergency Crying Agents, and finally, the citizen is screwed, and of course the report The local significance of the base teams. Many of the criticisms mentioned therein have long been known, but unfortunately still have not been resolved. Despite the fact that we are now having the debate with a outgoing minister and the answer to the request for more money for the police is almost certainly being moved to a new cabinet, I have left this debate on the agenda. Perhaps it could give a boost to the discussions at the formation table, because, as I said, these problems are not new. They are known to parties and the forming parties had in campaign time praised the police. In good Dutch I ask: put your money where your mouth is. The problems are serious enough and, as far as my group is concerned, we must put an end to them. In short, the following is the picture that emerges from the report. It's also what the agent in question outlined in the articles. A lack of capacity does not pick up a lot of crime; only forms of crime identified as a spearhead are picked up; there is not enough effective manpower to fight serious crime; the police are less accessible; many district offices are closed and the number of service cars is too small to cover the large area of a team. The Minister writes in his letter that at the end of this year for the basic teams I quote 'the basis on order'. However, the question is whether we will have a cabinet by the end of this year. In the meantime, the police have to go through. According to the Minister, the police will continue to optimise and improve the base teams by seeking appropriate responses to the challenges identified internally and externally. That's what the Minister's letter says. Politically correct terms for: you solve it yourself again. As far as my group is concerned, the police organisation as a whole, but also the citizen, has been put to the test long enough. We're out of patience and we just need money. Not the so-called 'extra money', which turned out to be only a minor cut, but real money, so that enough agents can be trained and agents preserved. During Question Time yesterday on the number of detentions in criminal cases, I said that in my view one of the causes of the problems is the enormous cuts in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister replied, and I quote again, that 'this subject will undoubtedly be on the table in the meetings currently taking place'. End of quote. These talks are being leaked, but the police are being kept quiet. Mr Baudet leaves his beard until there is a new cabinet. Fortunately, I do not see much point in this, but I hope that the Minister will at least reply in the near future that this issue will certainly be on the formation table and that the police will be clear soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The vast majority of our policemen are fantastic, but we can't say that from the police organization. In autumn, as a Chamber, we will be able to examine the evaluation report of the Police Act 2012. Is the glass half empty or is it half full? In the run-up to this evaluation, many reports and opinions appear on the functioning of our police. It is good that we are talking about two of these reports here today, but the real political significance can only be determined when the overall picture is before us. The King's Commissioners give the advice: get more police in the countryside. The CDA Group fully recognizes this point. For some time now, we have been calling for attention to be paid to the presence of the police in rural areas, where hemp mafia farmers and other entrepreneurs are overwhelmed by the illegal deposit of drug waste or the obligation to allow hemp plantations or xtc laboratories. Of course there is the Task Force Brabant, but now we hear sounds from administrators from other provinces that the problem is moving. I would like to draw attention to the structural failure to retrieve the driving time for 112 priority 1 notifications. The police talk about "exact force" in serious crimes such as robberies and home invasions, but then you have to get there quickly. Recently, the Security and Justice Committee received a petition from the municipality of Grootegast in Groningen. There only 50% of that standard is met. There will only be a break-in... In fact, that is a form of legal inequality in relation to large cities, where that standard is achieved much better. Does the Minister recognize this image? Does he agree with the CDA Group that it should not matter whether you live in the city or in the countryside and that the police should be able to be present within the set standards? Then there's the police academy report. Both policemen and mayors agree on one thing: there is far too little criminal action against organised criminals. The organized drug crime has become socially embedded in their eyes. Within the base teams there is detection capacity, but it is mainly engaged in common crime. We can, of course, engage in this discussion very much from the point of view of capacity, but there is also another aspect, namely the concept. Making it work better also has to do with other concepts, for example by keeping criminals small, by tackling them quickly, not only by the police but also by other parties, such as parole, municipalities, schools and healthcare institutions. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this report on the basic teams has already led to this kind of other approach to local undermining crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of talk about the police in the last few days, and today we're doing it again. I would like to say to Mrs Helder that, of course, the police are also on the formation table. This autumn we are also discussing the evaluation of the introduction of the national police on the basis of the Kuiken report to be published. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the debate on what we think about the functioning of the national police should have taken place at a different time, but there are a number of points in the report on the local significance of the basic teams that we can already talk about. The question is, of course, whether the basic teams can adequately anticipate what is being asked of them. The report shows a mixed picture in this respect. The basic teams function, but with the current generalist composition organized crime still retains too much freedom. In particular, the report points out that there is a need for more detectives in the base teams. Although the Minister writes that he does not want to interfere with the concept of the basic teams, I hope he will take this appeal to heart. Does he agree with the D66 Group that greater flexibility in the use of police capacity is desirable? What is his opinion on the essential question in my view for more detectives in those base teams? Already in the formation of the national police, D6 has advocated that local authority should be given more control over local priorities and that, to say disrespectfully, political hobbies from The Hague should not dominate the local need. How does the Minister focus on reducing local control, controlling what local problems police capacity is deployed? A second point that struck me in the report concerns training for the use of force. Not insignificant, considering the police's ever-expanding arsenal of weapons. Agents should follow only a handful, but crucial training days. Although the Minister is full of the development of the integrated vocational skills training new style, it is of course a question of police officers not being able to follow the training because of lack of time and capacity. This also applies to the mandatory fitness test for agents authorised to use means of violence. Last week it became clear that it is not being achieved or is not being done at all. I don't think this is the cops' unwillingness. What is the Minister's response to this? How is he going to ensure that these kinds of tests can be done on a regular basis and that agents can actually succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u6	I call Mr Van Raak of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u7	Last time I was on a Friday on a square in Amsterdam with many entertainment venues. I saw the police there: people, men and women, who did very good work and also worked very well together, for example with the bouncers of the clubs. But I saw a lot more in that square. I saw Hosts. I saw private security. I saw municipal enforcers. I saw street coaches. There was a whole range of officials, investigators and supervisors, all people hired by the municipality. That is not only in Amsterdam; that is now in almost every municipality. Everywhere you see that in all kinds, shapes and colors forms of municipal police arise for the simple reason that the national police do not deliver. This directly contradicts one of the most important agreements we made with the Ministry at the time: the national police must not be at the expense of the local embedding of police work. We have even set tough standards. Now you see that if council members and mayors want to take on their responsibilities, there is simply not enough police and that all kinds and sizes of people need to be hired to maintain order. Does the Minister agree with me that that was never the intention? You can also see that some groups are controlled, supervised or not accompanied by the police at all and that the same policemen also take a lot of time. This applies to a rich municipality like Amsterdam, but you also have a lot of rural communities that have much less opportunities to do so. Police care doesn't mean there's a police car driving through your village at 11:30 on Tuesday morning. The fact that offices and posts have been closed has really led to police work being left behind in many parts of our country. I'll look at the Minister's figures. He says: yes, there are plenty of district agents, the formation is 94% occupied. When I speak to district agents, they almost all say that these figures are a paper reality, that in reality they are not as often in the neighborhood as they should be, that they have to run emergency services and fill gaps. Because there's one thing you hear at every police station: we can barely get the rosters around. There is a big difference between the paper reality of the ministry and the blue reality on the street. We are going to evaluate the national police, but we ourselves started a large survey of policemen as SP, along with a number of police unions. It's in a final phase. We have made all the promises made by the national police in addition to the experiences of the police themselves. These results will hopefully be published one of these days, but I can tell the Minister that the gap between his ministry and the people on the street is incredibly large.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u8	I call Mr Van Oosten of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that the police contribute significantly to our sense of security. It is the police who work day in, day out to guard security and take a step forward when others step back. It's important that everyone in our country can go to the police. The basic police teams, which are now at the heart of this debate, play a crucial role in this. In fact, they form the backbone of the organization. From these base teams, every cop works in his or her own neighborhood. They are also the main point of contact for the inhabitants of our country. In the formation of the national police, 167 basic teams have been set up throughout the country. That's had quite a few feet in the earth. The establishment of the national police as such has, of course, also led to reorganisations and unrest among agents. A rounding process is now under way, and it is also appropriate to look back at whether the goals set by the Chamber in the transformation of the national police force have been achieved. My group therefore looks forward to the evaluation of Mr Kuijken which we are expecting this autumn. The report will tell us what is going well, but also where the points need to be put. The report devoted to today's debate is in itself rather limited. A number of the 167 base teams have been considered for this purpose. My party, with Mr Kuijken's report in its hand, would like to take a much broader look back at the developments of the last period. I see the report that we're discussing today as a top-up to that broader report. In that sense, I think today's debate is premature. When we discuss that Kuijken report, hopefully the formation will also be completed and the budget for Security and Justice has been adopted. Then we can simply have that debate much more concretely. But now that we have the report we are discussing today, I would like to ask one very specific question. That concludes my contribution. Tucked away on page 110, I read that there is not enough useful criminal information available to deal with undermining. Yes, something is not going well, either in the sharing of knowledge, or in the gathering of knowledge between the basic teams or with local authority, including the triangle and including the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is mentioned in the report, but useful information is, of course, crucial for the proper functioning of these basic teams. I am concerned about this and I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. In fact, I would like to know from the Minister: if it turns out that this would not work properly, how are we going to improve this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, too. I call Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Several spokesmen have already said here that the work that policemen do day in, day out, night in, night out, is of great concern to us all. That also requires all the attention, including from politics. We will continue to talk when the evaluation of the functioning of the national police is complete. But this debate takes place, among other things, following the report The local significance of base teams. In that report, surprisingly enough, a reasonably positive picture of the base teams is outlined. Citizens and mayors are generally satisfied with the police. The researchers note that the basic teams function in current cases such as emergency aid and the recording of declarations. But the agents themselves are very critical about the performance of, for example, tackling undermining crime. In addition, police unions complain about the lack of blue in the streets, the lack of visibility of district agents and the closure of police stations. Finally, since yesterday there has been a destructive report on the central works council. We are going to talk about this separately in a debate. The report is particularly critical of the fight against organised crime. The basic teams do not use sufficient detection capacity for this purpose. More money and measures are needed. All the negotiating parties now have that in their electoral programme at least, so that should be good in principle. At least we hope so. I am counting on specific funding to tackle undermining. The book The back of the Netherlands shows how intertwined the upper world and the underworld are. In Brabant this is now the most visible, but in other provinces this plays just as hard. That is also why we, with other parties, are working on an initiative-law proposal to ban criminal motorcycle clubs. Erik Akerboom himself said in February that the police were out of control in centralization and the pursuit of efficiency. He mentioned the closure of small neighbourhood offices as an example. This has reduced the visibility of the police and reduced contact with the citizen. Meanwhile, however, the closing of police stations continues. We ask the Minister: isn't it time for a pass on the spot? Then there are other worrying points. Cops who have to make long travel hours to get home to work. That can even lead to danger after a long night shift. What is being done about it? What has been the cost of additional travel allowances since the introduction of the national police force? I'm closing up. As I said, I would have preferred to have this debate with the new Minister of Security. We have little time now, but given the upcoming evaluation of the national police, this will certainly not be the last time we talk about this important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. It's good to talk about the problems in the national police, the detectives and the base police teams. But let us not forget that tens of thousands of agents are fully committed to making the Netherlands safer. They do not always feel supported by politics. GroenLinks likes to express his appreciation for the great commitment of all those police officers who sometimes even make a difference in cases of life or death. Like everyone else in the room, GroenLinks wonders whether crime rates are actually falling, which would be very nice, or whether there is only a paper reality, caused by a diminishing confidence of crime victims in a successful outcome of their case. This is without prejudice to the fact that the majority of people are satisfied with their contact with the police. The problems have been extensively identified by previous speakers: the quality of detection should be raised, as should the presence of the police on the streets. Especially worrying is the local embedding of the police themselves. Again you see a great satisfaction with the police and their commitment. But there is also great criticism of the police organisation itself. Local administrators and city council members are not always satisfied with the number of police officers in their municipalities. But policemen themselves are also dissatisfied with how to do their job now. The area of work is too large, which necessarily means having to be surveyed by car, the suspicion of ethnic profiling affects the police deeply and the personnel composition of the police still does not always reflect the population composition. In short, nobody here in the house is really completely satisfied with the way things are going. It seems a bit like the minister has lost the port of the research in translation. GroenLinks would have liked to have heard more about the series of initiatives to strengthen cooperation between security partners. Given the seriousness of the problems, you would assume that the Minister feels called upon to demonstrate progress in the improvement process with concrete points of improvement. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. The problems in the national police base teams are getting worse. 50PLUS believes that this term can be better supplemented to national police crisis. We regularly read it: a cop advises the victim not to report it, because nothing happens to it anyway; too little capacity in the CID. Are those messages true? Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that this undermines the feeling that we should be able to count on the rule of law? Will the Minister promise that this action will cease? In the report on base teams, district agents state that a balding has occurred in sparsely populated areas. In the investigation "Viewed from the sidelines," the King's Commissioners even talk about a police-free countryside where criminals have free rein. Can the Minister contradict this alarming message? If not, what's his reaction? Shouldn't each municipality have at least one police station or police office in the town hall? In the case of home invasion, the detection rate is only 10%. Whoever gets caught is out the next day as a result of the fast-track law of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the so-called ZSM take-off. The 2017 National Threat Statue research confirms this and sketches a shocking picture of how countless foreign criminal organisations find ZSM justice. So it attracts burglars. If the justice chain is as leaky as a basket, aren't there ever enough district cops and detectives? I'd like a response. Why is home invasion, a crime with profound consequences for victims, covered by this ZSM affair? Can the minister be there as soon as possible? Put an end to it? Last year, the Security and Justice Inspectorate looked at the dramatic figures on home invasions and found that they were correct. With all due respect, a real watchdog would have to investigate why home invasion turns out to be insoluble. The inspection is acting like a lapdog. Isn't that supposed to be an independent terrier? I would also like to comment on this. Finally. The police can't be everywhere. We don't want a cop on every corner. It is good that the citizen is involved via Search Requested and the NeighborhoodApp, but Search Requested cannot always report on current situations. The NeighborhoodApp is fast but limited. There used to be a police report, usually right after the eight-hour report. 50PLUS believes the police report can fill a gap. It helps the police track and warns the public about criminals. Is it possible that the editors of Search Requested may take care of such a police message on TV and social media? To end positive, thank you to all those hard-working policemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u14	Here's a police report: I'll suspend for ten minutes, then we'll listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. In their speech, most speakers rightly pay a great deal of attention to the extremely important and useful work that policemen and women do day in and day out for us. That compliment was quite rightly distributed here. I have a lot of fun work, but among the best parts of my work are the moments when I have the chance to ride with people again through Rotterdam-Zuid, to walk through The Hague again, or, like last week, to see how a basic team has applied new developments in the field of ICT, which makes it very easy for citizens to report notifications online via Facebook and via Twitter. This makes the range of the police even greater than patrolling the streets, which is of course also important. They are incredibly motivated people to whom the Netherlands owes a great deal of thanks. That does not mean that everything is perfect, but the picture is more nuanced than a number of speakers indicated, although Mr Van Dijk quite rightly pointed out that one of the reports on the subject today is really not able to read the local meaning of basic teams that only misery is involved. Yes, there is criticism and there is concern about a number of parts, but citizens give our police a very large enough amount. They also have the same image here in the Chamber of the enormous effort of police. Mayors have the same thing about the whole thing. Indeed, councilmen are critical. There are also important critical signals from the policemen themselves. That's incredibly important. Everyone is talking about their own input, but I do not think that we are doing the police a service by shouting here that it is a tear valley, while the investigation we have had comes up with a nuanced picture, which shows that there are points of improvement, which I will go into, but also that the enormous commitment of our policemen does lead to results and is seen. At the beginning of my ministry, because I always find this very interesting, I asked whether there are international investigations into the quality of the Dutch police. There are and they really show a very good picture. When I speak to my foreign colleagues, like tonight when I return to the JHA Council, they generally speak with great admiration of the Dutch police. Often they struggle with different layers of police, they still have forms of municipal police, regional police and national police, and they indicate that this is a real handicap, for example in dealing with organised crime or in tackling terrorism. So there is a great deal of appreciation for the Dutch police at home and abroad, in investigations and on the streets. This gives us, above all, the duty to take very good care of the police and to ensure that people can do their good work. After this introduction, I will deal with the questions asked. Mrs Helder asked the question, which was known to me, whether more money would be available to the police. She herself replied that this is undoubtedly a subject that lies on the formation table, but that in the meantime I am doing it with the extra space that I have fortunately been given in the current budget. Mr Van Dam asked to be the first to comment on the report of the King's Commissioners; others later commented on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u16	I am glad that the Minister has listened carefully to my input, but I had also asked another question. Of course, the Minister does not have a glass ball, but I would like to ask him if he can give us any indication as to whether it will be clear soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u17	What do you think I'm gonna say? That's up to the negotiators. I'm standing right here. I am standing here all day, by the way, so I cannot contribute to the pace of the negotiations either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, but all madness on a stick: we've been waiting a long time. The subjects are not new; that is what I said. I'm glad the minister just said we have a duty to take good care of our policemen. The fact that it will be clear soon is something that I think should be covered by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yes, I also very much hope that the negotiations will come to a successful conclusion soon. But I'm standing here right now and I'm not negotiating. I had stayed with Mr Van Dam, who first asked for a response to the King's Commissioners' report. They strongly call for more police capacity. They go specifically into rural areas. As Mr Van Dam knows, similar calls have been made from Amsterdam and Rotterdam. So we can conclude that there is actually a very broad call... then I am back with Mrs Helder.. for more policemen and women on the street. Each political party has given this its own translation into its electoral programme. I assume that an average of this will now be found in the coalition agreement negotiations. I come to the specific point of driving time. We intend to have the police present within the time limit. Local authority may differ from that; in the triangle a separate agreement can be made. I realize it doesn't work out in all cases. Nor do I think it is realistic to guarantee that it can always succeed. Eventually, police work and security work are always dealing with the available resources. This is reflected in the number of police stations and the number of people, and thus also in the driving times in the countryside. It has been very consciously chosen to publish by region how the driving times are doing. In some places it is also agreed to provide customized services. But I can't just promise we'll be able to live up to 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u20	I was not so much concerned with the question of whether everyone always fully meets that standard, because I fully understand that the circumstances of the case can influence that very much. I was almost more concerned with the underlying rule of law that a resident of the Netherlands who lives in the countryside has the same right to protection of the government, and in principle also to the presence of the police within the prescribed standard. Then it is still true that if there are two notifications at the same time, one notification will not be followed up. But do the same principles apply? I think it's very important to establish that. I was looking for a statement from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u21	If Mr Van Dam puts it that way, of course I agree with him. People in the Netherlands are treated equally. This is certainly true in the case of safety care. At the same time, I must add the nuance that I cannot guarantee that it will lead to the desired result in 100% of the cases. Mr Van Dam understands that nuance very well. Mr Van Dam was the first to ask whether this report on the basic teams has in any case contributed to a different approach to local crime. Mrs Özütok also replied. Yes, a number of improvements have already been made. In addition, the current police organisation is, of course, very much based on the wishes that existed in shaping the national police force, already five years ago. In a changing world with changing patterns of crime, it is not surprising that the police as an organisation also join. Fortunately, we have had great success in the area of common crime. There are really major steps forward in this respect, and I shall go into the figures in a moment. At the same time, however, we are seeing an increasing nuisance of organised crime and cybercrime. Then it makes sense for you to adapt your organization to that. But it also makes sense that you didn't do that already in 2012, because the societal challenge was different then. There have been major successes in the field of ICT within the police. Much remains to be done, but I will give you a good example. When I'm on the street with cops, I find the use of the iPhone, which makes it easy to file reports, to identify people quickly and to see if they're wanted, a huge advance. As far as I know, that application is not available anywhere else in the world in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u22	I would just like to highlight, also for future debates, that the Minister for Security and Justice, who is responsible for the police in the Netherlands, says here that ICT has become much better with the police. I want that highlighted in this debate so that we can find it easily later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u23	We'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u24	In the example I mentioned, I saw people nodding in the room. They saw those iPhones, too. Does Mr Van Raak consider that example to be a deterioration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u25	I used to sit on a desk next to a cop with a stopwatch in his hand. We looked at how long it took to start the business. That took a terrifyingly long time. I've already told the Minister that I've conducted a survey of police officers together with the police unions. I hope that I will be able to present the results this week or next week. I received reactions from agents that it had not been possible to fill in the survey because the computer systems were so slow and could not handle this, by the way very small, program. The most basic things aren't in order. Cops still keep track of parallel information themselves because they can't do it in the systems. Cops also say that crime rates are falling, but that is equivalent to the decline in ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u26	I asked a very short, concrete question, namely whether the iPhones that are working on the streets are an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u27	It is now a bit off in terms of who is asking the questions and who is giving the answers. Can you finish, Mr Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u28	This is exactly the problem. The Minister says: I'm going to make a ruling on ICT. I see iPhones are working well, so I'm fine with ICT. If this is the way the minister directs the police, I can see why there are so many problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr Van Raak does not do any justice to my answer. I have said that there is great progress, for example in the area of iPhones, but at the same time there is still a huge task. That was my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u30	Let me say first of all that it is in itself a positive message that a SP survey cannot be completed at work; you should just do that at home. But my question focused on something else. When you talk to policemen and when you read this report, you can see that a lot is going well. But one of the things that isn't going well is that undermining is catching up in the neighborhood. Police see that there is a shishalounge or a restaurant tent that is wrong, but the basic teams lack the capacity to do something about it. Have any steps been taken to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u31	I was only halfway through my answer. I indicated that improvements have been made within the police organisation, but there is still much to be done. That introduction already indicated that I was going to say something about the situation outside the police organisation, because it is crucial that there is good cooperation with municipalities, probation and youth assistance. In his speech, Mr Van Dam also mentioned this himself. Major blows have been made in the RIEC's, the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, in which all these parties sit around the table. Fortunately, in recent years of financial scarcity, additional money has also become available to support those RIECs. The base teams are now doing detective work on common crime. In the report, there is a specific suggestion to also do detective work on organised crime within the basic teams. I do not think that this is a logical step, in consultation with the police leadership, because organized crime is complex and often cross-border. It is therefore wise to continue to concentrate this expertise. However, a focus is to ensure that signals from the base teams are picked up. Mrs Van Engelshoven argued that there should be sufficient local space. My next debate is about a problem in Limburg, so I am very curious about the input on the topic of local space and Hague interference. In general, I very much agree with Mrs Van Engelshoven that there should be room for local tailor-made work. This is also very important for some of the themes we are discussing here. I also agree with her call for sufficient flexibility in police capacity. The Chamber received a response from me before the summer to the IBO report on the police. On behalf of the cabinet, I stressed the importance of this flexibility. The changing world takes care of that need. In the formation of the national police, it was very well defendable to steer very centrally on numbers of agents on the streets and to do so nationally, but in the event of a shift from common crime, which was at the time the main theme, to more complex crime, often requiring a different type of expertise, namely financial expertise and cyber expertise, you need more flexibility in your organisation. This sometimes also means that the Chamber takes a step back and offers room for that flexibility. In this context, Mrs Van Engelshoven asked about the pinching frameworks. We should not always dictate from The Hague exactly how much is needed for a particular purpose or theme, no matter how important that theme is. I have spoken regularly in the Chamber about traffic crime, environmental crime, cybercrime and child abuse. Every subject is important, but it is unwise to frame the police from The Hague ever further, while the local area can differ very much how important one or the other theme is. So I am actually very pleased with Mrs Van Engelshoven's appeal. It also addressed the signal that too little can be done in the field of violence control and that participation in the fitness tests and their results are not yet sufficient. An innovation step has been taken in the training, under the name "Integral Professional Skills Training." The innovation is that the training is focused as much as possible on the practice, so not so much on tests. This includes the physical skill test. This will inevitably require a process of introduction. The next few years, up to 2020, are earmarked for this purpose. In addition, it has been agreed in the current police cao that the number of training hours is increased from at least 32 hours to 42 hours per employee. I agree that the signs of this really give rise to these additional measures. Mrs Van Engelshoven also asked for the opinion to focus capacity in the basic teams on organised crime. I hope that I have answered Mr Van Dam's question sufficiently. Mr Van Raak sketched his presence on an Amsterdam square, where he was not the only one; he saw, among other things, a number of boas. I do not know any figures showing that the number of boas is increasing nationally. I do know they're used in a lot of places. That's a municipal jurisdiction. I also think it makes sense for a municipality to do that. To be honest, I also think it is logical that, in the context of a sensible use of people and resources, you use part of policemen and women, with their heavy training and selection, for the tasks you absolutely need them for, and for other public and security tasks, which are equally important but which do not always require such a heavy training, you employ other people, who are also motivated and expert in that field. Why should we be against that? I also don't have the signal that that's growing enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u32	Well, because it costs the municipalities a lot of money and savings in the government are just being paid by the municipalities again. But there's also something else going on. It is true: these people are all doing their best and they all have important tasks. But the cop I walk with sees a hundred things at once. He will then have to make a balance: given today's capacity, given today's priorities, the plan for tonight, I am going to act against it and I am going to keep an eye on the other one, but I am going to let that go. If there is a host, a private security guard, a municipal manager or a street coach, it may happen that it does appeal to someone, that they are going to perform. Then we'll need the police to bring someone in. Then a cop like that spends two or three hours on a case he said it's not a priority, given tonight's plan. Then it's not a supplement anymore. Then it's become a burden. I believe that the Minister should also look at these matters at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u33	If the situation arises as Mr Van Raak sketches it, then no good agreements have been made on the use of local boas by the municipality, with municipal money, and the use of police. Well, then that's not exactly something I have to take care of here at the Binnenhof. Then that is something that needs to be tuned into the local triangle. This will happen there too, because indeed: you spend scarce municipal money on this important goal and you get the signal that it doesn't work properly in this way. This is something that needs to be dealt with locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u34	I'm not asking the minister to talk to that host, that policeman, that private security guard, that city clerk, that bouncer and that street coach. I'll tell the minister there's a problem. When we established the national police as the Lower House, we made demands regarding the local embedding: enough people for municipal tasks, tasks at municipal level. That wild growth of boas is a sign that those people aren't there. So municipalities are going to organize, hire people themselves. This does not lead to more effective police care, but to more bureaucracy, more rule, more consultation, more hassle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Van Raak is a PhD scientist. This could lead him to choose some care in his expressions when he says very clearly that something is increasing or decreasing. That is measurable. I do not know any research, no figures showing that the number of boas in the Netherlands has increased enormously. If there are, I'd like to be convinced. But that is at the heart of Mr Van Raak's speech. In addition, he suggests that we are never sitting on a square in Amsterdam, never talking to cops and never talking to boas; only Mr Van Raak is in that happy situation. We do not know any figures. I do not know them about a spectacular increase in the number of boas. I think the boa is a very valuable instrument. The problem described by Mr Van Raak is above all something that needs to be filled in locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr Van Raak, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u37	Very briefly, finally, because I am done with this minister again. If we have to debate at this level, I don't have to. It's about boas. It's about security guards and bouncers. For example, they are also hosts and many private security guards. But let's get those numbers upstairs and do some tests. I hope, however, that I will be able to debate with the Minister at a slightly higher level in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u38	That is a mutual wish and all the figures help, Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak also referred to the scheduling of district agents. Are they not involved in emergency aid? Indeed, the signal that they are often called upon in the context of emergency aid also reaches me. That was also investigated by the Police Academy. By the way, the same research also indicates that many district agents at the same time indicate that they have a reasonable amount of time for work in the neighborhood. Sometimes that could be compromised. The space that basic teams have to provide locally is also very important. I gave the example I saw last week in Hengelo. A team has chosen to use a lot of people to communicate with people via new media, so that they can also pick up signals very quickly. They can also get more signals, and actually in a less real way. A similar interpretation applies in the Meierij. This underlines once again how incredibly important it is that we leave the room to fill things out locally in such a way that the work can be done as well as possible, and so we do not close it entirely from The Hague. Mr Van Dijk has indeed read in the report the same nuance as I have: there is much to improve, but at the same time there are many things to be proud of. One of the concerns he mentioned was closing desks. Isn't that at the expense of the contact in the neighborhood? Mr Akerboom himself has also indicated that he would like to take another critical look at this. That was also pointed out. In practice, very pragmatic interpretations have been given, such as a contact point in a town hall or the example in Hengelo, where physical contact is replaced by and supplemented by digital contact. In this respect, too, it would be unwise for me to take a central approach from The Hague to how many agencies there should be. Mr Krol suggested that there should be one office per municipality. I live in a city without a desk. Fortunately, I regularly see both a cop and a boa on the street with me. If you were to ask me what would be wise for me in Enkhuizen, money for bricks for a new desk or money for a good accessibility and enough cars on the street, so that you can reach me in an emergency call, I tend to say: just don't put it in those bricks. I'm happy with the department in Hoorn, as long as I run into a cop on the street enough times. So I do not want to focus on this. I say this in relation to Mr Van Dijk's question. My answer is not that nothing should happen, because I agree with the Chief Constable, who has indicated that he is going to take another critical look at whether this should be continued in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u39	The Minister only heard half of what I said. I wasn't just talking about one police station. I said either a police station or a police office. You are in the fortunate circumstance that by car you can easily go to the police station in a village further down the road. My supporters would be very pleased if, for example, they could also turn to a police office at the town hall. Those aren't bricks, because they're already there. That doesn't really have to cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u40	I do not think we disagree on the example of the police office, because I have just mentioned that. I have indicated that I would find it unwise to put a lot of money into it, because I can really think of better destinations for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u41	I fully recognise the dilemma between keeping a desk open where very few people are walking, and the idea that citizens have an office in their vicinity. But the other extreme is the pop-up tent we are treated to this summer. That's some kind of party tent where a policeman keeps a desk. Does the Minister agree with me that it may be very practical and fun if District Agent Janssen agrees, but that this is not what we should want for the image of the Dutch police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u42	I often agree with Mr Van Dam, but not now, because I think it is so crucial that policemen, basic teams, can experiment. Experimenting always means that afterward you can also say: this was not him. But I can very well imagine that in an area where there is a tourist peak, for example, many of them in the Netherlands are wise to work with a pop-up agency, because it is unwise to use permanent resources in that place. Because at some point the sailors or the bath guests are gone again. On the contrary, I want to prevent us from saying in advance that we should not, because I would much rather have the police dare to experiment and also learn from things that are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u43	If it's an experiment, I can imagine. But I would ask the Minister to continue to involve the police in the housing of the police. 'Cause I'm having a little trouble with that at the party tent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u44	Yeah, I can imagine anything at a party tent right now. I do agree with Mr Van Dam that when you experiment, you should always do that in a style and form that fits the authority that the police must radiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u45	I'll come back to the visibility anyway. I live in Den Burg myself. It's on an island. There's obviously a police station there, still. And I'm sure there will be. It is true, as the Minister says, not only in stones, but I do feel that it is necessary for the citizen and for the police I hear that policemen themselves should be organized close by. Mr Akerboom's concern is actually that we have lost out on efficiency and that we have come to think far too much at the centre. In that sense, I have another question, but perhaps that is the follow-up to the Minister's reply. What does that mean? When will the experimental period end if we already see concerns about reduced visibility among both police and citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u46	This means that I fully support Mr Akerboom in the conclusion he himself has already drawn. This does not mean that there are no more offices closed, but that he looks again critically at the pace and the places. I should have said that somewhat more broadly in the introduction, because some of you were right to do so, and this means that we should not have to wait for measures that make sense. That is why I also mentioned a number of measures that are now taking place around the basic teams, but also about organised crime. I really want Mr Kuijken's report, which some of you pointed out, before we take further far-reaching decisions at the central level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u47	I promised I wouldn't interrupt anymore, but I'd like to ask you one thing just to be sure. I agree with the Minister that the police should be able to experiment. I also agree that the Minister says that the police should be able to learn from it. But the minister wasn't quite clear. Is he for or against the police in the party tent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u48	That question is too simple. That really depends on what I have, quite frankly, also outlined or done because it is temporarily busy somewhere, for example in connection with a festival or tourism, or that there is no good reason to think of it. I think it's crucial that the police have the space to experiment with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u49	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u50	Then I agree with Mr Van Dam that the Minister should also give some thought to the police. How did the police come across? How does the environment in which policemen have to do their job come across? I don't think the idea of a police station in a party tent is entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u51	Then we have no difference of opinion, because when it comes to the stature, I indicated to Mr Van Dam that when experimenting you should take into account the fact that the police always have to radiate public authority. Mr Van Dijk discussed the commuting times of agents and the associated allowances. A temporary additional travel allowance has been agreed in the context of the formation of the national police force, allowing people facing these long travel times and distances to receive additional compensation for five years. Ms. Özütok...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I would have asked a question before that. It was indeed about the fees, but the most important question is actually what is being done about those long travel times. It's a concern that lives with policemen. I also said in my speech that it might lead to dangerous situations if you had to drive back to your house at night. Is that going to be dealt with now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u54	I'm not ready to do that immediately. This theme has been discussed in the formation process. Hence the deal. So I have to come back to it or other measures on top of that. I'll see if I can do it in second term, or else I'll do it in writing. Mrs Özütok spoke about the crime figures, a debate we have often had here. She asked whether they really are falling or whether it is a paper reality. We know from a number of sources that some forms of common crime are falling. One of the things you learn in research methods and scientific training is that if you have a number of sources that lead to the same result, there is a very good chance that they also show the reality. The sources we have for this are in addition to the number of returns themselves also public surveys. We have been asking people for a long time in a number of years whether they are themselves faced with burglary, abuse or other horrible things. You can see that the number of people who say yes to a question that you can just say yes or no to is decreasing over the years. A third signal is that in the case of crimes where insurance is in the picture, we also have figures from insurance companies; this is, of course, very strong in the case of home invasion and car theft. That source also shows a decrease. At the same time, other forms of crime have emerged over time. I went into that in my introduction. Cybercrime is very strong. In addition, the numbers have really increased significantly. It also applies to organised crime, for which fortunately there is much more attention from police, administrators and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Possibly because of the fact that there is more attention to it, that is historically difficult to figure out. This means that, in addition to the good news of the decline in a number of forms of crime, there are new forms that require a lot of attention. Mrs Özütok also asked about the concrete measures that have been taken. I have mentioned an overview of this. It also specifically addressed diversity policy. We also discussed it yesterday during Question Time. I wholeheartedly support the Chief Constable's commitment to 25% inflow with a diverse background. So that is both by ethnic origin and by type of training or type of professional background. Because no matter how valuable people with the traditional police academy background are, diversity is important for a healthy organisation. But also to tackle in particular some forms of new crime you need people with a different profile, in addition to the fact that a police that reflects society can act much more effectively in the various society that is the Netherlands. Mr Krol started with an example of an agent who would have said: don't report it, because nothing will happen to it. I cannot rule out saying such a thing, but I do regret it very much. The standard appointment with the police is that people are asked to report it, because it is necessary to be able to catch villains and to have developments in the type of crime in view. I can't rule out it happening, but I find it very undesirable. My call is always: people, keep pressing charges. Mr Krol asked about the BOLO that used to be broadcast by default after the news. The police make a lot of and like to use information from the public. I think even more than before. She will of course always examine how to keep your connection with as large a group as possible. The journal is very rarely viewed by people under 30. This means that the total number of viewers to these kinds of programs is decreasing. It will be replaced by new media. When you want reactions from the audience, it makes sense that you focus more on new media. I can't say I don't run into the police on TV either, because Searched is still a useful and widely watched program. Furthermore, I do not want to tell the police from the Binnenhof how to use broadcasting time or social media. One is truly man and woman enough to give oneself a sensible interpretation. Mr Krol asked about the policy of ZSM and home invasions. ZSM is a very useful instrument in itself. It's very valuable to get those who did it. Punishment, often linked to additional conditions such as treatment or compensation, is most effective if given as soon as possible. Home invasions often do not meet the criteria of ZSM. I can't completely rule out the possibility that a home burglary, if it's really a red tape, might come up, but that certainly won't be the case in a large part of the ZSM business. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you. One more question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u56	Perhaps the Minister tried to include the answer in, for example, answers to Mr Van Dam, but I asked a question about a very worrying sentence in the report that is the basis of today's debate. It talks about the gap that the basic teams would now drop because of 'the powerless criminal approach to organised crime'. That's what scares me. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of that sentence, and what he is going to do about it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr Van Oosten rightly points that out to me. He mentioned the page. That's an exorcism, a sigh of an interviewee. In recent years, as I pointed out to Mr Van Dam, we have made a considerable effort, both inside and outside the police, to tackle organised crime. This report shows that in the basic teams there is a feeling of: we see a lot but our signals are not being picked up properly. That's an important signal. I've already indicated that I don't think the recommendation is wise to move the detective work on organized crime to the base teams. But I do think it is crucial that the information from these basic teams should go further. For this reason, a number of improvements have been made. On some things, I say, let's wait and see the Chicken report. But there are really improvements here, because at the same time you want to retain the value of those basic teams.... wide employable people who can oversee the entire police work............................................................................................................................ But then they also need to be internally linked back to what happens with reports and that it really pays to provide that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u58	In this sense, it is reassuring to note that, fortunately, such a sigh of one of the authors of this report is being dealt with seriously. Very practically I still have a question: how do we concreteise now... Look, these base teams now apparently have that information as well. In my opinion, the basic teams would be quite free to play that information upstairs, to the detectives, to the state's attorney's office, who have to work on it. The Minister now says: it must be organised in this way, because that information must not be missed. How can I trust it to actually happen? If that neighborhood cop sees that, if that neighborhood cop finds out that the place isn't right, he's gonna have to put down that signal and then pick up that signal in the fight against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u59	This has partly to do with the ICT issue on which I went to Mr Van Dam. There is a lot going on in ICT, but the linking of the basic detection system is not yet as it should be. This also has a very human connection with the communication between district detectives and base teams. Let each other know what signals you pick up, what you do with them, so there's not a lost feeling that nothing happens to them. Sometimes you have to say openly: we have another matter that we attach so much importance to, that we are letting it go now. It's also part of open communication. But then you know why another case takes precedence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u60	I thought I had such a clear answer from the Minister, but the answer to Mr Van Oosten's question worries me a little. I hear the Minister say that if there are signals on the base team in the area of undermining, they need to be played up towards a RIEC and the police at district level or another level. This report says exactly that it creates a gap. I know how it works. Then we wait until there is something very big before we start to deal with it. The essence of the opinion of this report is: keep it small. If you see something small happening in a situation at the bakery or the café around the corner that reminds of undermining, make sure you deal with that in the team right away and make sure it doesn't get very big. I find the Minister's answer worrying. I see things grow up and then we're too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u61	There is now a contradiction that I do not see. It is very logical that the people in the base teams indicate: we see a lot of things. I spent a morning with a base team on an industrial property. That's where they showed me: look, things happen in this hallway. And while we were standing there, there was indeed a man with a moped riding with "what moths those cops here." It was very visual. It is then very crucial that the district police get through: things happen in this factory hall that can't stand the light of day, and we already know that boy that we often see there because he is involved in a coffee shop or another case. In order to tackle the underlying network, you generally need more extensive research. In general, you want to catch the big fish and not the little boy on the moped who does the executive work. It can then be very rational to let the moped drive for a while, because you are busy catching the client. I do not think that the recommendation made by the report to bring that type of investigation to the base teams is very sensible. The recommendation to ensure that this information flows through both the ICT route and the human route makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u62	But that then means that our strategy in the Netherlands to tackle undermining crime is that it needs to become big before it is tackled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u63	Well... Mr Van Dam is now starting to come up with one-liners. It's possible. But that's bullshit, of course. As a former officer, Mr Van Dam will not be surprised that at the moment of intervention and the place where you intervene, you always make a decision on what is of interest to the investigation. Then it may indeed be true that you sometimes let a small player go for a while because you are busy getting a bigger boss behind you. That can't be a whole new phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u64	Clear. I note that this is the end of the first term. Is there a need for a second term? Not with Mrs Helder, nor with Mr Van Dam, at Van Engelshoven, at Van Raak... Well, well, well. Mr Van Oosten does not make any sense anymore either, and I do not think that Mr Van Dijk does, Mrs Özütok does not... But Mr. Krol's like a young dog. He's got 28 motions on him, which he's about to recite. We have time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank my fellow Members for making their time available! I had four motions on me, but I can keep one in my pocket because I was impressed by the Minister's words about filing the report, which should always be possible. So I'm going to move that motion aside. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of police stations is falling in sparsely populated areas;]] [[Whereas reporting should be possible without thresholds preventing victims from reporting against their will;]] [[Whereas the visibility of the police is a preventive factor;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a standard of at least one police station, police station or police counter per municipality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-730]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u66	Then the second one. It's necessary, isn't it? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Safety and Justice Inspectorate is part of the Ministry of Security and Justice;]] [[Whereas this at least creates the appearance of a dependency relationship;]] [[Whereas independent research into problems and abuses is of added value;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an investigation into the usefulness and need of an independent inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u67	I note that this is rather far out of the order of the debate and has not been discussed either. I'm okay with everything, but I can think of 100 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u68	I mentioned it in my contribution. Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizens have an important role to play in providing information to the police for the purposes of investigation;]] [[Whereas the widespread disclosure of data on wanted criminals supports the police in the search and warns citizens of criminals;]] [[Whereas the television programme Investigation Requested may not always respond sufficiently to current events and the NeighborhoodApp has only a limited, local reach;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the editors of the investigation, to consider whether the police report can be returned on TV, supplemented by a version for the social media,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you. I shall suspend for a moment so that the Minister can take the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol's first motion, No. 730, asks the government to establish a standard of at least one police station, police station or police counter per municipality. Although Mr Krol and I approached each other with the observation that a police point at the town hall, for example, could also be a good way of putting it into practice, this motion is really too absolute. We have a number of very small municipalities in the Netherlands and also municipalities that are close to each other. Then I find it unwise for The Hague micromanagement to announce here that every municipality should have such a window. Really an unwise use of resources, and of people, because such a window also needs staffing. The Krol motion in part No. 731 calls on the government to launch an investigation into the usefulness and need of an independent inspection. That is a debate which is often held, and Mr Van Raak has pointed out this, but not really in this debate. Ministries have an independent inspection, so does my ministry. I do not therefore see any reason to investigate this. So I also advise against this motion. The Krol motion in part No. 732 calls on the government, in consultation with the editors of the Research Programme, to consider whether the police report can be returned on TV, supplemented by a version for social media. I heard suggestions for other TV programmes from the audience. There are regular suggestions for TV programmes in this Chamber. In this case, it relates to a specific programme, which had great value. In that sense, I also understand what Mr Krol is referring to. But I already indicated that I really don't want The Hague micromanagement of the way the police contact the public and of which part is on TV and which part is via other media. So I must also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u73	We are voting on these three motions by Mr Krol on Tuesday 26 September, because next week is Princess Day. I will suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we will talk about the weed drones in Limburg.
