ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the members of the Chamber who are going to take part in this debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the creation of the implant register to protect human health. Everyone can undoubtedly remember the PIP scandal of a number of years ago. Women were given inadequate breast implants, giving them serious health problems. These women turned out to be hard to trace. It is therefore a broad-based wish of the Chamber to create an implant register. The SP is very pleased that we can talk about this today and that it will actually be there. In our view, it is very important that patients who have received medical implants are traceable. If these implants are found to fail and/or cause health problems, they must be traceable. We are therefore pleased that we can discuss this today and that the register will be available. The question then perhaps is why we have asked for so much speaking time. That is because we have some additional questions, because we think it is a very important law. They're mostly in it if the Secretary of State wants to explain a little more. For example, we have a question about the timetable. Quite a lot of time has been lost in the creation of this implant register, because, as we have seen, it was first left to private parties. Can the Secretary of State give his views on why the government did not take direct control of this register? It is a good thing that all implants are eventually included in the register, but we are questioning the proposed phased introduction. Based on what data is it determined which implants are recorded earlier than others? Can the Secretary of State state state what happens if it fails with implants that have not yet been entered in the register? Is it true that healthcare providers need time to introduce the register or are there perhaps other interests involved, for example those of manufacturers or suppliers? We would like to see the Secretary of State shed his light on that. Who is it actually waiting for the register to arrive? What exactly are the interests on the table? We are also questioning the amendment of the law which provides that implants which are very unlikely to pose a risk to public health will be excluded from the obligation to register in order to reduce the administrative burden on healthcare professionals. Of course, the SP fully agrees that unnecessary bureaucracy should be abolished and certainly not rigged, but the question is to what extent this relates to patient safety. I would therefore like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. We also wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to reverse the amendment of this law and add the implants that may pose less risk to human health to the implant register. The SP is also concerned about the retention period of the files. It's now based on 15 years. The Secretary of State indicated that health care professionals could possibly keep the files for a longer period of time. However, this is not an obligation now. Can the Secretary of State say why he does not want to extend the retention periods of the files legally, given the effects of implants? After all, they often become known only after a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u3	That's what the CDA has to worry about. We see implants getting implanted more and more quickly. A period of 15 years is then actually short. Implants can stay in the human body for 30 years to 40 years. What solution is Mrs Marijnissen looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u4	That's a good question. I actually wanted to put the same question to the Secretary of State. We ourselves have considered extending the retention period. It could be. But perhaps that will have a lot of bureaucratic consequences. However, we can weigh the importance of this in relation to patient safety. Mrs Bruins Slot is, of course, quite right when she says that once again it has been shown that effects often come out after years. That is why my group believes that patient safety must be taken more seriously. Perhaps we should be creative in avoiding bureaucracy. We should be able to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u5	Creativity to circumvent bureaucracy is a good starting point, also because, of course, it is now stated in the law that every healthcare provider actually has that responsibility. For example, in UMC Utrecht, data on pelvic floor mats can be stored for up to 20 years up to 30 years, while in hospital Bronovo, in the west of the country, these data are not kept for so long. We're about to set up an implant registry, where you want that clarity. Then it would be a shame if things didn't go well in the back. So would it not be a good thing if we asked the Secretary of State to look for a generally-behaved solution where there is no more bureaucracy? I shall, of course, deal with this in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u6	Yes, I would very much like to join. I too would very much like to put that question to the Secretary of State. The SP is also concerned about healthcare providers who have implanted, but stop providing medical care. What happens, for example, if an emergency hospital goes bankrupt? Then how are the patients traced and summoned if a defective implant has been inserted? The Secretary of State replied to previous written questions on this subject that caregivers are obliged to transfer their data. Can he tell us how, and by whom? Who is responsible for ensuring that the necessary data are actually transferred at all times? And what happens, for example, if there is a healthcare provider in the financial difficulties and therefore he may not make any more effort or effort to trace the implants that have been inserted and call on the patients? How could we do that? I'd rather see that we prevent it. How would the Secretary of State suggest that this should happen? The Secretary of State also mentioned earlier that the healthcare providers have an effort obligation in this respect. However, my group felt that this was very non-binding. We therefore wonder whether this commitment should not simply become an obligation. That is what my group is asking the Secretary of State. And how's the inspection handling this? The Secretary of State stated in his reply that the inspection cannot enforce adequate registration of implant data without a further legal basis. We welcome the fact that this is now being dealt with. However, my group does not understand that it is unknown how often healthcare providers do not have the necessary information available, especially given that the issue of PIP implants was far from complete. We are very curious to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this. During the preparation of this law, the SP also asked questions about the capacity of the inspection. In our view, the Secretary of State has not yet given a full answer. Our main question here is whether the inspection has sufficient capacity to also monitor the way healthcare providers handle this implant registry. We believe that it is perhaps a missed opportunity in the legislative proposal before us that the creation of an implant register only controls healthcare providers and does not concern manufacturers. When we look back at the PIP breast implant scandal, it was clear that the manufacturer had also put the health and happiness of thousands of women at risk, just for gross monetary gain. Why is the Secretary of State waiting a little while when it comes to European legislation? That is probably not going to happen in the years to come, so leave those manufacturers out of the picture. How does the Secretary of State view this? I still have some questions about liability for defective implants. I would therefore welcome it if manufacturers and suppliers were held liable for implants that were not proper. Can the Secretary of State explain how this liability has now been shaped and why it has not been included in the bill we are discussing today? It is necessary for the tracing and summoning of patients to be properly informed prior to treatment. The Council of State has also drawn attention to this. In the legislative proposal, we are unclear about how patients are informed about health risks, their privacy and traceability in a situation where things go wrong. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? Furthermore, the SP supports the opinion of the Personal Data Authority to notify anonymised personal data as special personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, so that it is prevented that the storage of personal data only by healthcare providers makes the system vulnerable. The Council, too, has put this forward by the State. Can the Secretary of State make it clear why he does not want to take over this opinion and with this, in our view, is an important opinion in the wind? In the written preparation of this law, many parties have asked questions about the lack of the civil service number. Can the Secretary of State explain why he does not consider the use of the civil service number desirable and is he prepared to look at this? The Chamber has had to wait quite a long time for this register to be established. However, the Secretary of State may now seem to be taking the fast track and perhaps not looking carefully enough at the privacy aspects. We would like to point out that haste is rarely good. Why, if we're still building a register, don't take care of everything right away, so also take the privacy aspects well with us? By responding to the opinions of the Personal Data Authority and the Council of State, patients can be better traced and the register is less vulnerable. Please respond to these points. Skipr, the well-known healthcare news website, reported on 6 April that the European Parliament has adopted legal rules aimed at improving the quality, reliability and safe use of medical devices and diagnostic equipment in order to prevent scandals with breast implants and hip prostheses, for example. Can the Secretary of State clarify this new European legislation? How does it relate to what we are talking about today, the Dutch implant register? The SP welcomes the so-called entry of the implant register. It is a good step towards improving patient safety and protecting patients' health. Today, however, we have made a number of critical comments and asked questions, because we do not think that all the issues in this law are equally well regulated. We look forward to the Secretary of State's reply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u7	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. The turnout in the VVD Group may suggest that there is a lot of interest in this subject, but it could also mean something else, namely that there is a colleague who is going to make the maiden speech. Mr El Yassini, on behalf of the VVD Group, made his maiden speech. That means he can't be interrupted. Mr El Yassini, you have the privilege of saying what you want once. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mr. Chairman. My parents both worked in health care. That has formed an important part of me. I am not from the healthcare sector myself, but I have always been interested in this. It's that interest and affinity that made me ask in the distribution of portfolios to do the care. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to work for care because it affects something fundamental in the Netherlands: the health of all of us and the effects on the quality of life. That is why it is important that we talk today about the national implant register. It is important because problems with implants directly affect the health of Dutch people and affect the quality of life. Because it will happen to you: after a breast amputation due to breast cancer undergo a breast reconstruction and years later hear that a specific breast implant is harmful to your health. The uncertainty many women with breast implants face has a direct impact on their lives. These women rightly ask themselves: is my implant also dangerous for my health? Who will contact me if it turns out to be a problem? Maybe they forgot about me because my healthcare provider doesn't have the edge that my implants are part of that toxic batch? No one should have that uncertainty. Besides breast implants, these include people with an artificial knee, a new hip or a pacemaker. People with implants should be able to count on immediate action and adequate assistance in the event of problems with their implants. People should also be able to rely on their implants to be safe if no contact is sought with them. For these people, the national implant register offers a solution. The national implant register shows at a glance how many people have a specific implant and which healthcare providers need to take immediate action. It is important to consider the effects of new legislation and regulation in healthcare. Finally, we want legislation and regulation to be as efficient as possible, with a good balance between helping vulnerable people on the one hand and working care on the other. For the VVD, it is important that there is no directly or indirectly identifiable personal data in the registry, that the notification of the implants is included in the patient file in a way that allows for rapid traceability, that the care provider is obliged to provide the client concerned with data on implanted devices and that there is a uniform barcoding so that data are unambiguous, reliable and traceable. However, three questions remain open that I would like answered. The amendment of the law has been ready for plenary debate for some time, but it is only now on the agenda. That's why I have the following questions. The work continues and the General Measure of Management should be partly ready. Which categories are included in the AMvB? The entry into force of the legislative amendment is scheduled for mid-2018. The planning for the AMvB is mid-2017. That's right around the corner. This gives care providers about a year to prepare for the obligations set out in the legislative amendment. Is the AMvB indeed ready in mid-2017? If no, will the entry into force of the law remain in mid-2018? And if the moment of entry into force 2018 remains but the AMvB is left, do healthcare providers have enough time to make adjustments to the implant registry? The proposal for a registration system for medical devices was already discussed by my colleague Mr Marijnissen in the European Parliament last Wednesday. The Netherlands also wants to achieve uniform coding. Talks are now taking place with different parties. Can the Secretary of State state state what the state of play is with regard to that encryption? Are our developments in relation to the register parallel to European developments in this area? I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. The VVD is for a national implant register, where it insists that this is of course efficient read: with the help of that coding................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is important to have a register on which people can rely, with which their safety is guaranteed and with which, in case of problems, quick and correct action is taken. I'd like to close with a few personal words. It is a privilege for me to be here as a Member of Parliament, to be able to participate in this fantastic country. I'm grateful I get that chance. I want to stay in conversation with anyone who wants to build with us over the next few years to make this country even more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u9	Congratulations on your maiden speech. It wasn't to be heard that it was the first time. There will be much more, and I wish you every success in the future. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the Members present can congratulate you on this maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u10	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u11	Mr. Chairman. It is customary for the speaker to thank the previous speaker after a maiden speech. I'd be delighted to do that. I listened with great interest to Mr El Yassini. It's obvious he's very fond of this wallet. He asked for it himself, so we expect a lot from him. I congratulate him most warmly on his speech just now. We will often have the debate here. We have seen a number of years ago, as has already been said by others, how many implants can sometimes go wrong. Everyone remembers the PIP implants. If things go wrong like this, it's important that we can track everyone down. My group is therefore pleased that we are discussing today the national registration system for medical devices, better known as the national implant register. The purpose of this bill is to be able to track clients when complications or hazards occur, to explain and standardise the registration in the patient file on implants and to give the IGZ, the Health Care Inspectorate, more tools to take action if there are complications. D66 supports these objectives. I believe it is important, like the Secretary of State, to increase patient safety. My group, like the previous speakers, still has a few questions about the implementation of this law. In the written round, other groups also asked about the scope of the law. Implants differ from pacemakers and breast implants to soluble sutures, staples and screws. Some implants may pose a higher risk, while others have already shown that the risk of complications is low. The scope has not yet been crystallised and subsequently follows in a General Measure of Governance. The Minister indicated earlier that he would like to have discussions with relevant professional groups in order to examine which implants should or should not be covered by this law. I can imagine that not all implants need to be registered. How far are these calls? Can the Secretary of State indicate when we can expect this AMvB if the intended start of the implant register is in mid-2018? Clarity is also necessary for the profession. This bill also requires something from healthcare providers and healthcare providers. They need to record a number of data for all implants inserted into the client file, but one thing is not clear to me. We want to prevent this bill from increasing the regulatory burden. The Minister has indicated earlier that she wants to investigate this. When's that gonna happen? Does this happen prior to the implementation of the law or as soon as the law enters into force? And at what time can the Court receive an initial analysis of this? I have another question about the provision of information to the clients and the patients. In the first instance, the healthcare provider is the link in the system. The KNMG realizes that doctors have an important role in this and has a clear position. The doctor himself should be responsible for the transfer of documentation if his own practice no longer exists. But I read that the clients themselves get the information that is included in the implant register, so that they can direct themselves and look up things. This could, as it is said, be done in the Personal Health Surroundings, the PGO, but it does not yet exist. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about that. Is the PGO ready for mid-2018? If not, I'd like to hear how clients can direct themselves and how they are kept informed as the healthcare provider who provided an implant. I say "implementate" all the time because we always talk about "implementing" here in the jargon, of course, but today it's about implants. As a member of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I have a final question about the privacy of clients. Questions were also raised in the written round. I must say that the answers were quite clear, but just to be safe, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether it is true that personal data is definitely not included in the national register. Can the Secretary of State also undertake that sensitive, medical information from clients will not be understood by anyone other than the treating physician?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u12	Mr. Chairman. This evening we have the first debate on curative care with the Chamber in its new composition. I congratulate Mr El Yassini on his maiden speech, which was passionate. There is a little warning for this committee of women, but I can assure him that every gentleman has always been welcome in our company, even this Secretary of State. So don't be afraid! We are talking tonight about the implant register to protect patients' health, and that is necessary. Not only do we pay, according to the Intrakoop report last week, millions too much for implants in the Netherlands, often they are not safe either. The latter is actually worse than the first. As a patient, you should be able to rely on the product that is inserted into you to be safe and of good quality. However, there is still a world to be won. For example, the medical journal British Medical Journal reported that of the 390 implantable medical devices that came on the market between 2005 and 2010, 27% were wrong. At more than a quarter so; that is very much and very worrying. It goes wrong in all kinds of disciplines. There were leaking PIP breast implants, loose screws in prosthetics, and problems with pelvic bottom mats and placing stents. And that's just what we know from the media. I'm worried about that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to improve the testing procedures for medical devices? How does he see the opportunities for improvement? If years, sometimes decades later, show that certain implants involve risks, patients cannot all be traced because registration is not well organised. Fortunately, a national register started in 2017. We are pleased with that, but we still have a number of questions about it. It seems to me that you technically regulate the traceability of implants through uniform bar coding. In 2010, the VWS Minister said to my colleague Gerbrands that she wanted to leave this to the field. I think that's weird. It seems to me that you need a uniform bar encoding to make this law amendment practical. Isn't that what you have to include in this law? A uniform barcoding is not what the Minister means in the explanatory memorandum by "the unique indication of the implant." In this connection, I am talking about Minister, because the Minister signed the Chambers. So the Minister does not talk about uniform barcoding but about "the unique indication of the implant." Under 4.1 of the explanatory memorandum, the Minister states that a unique identification code, the UDI, is being negotiated in Brussels, but one line further states that "joint agreements with interested parties are being worked on at national level to introduce uniform coding of medical devices." So it's left to the field. What's with this rip-off? Why this complexity? Why not a mandatory uniform bar encoding for all medical products? What makes it so complicated is that the Minister under 4.2 requires six things to be included in the implantation register: the name of the manufacturer, the product name, the product type, a series or lot number, the date of implantation or explantation and the healthcare provider. Surely this could be much simpler with a uniform bar encoding? And if the Secretary of State doesn't think so, can he explain that to me? Furthermore, we have the question of whether there is a kind of Lareb........................................................................................................................................................................... If not, is it desirable for it to come? How else do the complaints about implants find their way to the register? Under 4.2, the Minister writes: "The obligation to provide the data on implanted implants and the clients concerned rests on the healthcare provider." She also writes: "The starting point is that all implants covered by this bill should be recorded in the national implant register in a traceable manner." Under 4.3 we read: "The IGZ has access to the data from the registry to gain insight into the number of clients involved and so that they can be traced through the healthcare provider or care provider." We also read under 5: "In the event of possible risks or signs of health damage, the IGZ contacts the healthcare provider concerned and calls on him to track down the client and take the necessary actions to prevent the health risk or to reduce or repair the health damage." Under 7 we read: "This redirection cannot take place in a direct sense, because there is no "direct identifying data" such as name, address, date of birth." Ergo, under 7, the Minister is convinced that the traceability of personal data does not require the entry of personal data in the register. In point 7, however, it points to Article 454 of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, which ensures that an aid worker who stops his practice takes appropriate measures to ensure that his files are kept correctly when he is unable to take care of them himself. It also refers to the position of the KNMG Medical Federation entitled Transfer of patient records after absence of the doctor without follow-up. Here I come to my point: it therefore does not think it is necessary to have a legal provision on the basis of which it, the Minister, or the Secretary of State as the holder of the register, should be allowed to process personal data. Still, I can't quite figure this out. We all want to guarantee privacy, but how is the healthcare provider going to identify the patients who moved decades later, switched doctors or hospitals or perhaps even emigrated? Under 4.3, the Minister writes: "The bill provides for the creation of a current, complete and correct data on the implants covered by the law, which will be managed by the Minister of VWS." It also points to the need for a legal link in point 4.2. I understand the Minister's wish, but how can she live up to it? Research shows too often that files are not kept up-to-date and not kept up-to-date. And didn't the Chamber correctly conclude through the ICT survey that links are vulnerable? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it should be possible for patients to check for themselves whether there are problems with their implants, and, if so, how will he achieve that? Is there also an end date on which all implants are in the register? I have another point about the retention period, which was the subject of an interruption debate between the CDA and SP spokesmen. I still think that the retention period should be until the date of explantation or until the death, because it has become part of someone's body. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that, too. Finally, I come to the letter of amendment on administrative burdens. I think he's a little weird. I wonder if the Secretary of State can give an indication of this. Which implants are excluded from the register? Shouldn't all the individual products be provided with a uniform barcoding, because it has been shown earlier that such a uniform barcoding can not only prevent many medical misses, we read last week that it is 68 deaths, but can also reduce the administrative burden by some EUR 120 million? My final question concerns the exceptional cases in the letter of amendment. With a small product, can't something be wrong? Something serious could be wrong with that, couldn't it? How will the Secretary of State assess in that General Measure of Management what is a small product or what is a product that should not enter that register? Again, it seems unwise to me. I think all the loose products in the care should be covered by that uniform bar encoding. We've been arguing for that for a long time, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u13	Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA Group, has the floor on this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr El Yassini on his maiden speech. It's good to hear how he's already standing here with confidence and wants to work on a more beautiful country. What better way to do that in the field where Mr El Yassini's parents have already worked, the care? It's nice to see the son following in the footsteps of the parents with this subject. The drama with the 24,000 breast implants is in front of the Chamber and also of me. There was no record, women had to deal with leaking breast implants and the health effects were high. In this Chamber, therefore, the desire has arisen to register implants in the context of patient safety. After all, we are not only talking about breast implants, but also about the pelvic floor mats and metal-to-metal hips. For example, we can mention some examples of implants that have really serious adverse effects on people's health. The CDA therefore supports this implant register and also the proposal to develop it step by step. We still have a few questions about the impact. In the written reply, the State Secretary writes that the bill concerns all implants and that no implant is excluded in advance. The reason for this is that it can never be said with complete certainty that an implant or a particular implant badge will not cause any problems in the future, no matter how long and how wide the implants have proven themselves in practice. However, he is now going to arrange for implants whose risks are very low to be excluded from registration; several colleagues have already asked questions about this. From the point of view of feasibility and the creation and maintenance of support for the register, can I follow that in itself, but can the Secretary of State indicate whether his intention is that the register should contain all the implants? If not, how does he intend to make the distinction if an implant is relatively low risk? Mrs Agema asked a relevant question at the end of her speech: how do you establish that? Sometimes the smallest things can cause problems and sometimes some things only lead to harmful health effects after 10, 15 or 20 years. Another issue is that, according to Article 454, third paragraph of Book 7 of the Civil Code, healthcare professionals are obliged to keep medical records for at least 15 years; I have already had an interruption debate with Mrs Marijnissen. In addition, caregivers should keep data for more than 15 years if they consider it necessary in the context of good health care. This depends, of course, on the assessment of the individual health care provider. This means that data on implants in one hospital have been kept in the medical records for more than 15 years but that this does not have to be the case in another hospital or independent treatment clinic, because the healthcare provider has made a different assessment. The variation resulting from this, the CDA finds it undesirable, because we are not setting up an implant register for nothing. We set that up, because we want to give people the assurance that if something goes wrong later, she and also the caregivers will be able to find all those implants. After 20 or 30 years, it may still be important to know which implants have been implanted and which medical data are involved. So we would like this to be dealt with in a clear way. However, the question is how to deal with this, because we all do not want to unnecessarily increase bureaucracy and the huge registration burden. So I actually have some kind of choice menu for the Secretary of State. I think we should take a step in this respect and see if we can do this for more than 15 years, but the question is how. At first I was working on an amendment because I thought: I am going to deal with this right away in this law and we are going to record it for 40 years. Then you run into the question if that's the most convenient way to do this. After all, there may also be certain implants which are used very early, but which are actually only used for a maximum of ten years anyway. So I have that amendment ready, but first I ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of that idea. There is also another solution. The Secretary of State stated in the note following the report that he is preparing an amendment to the relevant article of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act in the Civil Code. In doing so, he wants to extend the retention period in general. What time limit is that? Perhaps that bill could also cover the retention period of implants. It has to be a real choice menu, because choosing between two things is always too easy. So we can do a third thing, on which I might like to table a motion. How did these retention periods come into being? The Health Council gave an opinion on this in 2004. The government first had ten years, and then in 2004 the Health Council issued the opinion to make it 15 years. Could we not ask the Health Council to issue a new opinion on implants on the basis of the 2004 study? After all, the Health Council has previously conducted research into patient data in the broad sense. Perhaps it would be wise, within the framework of this implant register, to present this specific question to the Health Council: is the deadline now set in the Civil Code really long enough, or will we have to make an exception for a number of categories of implants? That is my preferred solution, because I also understand what Mrs Marijnissen is saying. Care is burdened by bureaucracy, so you should not increase that bureaucracy unnecessarily. How can we do this in the best possible way? The uniform barcoding has been mentioned by several groups, including the VVD. The European obligation for manufacturers to apply a unique device identification, a uniform bar coding, to an implant, will only apply from 2021. Can the Secretary of State explain why such a long transitional period is needed? How does this relate to the implementation of the uniform barcoding, which is likely to take place in the Netherlands in 2019? Implants implanted abroad are not kept in the register. The Minister writes that a possible European register has been put on the agenda by the European Commission and the International Medical Device Regulators Forum. Can the Secretary of State state indicate the status of such a register and what period of time are there likely to be proposals for the establishment of such a European register? Is the Secretary of State himself in favour of such a register? If so, has he been in contact with the European Member States? I'll come to a conclusion. This afternoon, I tabled an amendment to refer to this law for its own assessment. This has to do with the fact that the letter of amendment has, in fact, come to an implementation of this bill step by step, with quite a few things still to be done. The answers to our questions also indicate that there is still work to be done. For this reason, in five years' time, the CDA seems right to choose to look at the actual impact of this law and whether the goals we have set together, including in terms of privacy, D66's argument, have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u15	This brings to an end the first term of office. After the suspension, we will continue with the first term on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u16	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. It was discussed before: he replaces the Minister of VWS. She is currently working on other important issues, which may include the future of the new Dutch cabinet. That's why the Secretary of State keeps tabs on the Minister's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u17	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would also like to congratulate Mr El Yassini on his maiden speech. I wish him every success in this special committee. I agree with Mrs Agema that it is always a celebration to speak in this committee. This is also a bit of my maiden speech on this file, so I assume that Members will not interrupt me today. I sometimes have hope that does not always come true. This is an important bill. In many ways, this fulfills a long-cherished wish. Since the Björk-Shiley heart valves, which turned out to be inadequate in the 1980s, to the PIP breast implants in 2012, we have taken steps to show that it is not just a wish to register defects in implants. That registration is important. Maybe it's even more important to track them. Many Members of the Chamber have also raised this point. In the coming years, too, the challenge will be to fulfil this wish in an ambitious and realistic way. Ambitious in terms of the greatest possible registration and tracing of implants. Realistic in terms of feasibility and feasibility. Doesn't it lead to major administrative burdens? Some Members have rightly pointed this out. I am convinced that the Minister has found that balance with this bill. Over time it has to be found again and again, of course, as we know more and other implants will come. We can also build on experience gained. Since 2015, there has been an implant register, which is filled from four quality registers of the scientific associations. Let me also say at this point that it is fantastic that these associations have started these registers on a voluntary basis. They have been an important basis for achieving one of the foundations of this legislation. It's a good thing that legal basis is in place. Mrs Marijnissen was right to point that out. It's taking away the no strings attached to it. Only together can a number of obligations ensure the necessary traceability of implants. Let me mention the four obligations in the law. Firstly, the Minister of VWS is given the obligation to manage an implant registry. Secondly, caregivers are given the obligation to make a record of some specific data when implanting in the patient file, so that the implant can be traced at a later stage. Thirdly, caregivers are given an obligation to provide information in writing to the patient. That's important. That doesn't have to be in a personal health environment, but at least they have to do it in writing. Hopefully, more digital environments can be used later. Fourthly, healthcare providers are given the obligation to provide the registered data to the implant registry, to which only the IGZ has access. If there is a suspicion of a defect, the registry can identify the extent of the problem and identify the healthcare providers who have inserted the implants. The register shall not contain any personal data. So I can confirm that this is not about the sensitive medical information that should only be available between doctor and patient. Mr El Yassini asked for that. However, the healthcare providers are known to the IGZ. They can be traced and encouraged because of their obligation to trace implants. The obligations of the bill mean that it will not be able to trace people in the past. This was the case with the PIP affair when it appeared that it was not clear which women carried these implants, which prevented them from being traced in time. A number of Members have said that it has taken a long time. That's right. The bill requires adjustments from almost everyone. Healthcare providers need to take care of their records differently. Caregivers need to register. Data should be provided differently and the product codes should be looked at on all the products available. We're gonna need registration at the source. There were European negotiations on the new regulation: was it time or not? Think also of the privacy legislation and bar coding; I will come back to that later. It has indeed taken a long time to find out what was the best course to sail. In addition, it took time to obtain sufficient support from parties, so that it is not only legal and regulatory, but can also be implemented in practice. I think that this legislative proposal is also a real catalyst that is very well aligned with the field and that this bill, with all the discussions that are taking place on it, can fortunately count on a lot of support. When the entry into force of the new legislation is in fact scheduled for 1 July 2018, I will come back to this later on in a specific way.This is based on an agreement with the occupational groups about the implants with which you can start well in terms of patient safety and which are also very easily traceable and recordable. Just say: the highest risks as feasible and in terms of the desired solution. I am pleased to report that we have also had discussions today with the Federation of Medical Specialists and the IGZ. We have considered whether we agree on the risk assessment and whether we could come forward in time with an overview of the implants that can be registered at the start, thus enabling traceability. I am pleased to note that the assessment of all parties is that this will succeed before that time and that a good start can be made. That survey shows a lot of used vascular implants, stents and neuro- and brain stimulators. I'll come back to that later. So I think we could make a very good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u18	Can I understand from the words of the Secretary of State that the AMvB can be ready by mid-year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u19	Yeah, I'm assuming so. Mr El Yassini asked for sufficient time for implementation. That is very important, because there is still a lot to be done. Everything is aimed at getting that AMvB ready at the end of the second quarter so that it can go to the Chamber. Members will then be able to look at the starting situation and in this way the Chamber will also be able to assess it. At the same time, we have sufficient implementation time until 1 July 2018. In addition, we will promote the completion of the study on the quantitative interpretation of the control pressure effects at that start-up situation. A number of members therefore asked and Mrs Dijkstra specifically asked about the scope. This allows the list that will then be available to be included in the AMvB and can then be offered for consultation on the field. I imagine that I will keep the Chamber informed about the progress and content of the AMvB. As I said, there is still a lot of work to be done. We will accompany the professions and remove possible obstacles. We will also appoint a driver, a doctor who has the confidence of the sector. On the one hand, we can assess the risk assessment and, on the other hand, look at the feasibility. This driver will be above the parties and will monitor progress at administrative level and, where necessary, speed it up. Wherever possible, we strive for customization and interconnection of systems as long as our own systems are not yet in order. If necessary, the data can also be delivered to the IGZ via other constructions, e.g. a web portal. There has indeed been talk of a uniform barcode. Mrs Agema is of course right: if all these products had a uniform barcoding, it would be much easier to implement them in all kinds of systems. I'm afraid it's not that far. We in Europe are in the process of achieving uniform product coding. We are indeed striving to achieve as much coding as possible by means of national agreements which will be compatible with European legislation. I learned that you should actually say that those products and implants should be bleepable. That just means you can use a scanner to see what they're like. So that doesn't mean you can't talk about it anymore, because they'd be bleepable. So we try to connect to ongoing routes with registration at the source. There are already a number: the building blocks of the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres (NFU), the national agreements on the uniform bar coding, the program of the NWZ and the unique device identifier (UDI) from the new European regulation. So we are trying to look at what is coming as far as possible, but we are also trying to make national agreements in order to achieve uniform coding as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u20	I can remember a lively debate between Mr Gerbrands and Mr Schippers on uniform bar coding in 2010, so that was a long time ago. Minister Schippers then agreed to leave that to the field. Now we've gone a long way. I understand that from one moment to the next you can't equip every caregiver with a scanner, bleep, bleep, and everything is going to be fine, but I don't like that waiting for Europe either. That's gonna take 20 years, too. We have recently seen studies showing that there were 48 unnecessary deaths that could have been avoided with the uniform barcoding. My question to the Secretary of State is whether we should wait for Brussels or if the Netherlands should take the lead and do it. Not only can it prevent these deaths and medical failures, but it could also give a total of EUR 120 million in administrative burdens, as the Central Planning Office has calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u21	Mrs. Agema is right about that. At European level, we are working on this uniform coding. It will be clear that these products are produced at European and sometimes worldwide level. It will therefore be very difficult to reach those agreements. In the light of this bill and its implementation, we also need to make national agreements, and we are working to achieve as much uniformity as possible in the Netherlands in order to be able to use that coding. I agree with Mrs Agema. We need to work in Europe to ensure that it becomes as uniform as possible. This is very difficult, because it is all companies that are working at European and global level. That's what Europe is for. Under this law, we already consider whether we can meet nationally with manufacturers to encode as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u22	What I don't understand is that there is a cigarette factory in Groningen, where a million packets of cigarettes are made a day, with hundreds of different recipes. Each package of that million has a unique barcode, so that up to and including the plantation can be traced where the tobacco comes from. Then I think: if that is possible in the cigarette industry, why can't it be done in the health care sector? Why don't we just start as the Netherlands? I understand it can't happen overnight, but we're not gonna wait for Europe, like I said. We are a top country in this respect, with our top care, and we can do that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u23	I agree with Mrs Agema. For this reason, we are making as far as possible agreements with the manufacturers active in the Netherlands. I would point out that there are other manufacturers who do not work in this country. This requires European agreements to achieve uniform bar codes. She's right. In fact, the same applies to this bill. If we were to succeed in registering this bill so that we can trace to the patient if there is something wrong, in order to intervene, that is indeed a feature of a top country in the field of health care, which I am proud of. That uniformity of barcodes is going to be an enormous help to bring efficiency to the barcodes. So I very much agree with Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u24	Why does Europe need such a long transitional period until 2021? Mrs Agema is right to speak about all kinds of other sectors. Within the Defense Department, tracking and tracing and uniform bar encoding are already standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u25	That is because European mills sometimes do not grind as quickly as national mills. We sometimes have something to complain about at national level. But make no mistake about how many implants there are. There are thousands of implants, from many different manufacturers, in many different forms. A great deal of consultation is needed in order to achieve some uniformity, with all kinds of interests involved. As far as I am concerned, it is not about those interests, it is about getting the best possible coding. If you want to come to coding at European level, and perhaps even wider, with all those implant manufacturers, I can imagine that it is not regulated in a curse and a sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u26	The other side is that this discussion has not only been going on in the Netherlands, but also on a broader scale for ten years. It's not a new discussion. Four more years have now been put on top of that in Europe. Does the Secretary of State see any chances of speeding up? It has actually been shown that this promotes people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u27	In the contacts we have in Europe, this is an ongoing discussion. The Minister has repeatedly urged her European colleagues to reach further agreements and standardisation. It's just that things aren't going as fast as we'd like. To conclude my general introduction: I am convinced that the legislative proposal before us represents an incredibly important step in further improving patient safety. Given the broad support of the field, which I am pleased with, I am confident that the implementation will be feasible as of 1 July 2018, despite the fact that there is still a lot of work to be done. I now come to the specific questions. I notice that I often say "implementate," but I'll keep an eye on it. That is actually because we want to introduce it very quickly. I'll practice on "implant." I think I have already answered the question as to why it took a long time. Mrs Marijnissen asked why we did not fully accept the opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. During the drafting of the legislative proposals, we asked for advice. Then, as far as personal data is concerned, we assumed that it would not concern personal data if you encrypted them and had a national register. However, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has said that it will still be personal data. We then looked for a more principled way, with which we can ensure that there is no personal data at all in the national register. This is an even better solution from the point of view of privacy. So we have chosen a very good, more fundamental line to further protect privacy. The same goes for the bsn. That would bring the privacy point back into the national register. I think that with the variant that we now have, namely to leave the information in the relationship between healthcare provider and patient, we have found an optimal mix between registration, traceability to healthcare providers and the responsibility that healthcare providers have as a good care provider. The medical records will show what implant it is. This way, we can start tracing. Mrs. Marijnissen asked who's still waiting. Are there any other interests? It's not waiting for anyone. We just have to get to work. We must all have the same interest, namely patient safety. I've made sure everyone wants to cooperate on that point. There are, of course, questions about implementation. The doctors say make sure it's "bleepable" as much as possible. Make sure the ICT systems are good. Make sure that the barcode can be used as much as possible at national level. However, I do not want to wait for anyone; I want to introduce this as soon as possible. Mrs Marijnissen also asked whether there could be a frontier in advance. What implants wouldn't it apply to? I don't have that limit. This bill is about the possibility to arrange it for all implants. We choose a pragmatic path, from the point of view of patient safety and short-term feasibility. However, nothing is excluded. It is true that there is also a debate in Europe on whether this should apply to everything. Mrs. Agema asked about it, too. We have to look at that. I imagine some things don't have to have such a heavy regime. Think of staples and sutures. In addition, however, what Mrs Agema said also applies, namely that small things can also be dangerous. Even then, you want to be able to trace if it goes wrong. The law assumes that anything can happen. At AMvB we can set limits, at the start or in the course of the process. However, we are not going to rule things out beforehand. That's the line we chose. It has been asked whether the inspection has sufficient capacity to maintain the implant register. We asked this explicitly to the inspection and the answer is yes. So I would like to repeat this once again. Furthermore, the retention period has been requested. It is true that there is a retention obligation for fifteen years in principle. The law also states that a longer retention obligation must be observed in so far as this results from the provision of good assistance. Looking at the pragmatism, Mrs. Agema mentioned that you have implants that last a long time and that last a shorter time and she wondered if you should take care of this specifically. I actually think this is the approach. In the Civil Code there is now a deadline of fifteen years and in fact it demands from healthcare professionals: finetune this on the kind of implant you have. Some things you need longer and some shorter, and that may not be taken into account in the Civil Code. So jumping to conclusions: I think that differentiation is necessary. Mrs Bruins Slot has suggested that, given the fact that the Civil Code regulates a period plus a differentiation option, the Health Council should ask to see if there is more clarity to be achieved, with the knowledge and skills that the various occupational groups of the implants have. I will come back to that later, but I think that is a valuable suggestion in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u28	I actually had a question about the previous point but also about this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u29	Jump, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u30	Could the Secretary of State add to that request the option of imposing the retention obligation for the period during which the implant is part of the body? One is five years and the other fifteen years. One product stays in place for a lifetime and the other product does not. Shouldn't it be that as long as the implant is part of the body, the registration data is available? Something can leak after twenty years or a screw can loosen up and you have to know what you've had in your body all this time. Then there's the other point. The Secretary of State actually said very easily: with a small product something may also be wrong. My question on this, of course, was raised in the context of the AMvB, which states that simple implants may not need to be covered by this law. In my first term, I asked what products we are actually talking about, which are not covered by the law by the AMvB. Can he give examples of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u31	For example, you should think of sutures that are used in surgeries or staples that are sometimes used to close a wound, which is strictly then a bit of an implant. I've tried to point out that we're not ruling anything out right now. This law says we're gonna do it wide with the implants. Then we go to AMvB to arrange what we start with. That can also spread. Nothing's been ruled out. If we in Europe get a little more insight into what is being thought about in medical science, we could eventually find out what things you would not have to include in that regime because it is not unsafe or there have been no complications or that you have had long-standing experience with it and the registration burden is actually greater than what you achieve with it. So the law doesn't rule it out. We can decide on that with each other, and that's what we'll do in that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u32	Mrs Agema had asked a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u33	I did ask two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u34	Exactly. This concerns her suggestion that this question should be included in the consultation request to the Health Council. That's what I'm here for; let's do that. Furthermore, the question has been asked whether the patient himself can take action in case of abuses surrounding his or her implant. There are two issues on the agenda. On the one hand, we want very actively to ensure that when a recall is needed, action is taken by the healthcare provider himself, whether or not indicated by the inspection or otherwise. On the other hand, the patient receives from his healthcare professional all the data on his implant. So if something were to happen, you could do it two ways. On the one hand, there are the actions taken by the government, which carry out the inspection together with the healthcare providers, and on the other hand there is the information that patients get in advance about their implant and about the characteristics of that implant. So I think that's how the patient's direction is secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u35	In this context, I had asked another question. The intention of the law is to be able to track people when something is wrong. From provider to system that is very clearly regulated, but from system to patient I miss a link. These are questions if: what happens if the patient has moved, changed from healthcare provider or doctor, or maybe even emigrated? I don't see that way back in the pieces I've read.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u36	If there is a defect and if it is known to the healthcare providers who put the implants, it is the duty of the healthcare providers to track the patients. That is possible; they can do so by means of the bsn. The inspection cannot do that, because it does not have the personal data, but the healthcare provider does have that data, in the file. The healthcare provider may request data from the Basic Registration Persons. By the way, this is regulated in the model authorisation hospitals, of the National Institute for Identity Data. On the basis of the bsn contained in the file, it is possible to trace the location of the person by means of the basic registration. I do not think it is necessary to include additional obligations in this law on that point. Mrs Marijnissen asked how the patient was informed about the health risks. It is already the case that the healthcare provider has a duty to inform the patient about the treatment and the risks associated with it, including the risks that may be associated with an implant. Therefore, the patient is also informed in writing about the implant. This is a good way of ensuring that information is provided. As long as the personal health environment is not ready, the patient will be informed by this route. I say this in response to Mrs Dijkstra's question. If a doctor is considering stopping his practice, he has an obligation to ensure a proper transfer of patients' files. That position is also expressed by the KNMG Medical Federation. This is not a new position, but it has existed since 2005. This means that the patient records should be kept carefully even after the doctor leaves. That's standard practice in the medical profession. Moreover, this bill does not regulate the retention or transfer of files, as this has been regulated in other places for a number of years. I think that Mrs Marijnissen's questions on manufacturers have already been dealt with. I am also trying to make agreements at national level to establish uniform barcoding in anticipation of EU legislation. I'm optimistic about that, I say with caution. I aim to see that we can achieve some results for national agreements on bar coding this spring. That would be very nice. I'm optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u37	I have another supplementary question about the manufacturers, or perhaps I missed something. We experience a lack of this law, namely that if the manufacturer goes wrong, the manufacturer is the cause of the distress, just to point it out, for example in the case of the PIP implants........ is not directly liable. Can the Secretary of State shed his light on this? How does he see this? We want to deal with the suffering at source.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u38	This is, of course, a combination of the rules applicable to implants, product safety requirements and sometimes European or national rules. This will be the framework within which a manufacturer may or may not be called upon to do so. The better we manage to strengthen patient safety requirements for implants at European level, the greater the liability of manufacturers if something is wrong; that will be clear. I think that's the way we should go. We need to ensure that manufacturers also have safety requirements and labels at European level so that, if something goes wrong, we can not only trace them, but also appeal to manufacturers for possible negligence if the product does not meet the product requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u39	It is good to hear that, because the SP does not want to go down the road in which that action also falls to the affected individual. We do not want you to have to go after a manufacturer yourself if you have all that suffering from an implant that is wrong with it. We therefore very much welcome the fact that we are considering how we can also regulate the liability of manufacturers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u40	We agree on that. I come to the questions of the VVD. I think we have talked enough about the AMvB and the list to be developed. I see that the starting situation is possible at the end of the second quarter, so that we can start with the whole process and also have enough time to arrive at a good starting list. The AMvB will list the categories that we start with and there will be enough time for the sector to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u41	I have a quick question. The Secretary of State says the AMvB should be ready by the end of the second quarter. That is, of course, looking into the future and there can never be guarantees that it is absolutely finished. The AMvB could be ready a little later, but of course there is already a list of categories on which it has already been agreed that they will be part of the AMvB to be realized. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the healthcare providers in particular of the categories that can already be included in the list in the event that the AMvB subsequently appears and shifts to the third quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u42	Sure. In fact, we are in very close consultation with the Federation of Medical Specialists and the healthcare providers to ensure that this list also has a basis in terms of the question: what are the categories most suitable for it given patient safety and what can we really start with? That way, before we make that AMvB, everyone already knows what the list will be. This will also contribute to rapid implementation. I also understand Mr El Yassini's question. I think he's right about that. We shall therefore do so as soon as the professions agree on the list. We can anticipate that in advance. A question has been asked about uniform coding. We've already talked about that. We are trying to arrive at previous insertions in anticipation of EU legislation through national agreements, and we are aiming at signing this spring. So I have good hope that we will be able to make further agreements on uniform coding at national level this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u43	Do I therefore understand that developments are parallel and that we are not going to have a situation in which, with the Dutch manufacturers, we have achieved a Dutch uniform barcoding, but when the European directives are being implemented, suddenly find that we need to change our direction, so that a lot of money has to be spent and there is an increase in the burden on manufacturers, because they have to reinvent the wheel again? Are these things really parallel? Does this also mean that they can be taken over one-on-one and that a new uniform barcode should not be invented again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u44	That is always exciting, but that is, of course, the intention. We are, of course, trying to match the national agreements with the developments that are taking place in Europe. At the same time, I would say, perhaps a little reassuring, that at this stage, manufacturers too, of course, are not making national agreements which they believe will be different internationally. That will indeed have to be a parallel process as much as possible, so that we do not get any hiccups in it when we have to change those agreements again when we come to European agreements. We are one of them ourselves, and the manufacturers are one of them. So we will keep a very close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u45	I see Mr El Yassini is getting up again. You will find that sometimes it is better to stand by the interrupting microphone. We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u46	I can tell, but it's good for the movement. What are the Secretary of State and the Ministry doing towards Europe to fight for the product to be exported to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u47	There's no need for an interruption in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u48	That is not a regulation, it is just an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u49	I'd like to look at it again from odds. Of course, it may also be the case that we agree with the Dutch manufacturers on uniform barcoding and that we can be a beacon of light in Europe, so that we can serve as an example of how it could possibly be implemented in the rest of Europe. This would also mean that manufacturers can more or less already foresee that the Dutch version will also be widely implemented in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u50	I have just responded to this in response to Mrs Agema. As far as I am concerned, we are at the forefront of this, at the risk of taking risks, but with the advantage that everyone can follow us. If we succeed in making good agreements at national level, I think we can be an example of speeding up the path in Europe. I very much agree with Mr El Yassini and, by the way, with Mrs Agema, with whom I have just discussed this. Mr El Yassini asked if the AMvB could be ready by mid-2017. That is indeed my strong intention, so that the healthcare providers can have sufficient time to prepare. Mrs Dijkstra specifically asked when the Chamber could find anything about the regulatory burden. I've touched that point for a while. It is intended that the survey will be completed before the summer, so that we can also indicate the control pressure effects in the discussion of the AMvB. We can make that point part of the debate when we talk about the AMvB. For the legal history it is indeed good to explicitly confirm that besides the treating doctor no other person has access to sensitive medical data. Yes, I can confirm that. There are no personal data in the register. The data remain in the patient file and are indeed subject to medical professional secrecy. This ensures optimal data protection. I think that I have provided a sufficient answer to the questions that have been asked, including by Mrs Agema, about whether or not to exclude the small implants. The AMvB is expandable to the final image. We don't rule anything out in advance unless we think it wouldn't be in balance. The same applies to the uniform bar encoding. We have also talked enough about European legislation, I think. I think the questions on this point have been answered. Finally, I come to Mrs Bruins Slot's questions. A European register is being discussed in Europe. This is already in contact with the European Council. The conversations are ongoing, but they're not advanced yet. So we do not run the risk of being caught up on this point. Let us hope that this will speed up the pace. I have already indicated that I have chosen a dish from Mrs Bruins Slot's choice menu. On the one hand, it seems to me that we already have legislation which makes it possible to differentiate, but on the other hand it is also good to see whether we can achieve a certain degree of uniformity in this area, given the knowledge and skills of the profession. I accept Mrs Bruins Slot's suggestion to ask the Health Council, including the addition of Mrs Agema. I confirm once again that at AMvB I will not rule out the obligation to register, unless we decide here with each other to do so. So that's not in accordance with the law. Then there is the question of an evaluation after five years. When the bill comes into force, it is part of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. That law must be reviewed within five years. This should be done by 1 January 2021 at the latest. My proposal, which is probably in line with Mrs Bruins Slot's intention, is that the evaluation of the implant register should be explicitly included in the evaluation of the Wkkgz. I have no real objection to the amendment. I would just point out that we agreed to evaluate the Wkkgz within that time limit. As far as I am concerned, we can agree that this is an explicit part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u51	I actually came up with this because the Secretary of State himself wrote in the answers that there is quite a lot of implementation attached to it and that it is a step-by-step method, so that rapid evaluation probably does not offer real results and insights yet. In this case, rapid evaluation is three years from its entry into force, let's say in mid-2018 and the evaluation of the Wkkgz bill. That's why I thought we'd add two years so we can do a deeper analysis. The proposal to amend the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act is also so comprehensive and has so many different facets that you run the risk of being snowed under again. In view of the answer given by the Secretary of State himself, I wanted to unpack it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u52	In fact, I think it is a convincing argument. So I have no objection to doing so. This means that I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Mrs. Bruins Slot specifically asked: how are we going to do the differentiation of the implants? That's been a bit of an issue. As far as I am concerned, we are doing this on a risk-based basis and on a step-by-step basis. We can also expand the AMvB. We should not rule out anything in advance, but, in very close consultation with the profession and the healthcare providers, we should strive to ensure that as many implants as possible are covered by the registration and tracing movements. I have already mentioned Mrs Bruins Slot's suggestion about the Health Council. This was my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u53	I don't know if I missed the answer, but I had asked if there was some kind of Lareb, a drug side effect center, for implants, or if the Ministry intends to set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u54	We intend to do that. We want to form an expert group to ensure that we can also track complaints about side effects of implants. It works differently than with the medicines; implants require a slightly different expertise. However, that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u55	I had also asked whether the Secretary of State intended to make it possible for patients to check for themselves whether there were problems with their implants. In the situation of the PIP breast implants, for example, women could have gone to a website themselves to find out. That's the route I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u56	That is a very valid point. I think we can put that together through the two routes we have now. On the one hand, if a defect is detected by the IGZ or otherwise, we take action towards the patients through the IGZ and the healthcare providers. On the other hand, patients are given prior written information on what it is when inserting the implant. If we find that something is going on, we must, of course, take action towards healthcare providers and trace them. However, we can also indicate this via the IGZ website, for example, so that every patient can see that something may be going on and can contact us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u57	I have a brief supplementary question on Mrs Agema's comment on the side-effects centre for implants that is being set up. This was promised by the Minister on 6 October 2015. So it's been going on for a little over a year and a half. The answers to our questions state that the Minister, together with Lareb, the RIVM, the National Health Service and the Health Care Inspectorate, is in the process of setting up this centre of expertise. When can we expect it now? It has been discussed for a year and a half. Actually, it would be nice if this just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u58	I would have hoped that Mrs Bruins Slot would add another sentence, because in that sentence I would probably get the answer in my hands. That's what's gonna happen now. On the magazine I have just received, it says that we expect the center for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u59	It wasn't a doctor's handwriting. The Secretary of State has thus come to the end of his term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u60	Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. In any case, I would like to congratulate Mr El Yassini on his maiden speech, because I had not had the opportunity to do so. I wish him every success and pleasure in this very nice committee. It is very good that today we are taking an important step towards creating this 'implementation register'. Here I go again. I mean implant registry. The creation of this is a very good thing. The only points that remain on the table as far as we are concerned are the retention periods. I think it's a good thing that the Secretary of State is requesting advice from the Health Council. We are dubbing about how we can at least prevent someone from getting into trouble after an x-number of years, in this case fifteen years. When that happens, we all scratch behind our ears and say: we had such a nice register, but in this area it does not offer any comfort. That's a joint search. Another point that is important to us is one that Mrs Agema has also raised. From the letter of amendment we had initially understood that the Secretary of State did intend to exclude small implants with a low health risk. But if I have listened carefully tonight, the Secretary of State has said that this is not the case. At least that reassures us. It also makes us a little happy, because it means that there will be a moment to discuss this further. We share Mrs Agema's view. We can also imagine that there are other forms, perhaps smaller forms, of implants that can cause problems. I tried to put that in first place. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a question that has not been answered. Or did I miss the Secretary of State's answer to this? That question is about the perhaps imaginary situation, or perhaps that situation is not entirely imaginary that a healthcare provider is going into financial trouble, going bankrupt, falling over or experiencing anything else in that direction. What happens then? At that point, the healthcare provider may not make much effort to trace a patient. Has there been any thought as to how we could best deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u61	Mr. Chairman. Now it's a lot less exciting, because I'm standing here for the second time. I thank everyone for their congratulations. I look forward very much to working with all the other healthcare professionals and getting to work on the care. We will find each other on certain points and on certain points not at all, but that's okay, because that's what we're in this house for. I'll come back to the request to the Health Council. The VVD supports seeking advice from the Health Council. We ask the Secretary of State very specifically whether the definition of the request for advice can be considered. When it comes to the overall retention obligation, it relates to all interventions and all medical records. In this case, we would particularly like to look at the piece of implant. So we have to take that into account. We must not get into the situation of getting the advice that it should be kept for 50 years. However, this also means that a very small intervention in the hospital is included. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to include this in the definition of the request for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad I'm not the only one who keeps talking about implants. I wrote it large on my paper: im-plan-tate. I hope it doesn't happen again. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. It is good that he indicated that he hopes to present an AMvB on the scope before the end of the second quarter. This has also been discussed in detail by the others. The survey on the control pressure also comes before the summer. I welcome that commitment. My group also supports Mrs Bruins Slot's proposal to consult the Health Council on the retention period. It seems important to me that the VVD has also indicated to look closely at how that is defined. I trust this Secretary of State to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is very good to do business with the Secretary of State, now that he is not required to implement a government agreement. I would therefore like to thank him for all the commitments he has made. I would also like to thank him for actually sharing the idea that we in our country should simply start working on the uniform barcode rather than waiting for Europe. After all, we are now dealing very complicatedly with the six issues that need to be included in the implant register. I would also like to give him the motto "from beeper to bleacher." In the past, caregivers were all running around with a pager and I hope that in the foreseeable future, within a few years, they will all be walking around with a bleacher. In this way we can prevent an enormous number of medical failures, and the waste could also be greatly reduced. The Central Planning Office has sometimes calculated that this could be worth EUR 120 million on administrative burdens, as it would have to keep up with much less. All you have to do is hold your device against the product and the job is done. I am also very happy that a side effect center will be set up for implants. I welcome the commitment that patients should be able to verify for themselves whether there are problems with an implant, that they can look it up at the IGZ if anything about it appears in the media. I'm glad the Secretary of State wants to take the retention period with him. The criterion should not be how long an implant is part of the body. With regard to the small product, I am also ready, heard the answer. For the rest, I am chewing on an amendment on uniform barcoding to include the whole Chamber in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u64	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the reply and the various commitments, as well as for the commitment to the Health Council to carry out further research. I note from the comments made by the various colleagues that it is still a matter of looking for what mission we are giving him. At the same time, we are also dealing with a Secretary of State who is making his debut on this dossier in a missionary phase. In some time, a successor of his will probably be here. In view of the fact that there are still some questions about the position and the like, I shall nevertheless table a motion. Then we have simply set out clearly what exactly the task is, regardless of the context and including the point made by Mrs Agema. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the legal retention period of patient data of at least 15 years in the case of implants is often not long enough;]] [[noting that a legislative proposal is in preparation to extend the retention period to 20 years;]] [[having noted that in 2004 the Health Council recommended extending the retention period for patient data to at least 30 years;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Health Council give its opinion on the retention period for implant data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34483-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u66	The Secretary of State also made comments on the European register to be established. The discussions on this matter have just begun and not yet advanced. Often it is also a kind of indication that not so much has happened yet. When does the Secretary of State expect such a European register at all? Do we have to think about five years from now or ten years? I'd like to hear an assessment of that. To close, patient safety is very important. That is why the CDA is also in favour of the registration of implants. The point is that we learn from medical misses. The best thing would be for us to prevent them and that ultimately this also leads to better tools and implants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u67	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I see the Secretary of State is able to respond immediately. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u68	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen asked how we can prevent the deadline from ending while there is still a defect. That is precisely the point about which we are going to ask the Health Council for advice. I do think it's a good idea to do that. Mrs Marijnissen also asked for confirmation that low risk implants are not excluded. I can indeed confirm that. They are not excluded in advance. We can talk about it later. What happens if a healthcare provider no longer exists or goes bankrupt? Is there still a way to trace it? Oh, yeah. The inspection will then ensure that the transfer of patient data is also regulated at that level. What happens if a healthcare provider ceases to exist or moves to another healthcare provider is one of the monitoring points. I think I have answered Mrs Marijnissen's questions. Mr El Yassini's remark that we must ensure that the opinion of the Health Council is on the implants is now, I think, contained in the motion before us. That is exactly what the word "implants" is called. So I have the idea that his comment was put forward in Mrs Bruins Slot's motion, but I will check with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u69	That is not really the case. I've read the motion and I'm actually curious as to what the Secretary of State thinks about it. When it comes to seeking advice, you want to make the request as open as possible, in this case with the Health Council. What I read back in the motion is that the legal retention period of patient data of at least 15 years is often not long enough. It is also noted that a legislative proposal is being prepared to extend the retention period to 20 years. It seems as if we are giving some kind of framework to the Health Council, in the vein of: we want advice, but listen, that must fall within these frameworks. I guess you're not looking for advice then, but for confirmation of your own opinion. To be honest, I am not waiting for that because I want to know exactly what the Health Council thinks in all objectivity and in view of this situation. Does the Council advise us on "fifteen years is enough" or does it say "look at other possibilities or longer deadlines"? I wonder if the Secretary of State shares my opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u70	A number of observations are made. It may be, but of course I'm not the one who's talking about this motion. I have no problem with asking the government to consult the Health Council. I told you. The applicant could consider removing the two observations in order to obtain further support in the Chamber, but I leave that to the applicant. I have no problem with the request itself. I agree with Mr El Yassini that the Health Council should be able to come up with an opinion on its own merits and not get messages in advance. But I also do not believe that the purpose of the applicant was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u71	Mr El Yassini, I would like to point out the following. When Mrs Bruins Slot tabled the motion, you had the opportunity to ask questions about it. We're not negotiating motions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u72	No, I have absolutely no intention of negotiating either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u73	The Secretary of State has given an opinion on the motion. Everything you do outside this meeting is up to you, but I would like to leave it at that. I believe that this point has been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u74	Very good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u75	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mrs Dijkstra for her support and for the explicit confirmation she received about the personal data. I think that's quite right. Yes, Mrs Agema, I am actually very happy to do business with you if you do not have to attack the coalition agreement. So if we don't have a coalition agreement, we could still work very well together, maybe. Let us at least let that start with this law. Then there is Mrs Bruins Slot's question about the EU register. I hear expectations that it could be done within five years, but frankly I am very careful with that. We hear that there is such a time limit, but if you ask me honestly, I dare not guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u76	Thank you. That concludes this debate. At least that's what it looked like. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u77	Only on the operative part of my motion. Will it support policy or judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u78	I'd almost like to ask, what do you prefer? As far as I'm concerned, Chamber judgment, because I think it supports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u79	Thank you. Mr President, the Secretary of State also noted that the Health Council should assess this on its own merits. Of course it is, because the Health Council always does so on its own merits, but it is nice for the Health Council to know in what context we have had this debate. That is where the observation of the motion helps. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u80	Thank you. That is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-17.u81	The motion and the amendment or the amendments, depending on which amendments are to be tabled, will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming and replacing the Minister in this Chamber. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions.
