ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the implementation of the Victims Directive. This Directive contributes to the harmonisation of the legal status and protection of victims of crime within the European Union and in a substantial number of Member States to the improvement of that status. My group welcomes this improvement and also sees this harmonisation as a logical consequence of the harmonisation of criminal law itself that we see within the Union. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in the written rounds. My group continues to raise one issue, namely access to care for undocumented victims. The Directive is clear: in Article 9, the Directive provides that specialised aid organisations shall provide for a refuge or other appropriate interim reception for victims who need a safe hiding place. Member States should ensure access to such reception and should not distinguish between residence status. The Minister admits that, too, so that's profit. However, my group cannot follow the Minister's approach to the implementation of this obligation. According to the Government, this right of reception does not need to be enshrined in the law for three reasons: because the directive does not require this, because the right to equal treatment has already been established in the Netherlands and because non-legal residence does not, in principle, constitute an obstacle to reception. The Wmo itself, which has to implement the access for undocumented persons, does indeed exclude non-legal residents. We therefore continue to be surprised why the law is not being amended as a result of the directive. A ban in the law while there is a commandment in the directive, is asking for problems in its implementation, can undermine the purpose of the directive and therefore threatens the effectiveness of the directive. Finally, funding and the organisations themselves have been set up to exclude undocumented persons. How is that compatible with the positive obligation of the State to ensure that no victim is excluded? Why does the government not regulate this exception to the Linking Act in the relevant laws and regulations? As regards access to reception itself: in practice, the Minister believes that there is no obstacle, but at the same time he will take stock of the problems of access and look for solutions to guarantee the right to care for undocumented victims of domestic violence. We welcome that, of course. During the inventory, the Minister will also examine those who have applied for a residence permit on humanitarian grounds. We ask the Minister to inform the Upper Chamber of the solutions found following his exploration. In the further reply, the Minister states that he is not aware of how often undocumented victims of domestic violence are refused access to the shelter because of their residence status. This seems to our group to be all the more reason to ensure that there will be sufficient registration and monitoring in the future, so that action can be taken in good time if the practice of exclusion continues to be too persistent and so that the Netherlands can demonstrate compliance with the directive. So much for the shelter of victims of domestic violence. With regard to other types of reception of undocumented victims, the Minister seems to be referring to reception in the return locations, the freedom-limiting locations. This point suddenly occurred in the further reply. My group has a few questions on this. This seems to us to be totally inadequate in the context of specialised care and, moreover, contrary to the principle of equality laid down in the directive. We believe that it should be about Wmo-care, as can Dutch victims. In the bed-bath-bread statements it is stipulated that the freedom-limiting location is not a Wmo-care facility. Does the Minister share this view? And if so, is he prepared to bring this law into line with the directive in order to ensure that the care provided actually reaches the level of WMO reception? If the Minister does not believe that Wmo-care is indicated for undocumented crime victims, how does he bring this differentiation in line with the principle of equality that is sought in the directive? How does he ensure that the necessary specialised care is offered in the freedom-limiting location? I am asking a general question about this, but it also affects some of the victims. How does the Minister ensure that the freedom-limiting location is accessible? In practice, accessibility is a major problem and we believe that this will be no different for victims. The condition for such reception is that the person concerned cooperates in return. In practice, this evidence appears to have to be provided by the victim prior to the reception. This evidence is very difficult to provide in practice, especially for victims who may be traumatized or at least seized by their problematic situation. Is the Minister aware of this practical obstacle? Do victims have to meet the compliance criterion? And if so, how is that compatible with the directive, which requires unconditional reception? To the extent that the participation criterion applies, the rule should not at least be worded as follows: you have the right to care and during this reception you should cooperate on return and should you comply with the rules? In other words, is the burden of proof for finding that the person does not cooperate on departure not to lie with the government? My group reads this in the case law of the Central Board of Appeal and the Council of State, but receives signals from practice that the undocumented is placed in an impossible position of proof. Let us be clear that, according to my group, these rules and conditions should not apply to victims. We would like to hear the Minister's answer. It is also important to know where the burden of proof lies and how victims are identified as such. Here, too, there should be no need for a victim who cannot justify his victimisation with facts to have access to the shelter. That person may not be able to do that at all. This will require a professional test. If the victim is already under professional treatment, the doctor will have to take care of the transfer to a doctor at the site. It should not be the case that the victim has to bring his own file to enter, as we understand from practice. Finally, we are hearing about another obstacle, namely the condition that there should be a real view of departure within 12 weeks. Is that right? And if so, what is this additional condition based on? Is it not the ruling of the European Social Rights Committee or its interpretation by the Central Appeals Council and the Council of State? I would once again like to ask whether these additional conditions are also being applied to victims. My group is aware that these are technical and practical questions, but they stem from the Minister's answer that the reception of victims is good because we have the freedom-limiting location. The signals from practice cast great doubts. Has the unconditional reception of undocumented crime victims been secured? I hope, of course, that I will get an answer, but I also hope that the Minister will understand that he will have to extend his exploration, which he has already indicated in the first instance, on these points and that he will not be satisfied with a simple reference to the freedom-limiting location.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group is pleased to note that the government intends to extend and improve the position of victims in various areas in the current legislative proposal, on the basis of the European directive. We wholeheartedly support the intentions of the legislative proposal, because it is absolutely necessary to improve the position of victims. However, I still have a few questions and comments. My first question is what is going on with respect for and enforcement of the rights of victims in our country. It is commendable that the rights of victims are now being extended and improved, but this does not mean that these rights are actually guaranteed as they should be after they have been improved under the directive and the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, I have to note that many victims remain in the cold in the current criminal practice because their rights are not respected or are not properly respected, in particular their enforcement and enforcement. Why is that? The Minister will be familiar with the debate I had with his predecessor in this house last December in response to the budget of the Ministry of V and J for 2017. On that occasion, I drew the Minister's attention to the many ominous reports about the deficiencies in the police and the prosecutor's office. I noted that the Minister had recently acknowledged in the House of Representatives that there were major problems with the police, that absenteeism was still far too high and that the efficiency measures had not been achieved. On the basis of a series of practical examples, I have shown how precarious the situation was with the police and, unfortunately, still is. Unfortunately, following that debate last December, a number of serious incidents were brought out to the police again. A survey carried out by the ACP among its members showed, among other things, that the police are dealing with a constant shortage of resources, powers and people. In the recent report of the regional mayors and prosecutors, entitled "A robust and forward-looking police!', an open discussion of an investigation deficit and an enforcement deficit. Jensma wrote in the NRC about a report in which the misery of the prosecutor, the police and the local government is brought together. I will then confine myself to the sections of the report which concern the position of victims. The report shows that far-reaching measures are needed to strengthen police quality and quantity. According to the report, detection should be brought to a higher level and investment in people should be made. The reduction in police personnel already in progress must be stopped and 4,500 additional staff urgently needed. In addition, the authors of the report argue that the quality of the police should be increased and that investment in resources should be made. This will require an additional structural investment of EUR 927 million. I'd like to hear the Minister's comments on that. The annex to the report explains why there is also a serious shortage of detectives, affecting in particular the position of the victims. I quote: 'However, in practice it is increasingly common for necessary choices to be under pressure or not to be made because of a shortage of capacity in quantitative or qualitative terms'. It is also pointed out that there is a large gap between the measured victimisation and registered crime. I quote: "In 2015, 18% of the population over 15 years of age reported becoming victims of a crime. A total of 34 crimes were reported per 100 inhabitants. Extrapolating that number to the total population (...) leads to approximately 4.5 million crimes in 2015. However, crime registered by the police is substantially lower. The police registered 960.00 crimes in 2015, mostly following a report. This is a difference of 3.5 million with the number of crimes reported by victims." My first question to the Minister is: does the Minister recognise and recognize these figures? My second question is: does the Minister share our conclusion on the basis of these figures that this process is damaging the interests of many victims? The third question is, of course, what measures is the Minister prepared to take in the short and medium term to put an end to this deterioration in the position of the victims? In addition, the report shows that 57% of the 960,000 offences notified to the police were not dealt with by what is called "choice in the assessment steps at the beginning of the search process." Of the 422.000 cases that were dealt with, 177.000 files were completed without a suspect being identified. A total of 225,000 files were completed and submitted to the D.A.'s office or otherwise. Of the files submitted to the D.A.'s office, 37,000 were immediately assessed with a dismissal. The remaining files were brought into the prosecution process. Thus, 18% of total reported crime in 2015 eventually led to influx into the prosecution process or was eliminated alternatively. This phenomenon is also referred to as funnel effect, according to the report. My question to the Minister is this: does the Minister share my view that, in a well-functioning rule of law, it is not acceptable that, on balance, more than 80% of the crimes brought to the attention of the police, the victims remain empty-handed? If not, why not? But more importantly, if so, what measures is he going to take to ensure that the rights of these victims are properly implemented? Another harmful effect for victims of the breakdown in the police is seen at the long lead times in the prosecution phase. It is often the case that there is a great deal of time between the submission of the investigation file to the prosecution and the time when the case is being dealt with in court. Afterwards, treatment sometimes takes a very long time, with the result that suspects are often reduced or even dismissed from legal proceedings for exceeding a reasonable period of time. How does the Minister intend to defend the victim's rights in this situation? Or, in spite of the European directive and the bill, does the Minister leave these victims in the cold? It is clear that the SP Group wishes to endorse the following conclusion of the report: "If we want to maintain social confidence in criminal law and remain able to cope with the scale and developments of crime, we need to invest in more and better qualified staff." I should like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to do so in the context of the protection of the victims of crime. My second comment concerns the enforcement and enforcement of victim rights. The SP Group has taken note with interest and appreciation of the Minister's answers to questions raised by the SP Group. The Minister noted that in the series of actions in the search and prosecution process things sometimes go wrong and that each chain partner has its own responsibility in it. The Minister also states that there are certain victims' rights in which the victim is provided with legal remedies, but that there are also rights which do not provide for a remedy or any other form of judicial review. On the basis of examples, the Minister makes clear why he believes that introducing remedies cannot provide a comprehensive effective solution to all cases of non-compliance with rights and provisions. The Minister also notes that it is important that victims' rights are part of the daily practice of organisations in the justice chain. We agree with this interest, but we also believe that if the rights of the victims are not sufficiently guaranteed, it is reasonable and appropriate in a rule of law that those rights can be enforced, if necessary, by means of legal remedies. Does the Minister share that view? If not, why not? And if so, what action does the Minister intend to take? I'm getting to the lock. We note that in the case of a victim who is unjustly not invited to a hearing, the action against the injured party is not dealt with in court, the defendant is convicted, and the prosecution and the suspect do not appeal, apart from the victim's ability to file a claim for damages against the prosecution, the government has acknowledged that the victim has an interest in not being dependent on the defendant or the prosecution bringing an appeal. The Government adds that it has included such a proposal in the Contours Note on the proposed modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the government's intention, but at the same time believes that such a solution in favour of the victim should no longer be delayed and should already be implemented. The SP Group would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to amend or supplement the bill in this direction now, or at least in the short term. I look forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Ruers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Strik and Mr Ruers for their general support for the implementation of the directive. I assume that the same applies to those Members who have waived the floor. I will answer Mrs Strik's questions first and then Mr Ruers' questions. Mrs Strik asked why we do not amend the law so that the linking principle does not apply to victims and their access to facilities. The reason for this is first of all that we do not believe that this is necessary, because, even without additional legislation, this task can be created by agreeing on the reception and financing that can eventually be decided upon. Moreover, the directive does not instruct us to make separate legislation for this purpose. However, we are doing additional research, Mrs Strik pointed out this in collaboration with VWS' colleague, in order to determine whether there are in practice bottlenecks in the case of victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u6	Let's talk about the first point. The Minister says that we do not have to change the law because we can regulate it in lower regulation. But then the undesirable situation arises that lower regulation is contrary to the law in a formal sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u7	This could be regulation that deals with funding or reception. That doesn't have to conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u8	The Wmo indicates that access is excluded for undocumented persons. If you then regulate in more detail that they do have access, isn't it logical to build up our system of laws and regulations? Shouldn't that be provided for in the Social Support Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u9	The explicit regulation of access in the Social Support Act would create another contradiction, namely with the Linking Act. This is a difficult area. I will go into the two different categories in a moment, because there is a special provision for victims of domestic violence. But when we say at the same time that someone has no right to stay and say in another law that we offer such a person facilities, we create a complicated situation anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u10	We have done the same with a number of other rules. We have done so, for example, in the Youth Act, in medical care and in education. Where we ourselves believe that we are obliged to provide this to undocumented people, because they are basic services, or where we are obliged to do so under international and European rules, we have regulated this in the law. The Linking Act is a main rule, but the exceptions to it are always found in the relevant laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u11	Of course, but in this case, the cabinet sees no reason to do so because it believes that reception can be provided where it is justified. These are two different groups. On the one hand, these are foreigners who have been processed and are not legally resident in the Netherlands. They can obtain shelter in a freedom-limiting location. If there is a need for care during the stay, in any form whatsoever, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers is responsible for access to that care. This also means that residents of such a freedom-limiting location can call on Victim Support Netherlands. On the other hand, it concerns another group of victims, namely those who have applied for accommodation on humanitarian grounds in connection with domestic violence or honour-related violence. They are legally resident in the Netherlands during the period of their application. In practice, this group is taken care of by the women's shelter and municipalities. That's the group the research is focusing on. Mrs Strik asked me to inform the Chamber of the outcome of that investigation and any measures that might be taken. Of course, I'd be happy to. Mrs Strik asked whether a victim falling under the first category should explicitly participate in expulsion in order to qualify for reception. This was decided by the Central Appeals Board on 26 November 2015. It concluded that the possibility of accommodation in such a restricted location is in line with the Treaty-law protection invoked in the procedure for foreigners. The Centrale Raad van Beroep also involved the decision of the Council of State on the situation in which the foreign court has simultaneously ruled on obligations of participation in the departure of a residence in the freedom-limiting location. It follows from that judgment of the Council of State that, in principle, it may be at the risk of the foreigner if he does not cooperate in his departure. At the same time, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice must take into account that special circumstances may arise where he cannot require the foreigner to cooperate in his departure. Such special circumstances may occur as long as it appears that because of his mental state the stranger cannot see that he is not sheltered by the Secretary of State if he does not cooperate. Mrs Strik asked how it is ensured that adequate care is guaranteed in the alien chain and in the freedom-limiting locations. As I have just said, the Central Commission for Asylum is responsible for the accessibility of care, which actually includes all forms of care, including victim care. This respects the principle of equality. It just has to be quality care. Mrs Strik asked whether this would mean that the data subject with a file under the arm should be responsible for the provision of data. In the case of medical data coming from another treating doctor, this is not necessary because the care is still provided by the same body. This is also due to the fact that there are legal obstacles to sharing medical data between different parties. In order to prevent a doctor from knowing about the medical history of the person concerned in the freedom-limiting location, the person concerned is asked to provide the medical data himself. Mrs Strik asked whether access to the freedom-limiting location would be made more difficult because the process had to prove that he wanted to cooperate in departure and, if so, whether the burden of proof would lie with him. The burden of proof does not necessarily lie with the applicant. There is no need to submit documents in advance to show that people want to cooperate in departure. Wanting to participate in departure is derived from historical data from the file and, above all, from a conversation with the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u12	The Minister states that we do not need to make any other arrangement in the Wmo because there is sufficient access for victims to the freedom-limiting location. I am actually hearing that there are the same rules for the victims regarding access to the freedom-limiting location as for other undocumented people. This raises the question of whether the conditions for access to that freedom-limiting location are in line with the Victims Directive. Such conditions, such as cooperation on return and the prospect of return, are not included. It is precisely that Member States are obliged to ensure that victims have access to care. How can the Minister bring that into line with the conditions that will apply, or already apply, to these victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u13	One doesn't have to be in conflict with the other. It may be that someone is in the unfortunate situation that he is at the same time a victim of a crime, reports it and also calls for victim support, and we must note that he is not legally resident in the Netherlands. Both facts are true, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u14	Yeah, that could be both. That's why we're talking about undocumented victims. However, undocumented victims can in all cases be treated the same by the government as undocumented victims who are not victims. The Victims Directive gives explicit rules on access to aid. The Minister commits access to aid to additional conditions which are not provided for in the Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u15	Those conditions follow from the fact that that person is illegally staying in the Netherlands. You can't suddenly deny that fact because of the unfortunate fact that someone is also a victim? We are guaranteeing that this person will have access to the victim assistance that this directive requires us to do, but it does not mean that we will suddenly stop discussing the fact that this person is illegally staying in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u16	I really do not follow this reasoning. The Directive does not allow Member States to impose additional conditions on the reception they are required to provide. The Minister actually does. Is the Minister not prepared, in view of the practical signals I have put forward, to include in the exploration he is about to carry out the problems of access to the freedom-limiting location, so that we can assess whether the directive is being properly implemented and complied with in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u17	I do not want to give the impression that suddenly there is a virtually legitimate residence if someone is in the unfortunate situation that he is also a victim of a crime. Again, both facts of law are judged side by side, but it is not so that it should have an impact on the other. Mr Ruers began with a comprehensive presentation of figures on crime, the number of victims, and the potential investment in police and prosecution. First of all, he looked at a number of figures. To sum up, both the number of registered victims and the number of reported offences are falling. This is demonstrated by monitors that we have produced, inter alia, by the Central Bureau of Statistics, which have recently been released. It is also apparent, for example, from victim surveys and insurance figures, which have to keep track of the number of burglaries. That is good news, but that does not alter the fact that we may not have a good picture of some of the crime. That is what Mr Ruers asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u18	The minister says the figure's dropping. Could he then make a distinction between, on the one hand, the figures available to the police and, on the other hand, the figures which are not available to the police? After all, that makes a huge difference. I have noted something about both the first and the second situation. What's that fall in the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u19	I was just going to go into that further. The falling figures I mentioned come from different sources. So from the question to the public: were you a victim of crime? So that doesn't have to do with the question: did you report it? After all, these are the police figures that show a decrease. So the question was, were you a victim of crime? In the area of common crime, such as burglaries and robberies, there is a decline. At the same time, I realize that we may not have a clear picture of crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u20	I have quoted the Minister from the, in my opinion, most recent report. It is about the figures for 2015: 34 crimes per 100 inhabitants. In total, there were 4.5 million crimes in 2015. I hear the Minister saying that this figure would have fallen. Can he tell me what year and what figures that is? I do not have that information; at least it is not apparent from this report. What's the Minister's position on this drop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u21	Last week, the Central Bureau of Statistics published the falling crime figures. That's what I'm basing myself on. This relates to a number of years. Several sources indicate this decline. Again, this reduction applies to a number of important categories of crime, in particular the common crime. However, this does not rule out the possibility of unreported or underreported crime, for example in the case of cybercrime or organised crime. That's why I'm having the WODC investigate the size of that dark number. Mr Ruers' question whether the figures show the whole reality is therefore a fair question. I want to know the answer to that, too. The good news is that there has been a decline in a number of areas that have been measured for several years. Mr Ruers also asked about the necessary investment in detection and prosecution. As he knows, an additional 450 million has been allocated to Security and Justice under the 2017 budget. In addition, we have recently learned what amounts the various political parties hope to allocate to the various subjects when they are at the negotiating table for a new coalition agreement. In itself, I am pleased that almost all parties want to give extra money. However, I am a little more concerned when I see that some parties want to allocate money that they do not actually have. But that seems to me to be a discussion that should first be held with the electorate, and within the framework of a new government agreement, after the electorate has ruled on it. I am lucky to have extra money for the 2017 budget. My commitment is to use it as wisely and effectively as possible. Then Mr Ruers asked whether no further steps should be taken to enforce the rights of victims. He also discussed the announced modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This modernisation is based on the assumption that recently implemented legislation will not be amended again. This also applies in principle to the rights of victims. Fortunately, victims have already gained a stronger position in criminal law in recent years. However, victims' rights are supplemented in a limited number of areas in the modernisation process. Those additions are included in the Contourennota Modernisation. Then we are talking, for example, about the regulation of the complaint about not continuing to prosecute. A complaint period is introduced to speed up the procedure. In addition, Mr Ruers considers it important for the victim, if he has joined the criminal proceedings as an injured party, to be able to appeal independently against decisions on his claim to the Court of Justice or, if that is the case, to go into cassation. Again, that's the Modernisation Code of Criminal Procedure route. Mr Ruers also asked whether this should not happen now, when this law is introduced, and whether we should not go further. Cases where the victim was not properly or late informed are very regrettable. However, I do not believe that a new remedy is going to help. This concerns, for example, cases where someone has not been informed that there has been a hearing. It is indeed very regrettable if someone hears it afterwards. At that time, however, it is no good to anyone to go to court, because that hearing has already been held. My commitment is to prevent such mistakes from being made. It's always human work, so we have to accept that sometimes things go wrong. Partly as a result of the implementation of this directive, for which we have taken preparatory steps, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are working extensively to ensure that the safeguards are implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u22	I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification on this point. However, I was concerned with the following. You yourself, at least your predecessor, have acknowledged that this is a problem for the victim, because it is fishing behind the grid in the situation described by the Minister in the documents I have quoted. The government recognizes that problem and says it wants to solve it. It wants to do so in the Contourennota Modernisation Code of Criminal Procedure. My problem is that it could take five or maybe ten years for this to be dealt with. If the Minister agrees with us that this is a gap in the law that is to be solved, because the concept is already there, what does the government have to do to just make that gesture and make the point? Why can't the government take care of that in the short term? That's possible, isn't it? It's almost done. We agree that it must be done and that this is a good thing for the victims. Then what is the Minister's concern? Why wouldn't he introduce it sooner than five or ten years from now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u23	Last week I was a guest of the First Chamber in a discussion on the implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I said at that time that it is happening carefully and with the necessary urgency. I also said that I hope that we will be able to submit an implementation law in 2018, but that the actual implementation, due to the major impact on all parties involved, will probably take a few years afterwards. I haven't talked about ten years, but I have in a few years. It is a very large legislative process. That is why it seems careless to me to make some sort of intermediate sprint. It is indeed an important subject, and I agree with Mr Ruers. However, if we draw one important issue from a large number of important issues, there is this Code of Criminal Procedure, because we are losing coherence. My aim is to count the blessings of the present bill. This represents a number of concrete improvements in the situation of victims and is accompanied by changes in the way police and prosecutors operate. This is now being set in motion. Let us not delay or complicate this by taking additional steps on top of it. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. Article 9 of the directive we are discussing now imposes an obligation on Member States to ensure a safe haven for victims who, because of an imminent risk of victimisation, need safe hiding places. I had an exchange of views with the Minister on whether legal access should be regulated in the WMO. The Minister doesn't think so. He says we don't have to, and we'll take care of this at AMvB. We continue to disagree on this. It is all the more important to see whether this is actually guaranteed. I don't think we'll get any closer to each other on that point either. The Minister makes a very clear distinction between victims of domestic violence and other victims. According to him, victims of domestic violence have access to social care. He's gonna investigate where the bottlenecks are, and then he's gonna come up with solutions to these bottlenecks, so that things are secured. Of course, we are very happy about that. My group cannot understand, however, that the Minister is so laconical about the other victims of crime. The directive does not distinguish between victims, as long as they are victims of crime. The directive clearly states that the principle of equality must be respected. Therefore, those residing legally must be treated in the same way as those residing illegally. The Minister won't go along with that. The Minister doesn't do it that way. He says that further conditions may be laid down for undocumented victims. He says, after all, they also remain undocumented. How can he bring this into line with the principle of equality? No distinction should be made between residence status, but the Minister does. How else am I supposed to interpret this? In addition, my group remains concerned about whether the useful effect of the directive will not be affected. It may be that the victim cannot meet the conditions, or that he cannot make it clear that he cannot meet the conditions. On this point, too, the Minister does not treat the victims in any other way than other undocumented persons. We are therefore afraid that this will jeopardise compliance with the directive. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to identify and inform us about the possible bottlenecks in practice. The Minister says that we should not create a quasi-righteous residence. That's not the point at all. It remains unlawful, but it is quite possible that it is not clear whether someone is not cooperating, or that someone is not cooperating because of trauma or the situation. However, under the directive, there is still a duty to provide adequate reception and assistance. On the one hand, therefore, I have a question on the principle of equality. On the other hand, I am asking to what extent the freedom-limiting location is sufficiently sensitive to take account of victims. I don't think it's designed for that at all. I also strongly ask the Minister how he intends to ensure that all the care that the victims need is actually provided in the freedom-limiting location, at the same level as the care that the Dutch, legally resident, receive. I haven't heard the Minister say that. Is the Minister prepared to take these concerns with him and to examine to what extent we are going to comply with this directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and his explanation, including the interruptions I have put in place. I still have a few comments for the Minister. I referred to the report of the regional mayors and the prosecutor, to a robust and forward-looking Police!. At the end of the report, it says that a structural investment of EUR 927 million is needed. Does the Minister recognize that amount? Does he think it's right, or not? What does he think of that question from the state's attorney's office and mayors? Is that amount, in his opinion, sufficient, or not? The Minister refers to the budget, but this amount is certainly not in the budget. That amount is much lower. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Then I come to the figures on reported and unreported crime. I quoted from the report. They're pretty impressive numbers. In any case, I was surprised that so little was reported about the crimes actually committed. The Minister said that these figures are falling. I asked him to do so, and the Minister said he was using the CBS. I would appreciate it if the Minister would send us a letter on his view of these figures and, in particular, on the basis on which he bases himself, such as that of the CBS. If those figures from the report I just mentioned are not correct, I would like to hear what the Minister thinks is wrong. It is a significant report and it would be nice if we were to know for sure whether the figures are correct or not. The minister said he's going to investigate, as he calls it, dark numbers. That is fine with me, but I would like to know from him who is going to do the research and when we can expect results from it. Is that what this report says included? Of course, that would also be very important, because then we would have hit two birds with one stone. I have made the proposal to extend the rights of victims in advance on the issue on which the Minister and our group agree. The Minister says that he finds that difficult, referring to the contour note. It was known. The minister said it was hard for him to pull an intermediate sprint for this. If the Minister recognizes the importance, I think it should be possible to draw that little intermediate sprint. The Minister and we agree; we know about what is to come out. In fact, I find it incomprehensible that this is being postponed in the medium term or at least in the medium term. I am in favour of doing it in the real short term. I'll file the next motion for that. The President shall: Mr Ruers, Mr Don, Mr Strik, Mr Köhler, Mr Meijer and Mr Overbeek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government recognises that the victim may have an interest in not being dependent on an appeal by the defendant or the prosecution;]] [[Whereas, in that situation, the victim of the crime should be given the opportunity to appeal independently to the court's criminal chamber or to the Supreme Court;]] [[calls on the Government to take care of this in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34236-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u27	That concludes my speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u28	As soon as the Minister has received the motion, he will begin his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u29	Madam President. Mrs Strik asked me once again to deal with the situation of victims who are not legally resident in the Netherlands. She referred, inter alia, to Article 9 of the Directive. But Article 9 is, not entirely surprisingly, followed by Article 10, which says that the declaration of a criminal offence and participation in criminal proceedings do not create rights in relation to the victim's residence status. That was precisely the concern I expressed to Mrs Strik: I do not want to mix two independent legal facts. The directive commits rights to being victims. We want to implement them fully. This means that a person who is illegally staying in the Netherlands and reporting to or already staying in a closed care facility will receive all the victims' rights, as will all medical facilities. But I don't want to mix that with the right of residence. I believe that the directive provides grounds for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u30	I think there's really been a misunderstanding here. I didn't ask for a mix of residence status at all. The Directive expressly prohibits the distinction by residence status. The Directive therefore imposes new obligations on Member States to provide victims with adequate care and access to reception. In doing so, they will not be given any other residence status, but they must not be treated differently, worse than those who are legitimate here. The Minister continues to refer to undocumented locations where additional conditions are imposed. Are these conditions permitted under this directive? This is different from creating new right of residence. It's a matter of unconditional custody guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u31	These conditions may be provided for within this Directive. The condition of reporting to a closed residence institution for undocumented persons follows from the fact that someone is staying here illegally. At the same time, the right to victim assistance and other assistance is fully available. This directive obliges us to do so. It is not contrary to the principle of equality, nor is it contrary to the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u32	I do not think we are getting any closer to each other on this point. I can imagine that one day a judge will be required to give sufficient clarification on this matter. I do have another question. The Minister has just made it clear that the victim is given the same rights in the reception. Does that mean that the same care, all specialized care, is available to the undocumented victim, just like it is available to other victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u33	Whether it's going to be exactly the same, I can't completely oversee, but there's access to the same victim care. Mrs Strik further asked if I would be prepared to investigate further bottlenecks in this group of victims, not the victims of domestic violence, but the group of victims who are unlawfully in the Netherlands. I see no reason to investigate that as well. I have undertaken to investigate the victims of domestic violence. I want to get a clearer picture of whether there are any bottlenecks there. Since the right to victim support is secured here, I see no reason to re-examine it. Mr Ruers asked me to respond to the report by the regional mayors and to the amount of EUR 970 million in structural terms. In the first term, I have already referred to the time when we are in the political season: three weeks before the elections. We can assess how much each party wants to spend on safety. I am pleased that almost all parties want to spend more money on this, including Mr Ruers' party. I am somewhat concerned that the total list of wishes of Mr Ruers' party does not close at the bottom of the line. So I do not know where the money is to come from, but this is the discussion that we must have with the electorate first and, after the electorate has spoken, at the negotiating table. I have the task of implementing this year's budget. I'm glad he's getting extra money. That money must be spent wisely. Mr Ruers also asked for a letter in which I deal with the development of crime rates. I'd be happy to. I think it may be a copy of the letter I recently sent to the House of Representatives on this subject, but I will at least ensure that Mr Ruers receives the various figures I referred to. Mr Ruers has tabled a motion asking for a victim of a crime to have an independent appeal before the court or the Supreme Court. The government must take care of this in the short term. I have already indicated that we are engaged in a major, complex operation of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We must implement this carefully. The idea of careful implementation was given to me last week in the consultation with the standing committee. I share it, too. However important the care for victims is, I do not think it is wise to start a new procedure on one part, as is shown by the legislative proposal we are debating today. We are careful not to put it on the long track; we are dealing with it as part of the overall revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's why I have to discourage this motion. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u34	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose to vote on Tuesday 7 March on the legislative proposal and on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u35	I shall suspend the meeting for a single minute, pending the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
