ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	I'm reopening the discussion with the entire cabinet. so that the political vision can be set out. The mp will respond in general political debate, So that everyone can reflect: have I had any experience with that? In order to make that judgment... I now give the floor to the MP. Maybe it inspires novels, But we'll see about that. Mp, I'm done. You only have the floor now. in response to what you heard from the Chamber in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u2	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr President, I am impressed! Because it doesn't only rhyme, but it also has a rhythm. It's beautiful! Mr President, perhaps I should like to mention this five-December theme, which was in your final words, by saying that I am not doing it in a dense form, but I am referring to the subject of the professionalism and the spirit of the Senate, of the Members of the First Chamber, which I heard again yesterday. But I know there's also a part of it that you don't give away presents. Not even on 5 December, and that disappoints me very much. At the same time, I noticed again yesterday that there was a critically constructive atmosphere throughout the debate, and I would also like to express my thanks for that towards all the speakers, although this critically constructive atmosphere was somewhat more hidden here and there, especially under a critical layer and under a somewhat more constructive layer. These are, of course, the differences of emphasis which may indicate that one is either a member of the coalition of government or of the opposition, but sometimes it also fits more into the more specific tradition of a specific political party. And that's what makes Parliament so beautiful. Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a few general comments before I come to the various questions. I will deal with the questions immediately on the basis of six themes. Before I do that, I'll make a few general remarks. I will not repeat the declaration of government, but I would like to say a few things before I come to the specific answer. The election results of 15 March were, I must admit, not followed by the shortest formation in Dutch history. Unfortunately, it has now become clear that it has been the longest formation in Dutch history. It is also the first time that a cabinet of more than three parties is needed for the majority. There have been often four-party cabinets, even five-party cabinets. This applies to the Den Uyl cabinet, and it also occurred in the 1950s and 1960s. But that was a time when not all those parties were needed for the majority. The Russian President asked me the other day in Hamburg about the Dutch formation. Yeah, you can have a question like that. Then I explained to him that we are talking to four parties in the Netherlands and that, if it succeeds, it will lead to a majority of one seat in Parliament. I saw a great question mark on the face of the Russian President, and I explained to him that this might also highlight the differences between our two political systems, which, of course, have more distinctive differences. Mr. Chairman. Before I go any further, I would like to say that I support all those who spoke kindly to the previous cabinet yesterday, even if only because I was in it myself. But apart from that, I think it is also quite right that you paid tribute to the rulers of the previous cabinet. I do that myself; they have worked very hard for the Netherlands to realise the plans of the previous coalition agreement. I think that Mrs Barth was right, and others have also referred to it, and that the result of that policy is that at least all the conditions have been sought to take full advantage of the economic recovery. We should not give the impression that politics is taking the Netherlands out of the crisis. We are currently the fastest growing economy in Europe after Spain. This probably has something to do with the fact that we have done so much in recent years, for which, in this Chamber too, in ever-changing compositions, there has been not so much but at least enough support. We can see that it is the ambition of the cabinet to make a strong country even stronger for all the people in this country in many areas. This ambition of the government agreement was also quoted yesterday by a number of you: lower burdens, a better functioning labour market, investment in education, in care for the elderly and in safety, and indeed a very ambitious climate policy. I've been working with this new team for a few weeks now, and I can tell you that they're excited and there's a lot of energy in it. Cooperation in the various departments, in couples, between different ministers or between ministers and secretaries of state, or between all three is also beautiful. That's going very well. That is also important, because when problems arise in a coalition, it is often precisely in such a department, and I have not yet been able to recognise those problems. That also means less work for me, so that's nice. But it is also just important for the overall impact of the new cabinet. At the same time, with a majority of one seat, we realize that the majority is extremely tight; the tightest possible majority that is conceivable. Even Senator De Graaf referred to it. I get to teach two hours a week and then I try to explain it to those kids: if you have 150 Lower House members or 75 in the Senate, how many do you need for the majority? They always say 75 in the House of Representatives. It gets more complicated in the First Chamber, but eventually they get to 38. Then I have to explain that 75 in the Lower House is just not enough, because it has to be 76 versus 74, and that is a very exciting, tight majority. But we're on that now, and the same goes for the First Chamber, of course, with 38 versus 37. So we are going to try again to get support from other parties. Of course, not only because of the tight majority, but also because, as a coalition and cabinet, we think it is important to re-establish broad support for the reforms that are coming. There is perhaps also a paradox, to say the least, of Van Mierlo's: the more polarisation threatens, the more important it is that the parties are also prepared to step over their own shadow and put the general interest above party interests. When I say that, of course, that applies primarily to the coalition. You can only expect that from the opposition if the coalition does so itself. That is what we are trying to express in the coalition agreement, for example by looking in many places for cooperation with others, in politics here and in the House of Representatives on the other side, but also outside. I will come back later to talk about what it means for administrative relations in the country if you try to make agreements with so many people. I understand, of course, that there are risks involved. Yesterday the word corporatism fell; I will go into that. But I think it is of great value that we seek that cooperation, that broad consensus. That also suits the Netherlands. Think, for example, of climate change and the modernisation of the labour market, but also of cooperation with our international partners. We cannot do without the input of all those people outside politics and certainly in politics. We have also tried to express this in the government statement: there are differences to nurture and there are contradictions to bridge, even here in Parliament, where we are holding the debate and where we are at the same time in order to achieve concrete solutions for the people of the country. Again, if I say all that, it's not to explain to you how politics works. If there's one finger pointing at you, three point at me. If I say all this, it means first and foremost an obligation on this coalition to set an example in it itself, I realize that. If we do that once and if we succeed, perhaps even often, then I hope to find an open attitude and a listening ear with you. That is my question to you: Mrs Barth will, of course, be the first to do so, because she knows from the past five years how important it is to get that support from others. So I'm counting on her in particular. Having said all this as an introductory text... This is an example of what the group chairman of the SP said yesterday, namely that you have to try to get people to join us, but this is not quite working out, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u4	I understand the Prime Minister's signal, but he may also understand that the Labour Party feels very relaxed and unbridled and will therefore look at the cabinet's proposals with appropriate distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u5	That's what I was afraid of. That means I'm gonna try extra hard. Mr President, if I may, I would like to answer on six issues: public administration, security, socio-economic policy, care and education, then the European Union, migration and defence, and finally energy, climate, environment and living environment. I'll keep telling you when I'm on another subject. I want to start with the public administration. There was a direct challenge for me from the Christian Union to outline how we look at a number of issues, such as citizen involvement and values. Or the issue raised by the VVD: how do you deal with laws and implementing rules? How do you make sure everyone understands what we're doing? I have also been asked to reflect on a remote government. May I begin with not so much quoting, but referring to the introduction to the coalition agreement? This is because it refers to the contradiction that can sometimes be seen between the people with whom things are going well and the people who are worried. The special thing is that sometimes it's the same people who say "I'm fine but we're not as a country." However, sometimes people also say "I'm not doing well and our country is not doing well." Of course, there are several possibilities. In the introduction to the coalition agreement, we tried to say something about this in the passage about young people and those on middle income who have difficulty getting their hands on solid land. For example, they are flex workers or are difficult to take out a mortgage. People sometimes feel they don't recognize their own neighborhood anymore and sometimes even alienate it. This is sometimes due to a lack of integration of newcomers. That is what we are going to talk about today. At the same time, the people who have come from outside have the feeling that they do not have a sufficient chance in this country to join our society. We are making an attempt in the introduction to the coalition agreement to outline that if we bring the country back to a sum of graphs and income figures, we will not do justice to the enormous task that lies ahead and which, as I say immediately, politically can solve even to a limited extent. We can, as politicians, even as we sit here today as First Chambers, and that also applies to the other side and to the cabinet, only to a limited extent. So we must also be very specific in this and do our best to do so. This also affects the composition of the cabinet. This was a subject to which Mr Kuiper referred, referring back to the period Cort van der Linden in which it was also the confessions and the liberals who together tried to overcome a number of major social contradictions. Initially, in 1913, it still seemed that the SDAP would participate in the government for the first time. That's been going on in that formation for quite some time. Eventually it took them until 1939 before they actually got government power, but in 1913 it did. That was shortly after Troelstra's visit to Queen Wilhelmina. I would see a beautiful film about that, about the meeting between Troelstra and the then head of state! Eventually, it led to a cabinet of confessions and liberals. They have proved to be able to overcome a few major social contradictions. Now there are also major issues on the table. They also played in formation, for example in the field of medical-ethical issues. I think we have managed to overcome the problems by listening carefully to each other, by really hearing what the other says. But it also applies to other matters, for example the question of the single-earners I am about to address. How do you deal with that? At the same time, it is the desire of many parties to leave room for economic development and for the choices that people make to organise family life in a different way or at all. I think we have already tried in this coalition to bridge social differences and contradictions. That's why this formation took so long. As for the relationship between the government and our residents, in the words of Hans Wiegel "the people in the country": in the end, it is our belief that people themselves know very well what is best for them and that they also want to have space to live their lives. Yesterday, many referred to the professionals. How do we ensure that professionals are actually able to exercise their profession in a good way? I say to Mrs Jorritsma: indeed, this means for the cabinet and for politics that we must succeed in shaping the rules in such a way that they are understandable, that they are imaginable and predictable and that the rules we make are effective. We come later to talk about the case that Mr Brinkman of the CDA brought in yesterday: the workers' self-government that sometimes seems to arise in some sectors, with which certain expenses can be enforced. I'm gonna put his words to the wind for a moment. That's another thing that comes from the whole of our rule complex. We will have to take a critical look at that. In the end, the rules must be unambiguous and imaginable, and we must always adapt the rules accordingly. Another aspect that is not directly linked to it, but which is the same, is the issue of citizenship. Last Saturday, at the European Liberal Party Congress, I had a discussion about identity versus the values in a society, the underlying beliefs that we share with each other. My point was that people have a lot of identities. The last thing I'd like to do is address someone to one identity. I also said that I was so annoyed by President Obama's speech in 2009 about the Islamic world in Cairo, which appealed to a whole group of people like the Muslims. Indeed, there is a great chance that people in an Islamic world are angehaucht Islam. But it's just one identity. People have a lot of identities, and those are choices they make themselves. I believe that the values that bind our society are the equality of men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals, whites and blacks, the democratic rule of law, freedom of expression, freedom of religion. Those are underlying values. I would like to achieve, to reach this cabinet, including on the issue of citizenship, that we are much clearer about what these underlying values are in this society, that we convey and convey that much more in education, and that we also make it clear that this does not necessarily mean that everyone always has to subscribe to those values, we would wish for that, but ultimately that is a personal choice, but that as a society with all our power we will turn against those people who openly oppose these values and thereby make life impossible for others. I believe that this sharp choice is firmly anchored in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u6	In my opinion, the Prime Minister is right to say that he was annoyed by a speech by an American president in 2009 in which these people considered and judged as one large group. Now we don't have to go back to 2009 and America. Yesterday, in this Chamber, one of my colleagues mentioned one specific group and said: for that group, the boundaries must be closed. In fact, they have to leave the country. And: their Holy Book must be forbidden, their churches must be closed, their eating style is no longer allowed. And if that is contrary to human rights, so what, human rights? Would it not be a good idea for the Prime Minister, apart from giving a fair judgment on the assessment of the American President, to say in this Chamber what he thinks of such an approach to politics? I understand that the idea is often: let's ignore it, because the soup is not worth the cabbage. That is also a reasonable idea, but in this case we are talking about a large part of the Dutch population who is systematically thrown away as the group that is threatening us and which should therefore be removed. I would like the Prime Minister to respond to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u7	I will give the floor to Mrs Faber, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u8	This isn't so much to the Prime Minister, it's to Mr. Kox. I'd like to correct something here. I did not say that the Muslims should leave the country. You put those words in my mouth. You also posted it on your Facebook. You're just lying like hell. I read the Acts early this morning. I did not say that all Islamists should leave the country. So, Mr. Kox, what you're saying is wrong. You're not telling the truth. In short, you're lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mrs Faber, of course, is a highly nuanced debate, so I understand that she attaches great importance to being quoted very precisely. Let me try to answer Mr Kox's question. I am indeed inclined not to respond to any provocation from Mrs Faber's party. I often have this discussion with friends, at school and in society, also with people with an Islamic background who are very annoyed by the style of the PVV. Here's what I'm gonna say. That may be true, but we have freedom of speech and we have an open democracy. This is also a party that sits in parliament. In the end, there are a limited number of seats in the Netherlands and the vast majority of people in parliament do not agree. I even think that most of the voters of that party do not agree and that they are voting for that party for a very different reason. We have to take that deep reason seriously. These are concerns that live with people, which ultimately brings them to a party like the PVV. In my opinion this is not because of the virulent anti-Islam sound I really don't believe that but the party from that is. I agree with Mr Kox that this is, of course, completely the opposite of what I have just said. We don't look at people's origins. We're looking at where they're headed. We don't look at people's beliefs. That's irrelevant. That's a private choice. That's an identity you make a choice in, besides maybe other identities, like I just said. That's not the government's concern. We have freedom of religion. We want to be a cabinet for the common Dutchman. By this we mean the normal Dutch family, the normal Dutchman who tries to move forward. We want to be a cabinet for anyone who wants to make something of his life and for anyone who is not able to do so, but who wants to move forward. For those people, we want to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u10	I think that the Prime Minister and I and many here are very much in agreement. It is important to note that the sound in this Senate is not that we would find it, but that we distance ourselves from it. I asked Mrs Faber yesterday: if you want to go through all these things you say you want to do, do you understand that this is going to affect our Constitution and the laws of this country? That's the border you can't cross as a political party, at least not if you've made an oath or promise here. Can the Prime Minister clarify that point too? You can say anything in this house. That's excellent. You can find anything in this country. That is what our Constitution says. But if you are going to say, as a representative of the people, "I want these things anyway, at any cost," then you are going to come into conflict with the system that is supposed to protect us all, namely the system of the Constitution and the laws, including our human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u11	Yes, but that reasoning is also risky, because we can change laws and constitutions. I don't know if that'll reassure people. I'd rather go a little deeper and look at questions like "what drives this society?" and "what are the underlying values from which these laws arise?'. Those underlying values are so deeply anchored in our country. I just mentioned them. That is also always my message to people who are afraid of these sounds, for that virulent anti-Islam sound of some parties. Then I say yes, but take a look at the great, large, large majority in this country. And yes, there are also problems. Let's keep naming them, too. There are also problems in the group of immigrants, but they are not related to Islam. They have to do with poor integration and over-representation in the wrong statistics. Nor should we discuss it because then we are afraid to be accused of some kind of anti-Islam sound. I see that at the moment there is the generation that is growing up now, let us say: the third generation of people who came to the Netherlands in the 1960s and 1970s and people who have recently come here as refugees are increasingly being used as a form of entertainment. I'll just call it that, because they have more fascination with this sound than they really do. People get used to it in that sense. They also see that this society is resilient to these trends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Kox, this is really close to this point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u13	Finally, on this point. This is the third comment on something that I think is very important. I very much agree with the Prime Minister that concealing problems is the most wrong thing we could do. I remember sometime in the 1980s in Tilburg City Council I suggested writing a letter to unemployed migrants who were difficult to get to work and offering them the opportunity to learn the Dutch language. There was then a motion in Tilburg City Council stating that I still had cryptofascistic tendencies. So I am very much in favour of naming problems, but there was no problem here yesterday and it was not said either: people are getting a letter saying 'go learn Dutch and join us'. No, it was said: you must lose your religion, because we do not think it is religion, and as long as you hold on to that religion, you are a second-class citizen here and you do not really belong here. It really hurts me that this noise is expressed here 100 years after the introduction of general democracy in this country. I think it should be contradicted. We cannot talk about reading the Acts of this Chamber in ten or twenty years' time and saying: it could all be said and we did not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u14	Agreed. I also confirm, by the way, that the tradition of the SP, with Jan Marijnissen, is one of naming problems and of standing up for these fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u15	What I have heard from the Prime Minister is very appealing to me. This is also true of the government's commitment to naming and paying attention to values that live in society and that bear our society. Thank you very much for that. It is also important to link this to the responsibility of citizens, but it still points the finger at society. That is important, but in all those contradictions you call them, that can be contrasts in the material field, but also cultural contradictions are also the attitude of the government itself. If the citizen experiences something, for example the displeasure you yourself write about in the coalition agreement, he wants to find a government that understands what lives with him. The citizen does not want to find a point of contact; he wants a government that is close and that also ensures that the rules that we have are complied with. This is fundamental to the citizens' sense of safety and comfort. That's really about the attitude of the government. I do see things on the subject of the government agreement, for example about the supervision of the services and that we are exactly in that, but is there a coherent policy of the cabinet on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u16	Yeah, I mean, there is. Perhaps it was included in the coalition agreement too scattered or too scattered, but from the formation I would like to say two things about that, first micro and then macro. I visited the Ombudsman for the first time a while ago, quite a long time ago. He showed me how they were trying to get rid of the way we as a government talk to people who have complaints and concerns from very legalistic letters that nobody understands to normal language. That means that you also call and see if you can solve a problem by contacting a municipality and by linking people to each other, so it's over suddenly. So it means that sometimes you try to mediaate a little. That's the microlevel. So I want to see the government: not as a kind of big moloch with a waiting menu, so of "choose zero or choose one or choose two," but approachable and human, as we all are. We all put our garbage on the street, I suppose, or we throw it in such a big bin nowadays, at least that has been introduced into my neighborhood now. We all do that ourselves. We're all just people in this society, too. It could happen to all of us that the government is in our way. That's at micro level. That's the personal thing. It is then a question of "how do we think our attitude or attitude should be?'. This is what I feel from the conversations in the formation. You will indeed see it again, as Mr Kuiper rightly says, in a number of places in the coalition agreement. It is, for example, about the need for supervision services, the government itself, to comply with the rules. If we are inherently inconsistent or if we use the power of the state in a non-democratic, inexplicable way in contact with the people of the country, then we have to consider it. After all, the government has that power, from the Tax Administration to the police. It is about the sword power, but also about the far more subtle power of supervisory organisations. They have an important function. That's where all great people work. But sometimes Kafka-like feelings can also arise with the best of intentions. I believe that this coalition has the ambition to resolve this where it occurs. That is also something that connects religiously and liberally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u17	I agree, also in general terms, very much. Now the question is whether that is invested. There are several ministers behind the table who all have services and inspections that are at work in society. Questions are asked, such as: how exactly is that going to happen? May I ask if this is going to be a generic policy? Is the signal now on all the ministries that we're going to pick that up the way you're saying now? I very much agree with that, but that is my question. If you yourself say that it is scattered in the coalition agreement, then my question is whether you can make it something more structural with each other now that we are really able to put things in order in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u18	That's the beauty of these considerations. Now that I have said this, this is really cabinet policy as far as it was not clear. My colleagues hear all this and are going to do so. Now, after seven years, I'm not naive in the sense that I think it happens because I say it. So I'm going to take up your challenges and see how we can anchor that a little more within the cabinet. In principle and initially, the Minister of the Interior is particularly responsible for this. But I get your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u19	Short, Mr. Kuiper. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u20	We have great faith in you, Mr. Prime Minister, only you have less time than Cort van der Linden. He had five years. That's how long your previous cabinet lasted, but this is confessional and liberal together for three and a half years. We have great faith in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u21	That depends on the formation of the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u22	Perhaps during the course of this day we can make it even clearer that it is not just management by speech, but also how the Minister of the Interior will do exactly that. Because the Home Office always has the task of coordinating all those services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u23	I'm gonna go check that out. My first reaction would be Home Office. But isn't that right? I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u24	I would like to continue in the sense of Mr Kuiper's questions on the role of example and the way in which the cabinet itself has interiorised the principles. The cabinet agreement speaks a lot about inclusive society. This is also in line with what you have just said, namely that you want values to be shared and that everyone has a role in society. That's very appealing to us. Yesterday, in my term, I showed on several points that our fear is that cabinet policy itself does not contribute to inclusive society. Think of reducing the bonding, raising the threshold to study and increasing the integration requirements. Perhaps you could say something about how the cabinet tried to strengthen and increase inclusiveness in that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u25	Yes, I will do so at a somewhat more abstract level, because these subjects will be mentioned in the more coherent speech. Let me first say that this is, of course, always a political consideration. It's a political choice where you draw exactly the line of protection. Where does protection become so great that it ultimately leads to insufficient activity, so that people do not feel enough space to take initiatives themselves? Indeed, take the example of the labour market. We are looking for a balance that may be slightly different from that of the previous coalition. That's all I can say. I think we should be honest about that. We're gonna put that line a little bit different from the last coalition. This coalition, let me talk about it, has set itself the goal of still providing a great deal of protection for permanent jobs. But we want a labour market that works for everyone, in which there are enough permanent jobs, but also opportunities for people who want to start a business or a one-man business in a zpp-like construction. This requires a different kind of looking, a rethinking of the different arrangements. Those will be political choices of parties. Then perhaps at some point the Socialist Party will say from its political tradition: we want to keep more protection for permanent jobs. It could be. We need to further develop this proposal and we are also talking to all kinds of social parties. But it could be. Then the conclusion might be: Rutte had nice words about inclusiveness and now that fixed contract offers just a little less certainty than before. Then my answer would be that that is a view, but that you could also argue that this would create an opportunity for more people to get a permanent job and that the economy would therefore have more growth. This will allow more people who are now on the sidelines to get to work. That is the counter-argument. But that's the social debate. We agree on inclusiveness and that type of terms, but you will always have a social and certainly a political discussion about the underlying choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u26	My group is struck by the fact that the cabinet opts for almost negative incentives rather than positive ones. It also assumes certain premisses: for example, that there is more employment if you have less permanent work. What my group lacks in this agreement is very clearly the hand-out to people who need a little more support. They are getting off on a number of points more captivatingly. Then you miss the pursuit of inclusiveness, because then you let people who just need a government that supports them do it alone. If they don't make it, you're strengthening the segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u27	Yeah, but I could, thinking out loud, put two things against it. At the same time, we can see that the income disparities are decreasing even further in this cabinet and they were not that big in the Netherlands. The gini score is reducing something. You can also see that the effects of this cabinet's policy package at the bottom lead to a slightly more purchasing power increase than at the top. That would be one. Then two. When it comes to negative and positive incentives, one could also argue that it will encourage employers to offer people a permanent job, if the labour market gets a little more into the balance that the cabinet is looking for. Then there is more employment for people who want permanent employment. So it's just where you end up putting the lamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u28	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u29	This is, in turn, the premise that I do not see sufficiently substantiated. My point is mainly about those who need a little more support. I think that the cabinet assumes too much: do your best, just get out of your situation and then you count. I miss the outstretched hand from the government to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u30	I don't agree with that. Because you can see that at the bottom the purchasing power increase is slightly greater than at the top. At the same time, you see that we have the ambition to want 20,000 extra sheltered workplaces in the coming years. These are all measures designed to help those who are weak and dependent on us as shields for the weak. I think there's a decent balance there. But we will certainly have the debate on that. At the same time, we must try not to make protection so great that it ultimately leads to less social dynamics, resulting in less economic growth and, as a result, less jobs, especially for people who are weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u31	I also have the impression that the cabinet is making an opposite movement on many subjects at the same time. I hear the Prime Minister now saying something about the purchasing power picture. I should just like to quote from the letter that Mr Koolmees sent to us on 27 October. If you look in that letter at the group that is falling 2% to 0%, you can see that it is 6% for people with less than 175% of the minimum wage and 4% for people with more than 500% of the minimum wage. I can quote a few more figures from that letter, but I am not going to do that because of the length of the debate. I do not see the purchasing power policy that the Prime Minister has just outlined again for the time being. There are also more opposing movements in the coalition chord at the same time. The cabinet says that stacking in education will make it easier, but there will also be selection at the gate in higher education. The cabinet says it wants to stimulate culture and invest in it, but it also increases VAT. The cabinet says it wants to stimulate healthy behaviour, but also increases VAT on sports, fruit and vegetables. Mr President, I know my classics and this reminded me a lot of the Swiss from Asterix and the Helvetians, who first join the Romans and then join them together. In my view, this results in a net standstill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u32	I remember especially the cheese fondue at Asterix, Obelix and the Swiss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u33	That is very good, because in the next few years I will be able to remind the Prime Minister of the whip, the stick and the lake with a weight on his feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u34	Oh yes, I had that aspect a little less keenly ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Schalk, isn't it? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u36	Otherwise, I would like to comment on this point. I'm gonna get to the income picture first. I heard that yesterday, and I thought there were two crazy things in there. As you can see, 94% of those who receive less than 175% of the statutory minimum wage in the Netherlands are making progress. 94%! If you look at the whole of the Netherlands, 5% of it goes backwards. 95% is improving. So that's 94% of people under 175% WML. If you look at the 5% that is going backwards, you can see that the vast majority of them, almost two thirds, are people with supplementary pensions. They are not the low-income people, they are middle-class or some higher-age people with supplementary pensions. Why is that? Because of the remaining indexes due to the lagging returns of pension funds. Then about the VAT. To be honest, I did not think that was the strongest part of the debate yesterday. What happened there is a classic debate trick: you take out one measure, you treat it in isolation and it all has terrible effects. Yeah, that's right if we were just going to increase VAT. Period. I would have fully agreed with Mrs Barth's speech, but we do not. That goes all the way back to lower charges. In fact, on top of that, the burden also goes further down, and of course this has far-reaching effects on small and medium-sized enterprises, which have a great interest in making people spend more. I checked it again. It's a funny fact that when the VAT was reduced, no more people went to the barber shop. Perhaps also because the hair continues to grow at a certain rate, regardless of the VAT increase. Yes, it is, except for Mr. Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u37	Painful subject. It saves you, it's a pretty good income advantage. VAT-neutral hair? We're going to process it in your salary. Without madness, a VAT increase that is entirely returned will, of course, also lead to more spending on small and medium-sized enterprises, especially if there are also substantial additional reliefs on top of that. In other words, we have to keep telling the whole story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mrs Barth, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to purchasing power development, there is a clear difference, because in recent years, together with the VVD, the Labour Party has worked in the cabinet to ensure that 100% of the Dutch would at least retain purchasing power. At least in the last two years, we have kept up a lot, especially for the elderly. Anyway, let's get back to VAT. Yesterday, in my contribution, I not only took into account the purchasing power effects of VAT, but I asked the Prime Minister to clarify the impact of the VAT increase on purchasing power. I would very much appreciate it if he were prepared to give us that insight at least as a Chamber, because there is no mention of it in the coalition agreement. However, I have also indicated that even if you say that the purchasing power plates on paper are all right in the end, you do not know what happens to the competitiveness of small retailers. Small retailers also find it difficult for reasons other than purchasing power development in the Netherlands. They are having a difficult time because of the crisis that is continuing, especially in border regions, especially in the shrinking regions. They are having a difficult time now as more and more small shopkeepers are facing fierce competition from buying over the Internet. Those little shopkeepers are very important to maintain the quality of life in the towns and villages. And their position is getting worse if they are forced to raise their prices or take on income cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u40	That is really not true, this argument is not true. I can be as sharp as you. This would be true if we increased VAT. Period. But first, back to income relationships. The cabinet will all take action in the coming years. All these measures lead to an average increase in income of 0.6% per annum and the highest of 0.5%. There is therefore more income increase in income below 175% than in the highest. That is the effect of this cabinet's policy package. 95% of all Dutch people are getting better. All income groups are improving. Yes, it is true that Labour Party and VVD have always tried to do so in the previous coalition, but then too, it never succeeded 100%. Never. There are always groups in the purchasing power clouds, in the points tables... As Diederik Samsom said so beautifully: "In all those corners there are kitchen tables with families." It is never 100% to guarantee that they are all improving. We see that, on average, the income disparities in the Netherlands will decrease slightly in the coming years. Then I'll go to the VAT. For this purpose, it strikes directly with households. That investigation Mrs Barth is asking for is no longer necessary, because I can answer it now. The increase in the low VAT rate is included in the purchasing power picture. It's just in higher inflation, so it's in the purchasing power picture. That affects all groups equally. The statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics on indirect taxes and expenditure show that expenditure under the low VAT rate is evenly distributed among income groups. A low-income person spends on average about the same share of income on goods with a low VAT rate as a high-income person. The measure is therefore not an essential explanation for any differences in purchasing power between groups of income. This is true of the income groups. Then to the effects on companies selling goods and services. I told you, the revenue from the higher VAT rate goes all the way back to lower taxes on labour and income. This therefore leads to a reduction in the burden. This leads to more purchasing power for families, to buy a book, to perhaps more often go to the hairdresser, et cetera, et cetera. This month, the Central Planning Bureau also published an investigation into the effects of the VAT increase in 2000, which I referred to earlier. In particular, hairdressers have been looked at as evidence that there is no significant effect of a VAT reduction on the use of these services. Now I come to Mrs Barth's question. The measure is still being transposed into legislation. This will, of course, focus on effects. The Secretary of State for Finance will also speak with specific sectors to see if there are any particular concerns there. All this comes back, and this can also be mentioned in the financial considerations. Basically, I can answer the question here and it comes back in more detail to the bill in which this whole tax package returns to the Senate immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u41	I've waited so long to get my hair done again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u42	Your hair is flawless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you. I would like to go back to the subject we were talking about, because otherwise we will be diving into VAT and the fixed and flex, and those cubes will soon be hollowed out. That would be a shame. I had the impression that we were talking about how to restore citizens' confidence in society. That doesn't work with Gini and the like, VAT and so on. I raised it here a few times yesterday. I asked Mrs Faber, but I do not want to go back on that now. There was one answer: de-Islamicisation. I've put that tone like, "You're gonna be in a complete void." I also asked Mr De Graaf this question, and he called it the $1,000 question. How can we regain confidence, unlike all fine words and such? Is there a beginning to the government's response to the question of how we can be reliable so that our citizens really think: this government is there for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u44	First of all, this is a shared ambition. We have made an analysis, including as forming parties, that there are groups of people in the Netherlands......................................................................................................................................................... It is our analysis that this is partly linked to the economic crisis and the fact that we have asked very much from people in the country. Part of the answer is to make sure that now that the crisis is over, people also experience in their personal lives that things are getting better. That is part of the answer, and that is in the reduction of burdens, in the necessary investments in defence and in matters that people consider important, such as security, education and so on. But it's not the whole answer. It also has to do with the attitude we adopt as government in relation to the people in the country. This has to do with predictability, whether our rules are understandable and whether they are equal for everyone, that people are treated equally, that the government is not a moloch. The government isn't serviceable, I don't believe in that, because we're not a store where you buy something. But we must realise here in The Hague that we are there for the whole country, for everyone, regardless of origin or future. That is also what Mr Kuiper just pointed out to me. Mrs Ollongren was not there, and I was able to give her a job that she is probably going to do anyway, namely to look very closely at how you deal with consistency in the handling of our control services, for example, and what effect they have on people. So it's en-and-and-and. It's coming out of the crisis and making us feel like we're out. It is an attitude in which we do not act as a shop with customers, because we are not, but we do realize that we are doing work for everyone in this country. When people are critical, we have to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u45	I think the Prime Minister mentions a few beautiful things, but especially when you look at the economic crisis that comes with it... I argued yesterday that trust begins with relationship. You already need that in your family, so to speak. But when things get bad in the family for once, it's not that the children immediately look at the parents with distrust. So we should not blame ourselves for the crisis. We should not say that this has made it difficult for people and that it has made us unreliable. I think it is indeed seeking out what you said in the second part of your speech, namely how we can establish a relationship. The government is a servant of God, to put it in a very beautiful way. The Bible says: servant of God, you for good. So that's what people should feel, that we're looking for what's right for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u46	Agreed. Given Mr Schalk's speech, I also agree that a crisis does not mean a loss of confidence, but it would help to reduce public confidence when the crisis is over and not take the measures to ensure that people feel that the crisis is over, after they have had to make a hard contribution to resolving that crisis. I believe that the fact that we can reduce the burden and invest in essential services is crucial. If we don't do that right, it will lead to a further decline in confidence. But this isn't the whole answer. We have also talked about failing integration, the role of citizenship and the role of the government itself as regulator, which also does so in consistency. These are a number of very important issues, in which we as a coalition have the ambition to pursue a consistent course. In doing so, we show that we are not sitting here for ourselves, but that the Senate, the Second Chamber and the Cabinet are there for this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u47	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the lagging purchasing power of people with a small pension. The Prime Minister states that this is due to the late return on pensions. Pensions are determined by the level of cover which is again determined by the government. The government continues to charge an interest rate of close to 0%. Meanwhile, pension funds have just achieved a return of 8% to 10% in recent years. How high should the return on pension funds be before pensions go along?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u48	This argument is dangerous, at least life-threatening, and it is financially dangerous for many families. If Mrs Faber were on the buttons, the line would be celebrated a bit. Then there is a little more available for the people who are now retired, but you really get the whole solidarity out of the pension system. Then why would younger people build up a pension? These figures are, of course, presented very unilaterally here. We know that there will be a lot of additional obligations on pension funds in the coming years, due to the ageing population, the financial review framework and the whole underlying system of how we deal with coverage levels. How this works in practice is ultimately a matter between employers and employees. It's not a government matter. We're just dealing with cross-compliance. We want a pension fund to be able to deliver if it promises something. Otherwise, it shouldn't promise. If the pension fund doesn't promise it, it doesn't have to deliver it. That is also up to employers and employees. If you just look at the higher returns and not at what's coming at us and so on, you'll drain the entire system. Young people get that quickly and then you lose all the solidarity. Then we destroyed the best-functioning pension system in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u49	The question remains for me to ask the Prime Minister how high the returns must be before pensions go along. I haven't gotten that answer yet. Should they achieve a 100% or 200% return? 10% is not enough, but it simply cannot be explained to the people who currently have a pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u50	On the question of whether pensions can be indexed at all or, if they cannot be indexed, if necessary, if they are able to take some part in inflation, without full indexation, I answer that this depends primarily on the levels of coverage. As far as determining all the parameters in the pension system is concerned, it is not the case that we do this with a shot in the air. This is done, of course, on the basis of solid advice from De Nederlandsche Bank and others. They advise us on what is wise given the developments in capital markets, investments etc., so that older people have a good pension and also young people can count on a good pension. The fact is that in recent years many pension funds have promised more than they have been able to deliver, so they have not been able to do a full indexation. This is also due to the disappointing investment results. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u51	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u52	As the Prime Minister knows, we have been counting on an interest rate of 4% for a very long time. We now have a yield of 8% to 10%. I still think the difference is huge. I don't think it's explaining to the people with a pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u53	This shows how important it is not Mrs Faber or me, or the two of us doing the prick in the air for the right parameters, but leaving it to the experts. This would be very dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u54	The Prime Minister is still in the "trust in government and politics" section. I think this is essential. We must reflect on this, a hundred years after we have decided to give all the voters in this country influence over the administration of the country. The problem is not whether the people of this country trust the government or the opposition. That's what we have elections for. The problem is that people no longer trust the system as such. That would really be the concrete rot in the system. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me that it is particularly important in these situations that we at least try to tell the truth and talk about reality as much as possible? He says, in response to questions from colleagues, that the good news for the population is that income disparities will be reduced in the future. Now there are two things possible. The Prime Minister is right, and I was wrong yesterday, or I am right, and the Prime Minister needs to nuance his ruling. I mentioned the Nibud's figures. A mother with a child on welfare will improve €15 over the next four years. A mother with a child with an income of €25,000 will improve €74. A mother with a child with an income of €60,000 or more will improve €168 per month. It can't be both true. Either the income differences are decreasing, as the Prime Minister says, or they are not decreasing. At least they don't take away for mothers with children, but increase them. That could be the result of policy. It may even be legitimised, but I think it is important that, when we talk about trust, we try to provide citizens with as fair information as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u55	Over the last few years, however, there has been a tendency not to look at the percentage increases but at the absolute amounts. 1% at €50,000 is more than 1% at €15,000. That's true. If that's what Mr. Kox means, he's right. If we now switch to increases in absolute amounts and not to percentages, let us loose a way of working that has helped us since, I might add, Joop den Uyl.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mr. Kox, I'd like a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u57	Wouldn't that be a reason to think about it? The Prime Minister says we've been doing this since Joop den Uyl. Since Joop den Uyl there are a lot of people in this country who say they are not paid in percent but in cents. When the Prime Minister says to a mother in welfare that she is improving as much as a mother with a child who earns €60,000 and then this lady finds out that in her case this is €15 and in the other case €168, she thinks: something is wrong here. Perhaps then we should think about the matter of expressing everything in percentage terms. This should be a tool, but it is not reality. Can the Prime Minister respond to that? Otherwise, we will remain in the situation of an equal income policy. This means that the people with a lot of money get a lot of money and the people with very little money get very little. People can't live by percentage. They live on and have to pay in pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u58	There are two elements in the answer. Firstly, in the Netherlands we have the legal minimum wage and the social minimum, to ensure that no one sinks through the ice and that people in very difficult circumstances have at least enough to spend on basic needs. The second is that if you were to do what Mr Kox says, you would have to go to another political system. That is more the system that operated in Eastern Europe until 1989: the ideal of possession is collective and we all deserve the same thing. That's not true. We have income differences in the Netherlands. There are also good reasons for this. Our society finds its basis in free enterprise production and a number of forms of economic organization accepted in the Rhineland model. This includes income differences. If you want to get rid of that, which is a political choice I wouldn't make, then Mr Kox is right. You cannot say that you accept income differences, but that you are going to express the increase in purchasing power in absolute euros. That's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Kox, really close to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u60	If the Prime Minister thinks he should support his argument by saying that if you want to have purchasing power development expressed in cents instead of percentage, then you want to go back to Eastern Europe, then I would remind him that his party had relations in Eastern Europe and my party was founded out of discontent about what happened in Eastern Europe. But that's all very, very long ago. Yes, your liberals were there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u61	The JOVD had very good contacts with the Kompol. I've been there. That was a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u62	Yeah, exactly. Anything is allowed, but you don't have to bring Eastern Europe in because I don't have anything to do with that. This is what this is about. If we have a system in which we always express income developments as a percentage, but reality means that people with very little money are making very little progress and people with a lot of money are making a lot of progress, should we not think about whether it is a valid system and whether it can affect citizens' confidence? They are not paid in percentage terms but in cents. You do not have to go to Eastern Europe for that, or to the past or to the collective possession of means of production? You can just answer that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u63	Yes, then let us leave Eastern Europe for a moment Eastern Europe and history history. But I do maintain my position. In a country where we accept that there are income differences and, by the way, have the tradition of keeping them manageable because we believe that income differences belong in themselves and that people who work hard, start a business or are successful and come forward and may feel that way in their wallets, I think that is a valuable element in our society. At the same time, we also have the tradition of keeping the differences in income a little limited. We also know that if they get too big, it leads to an increase in social tension. I think we are doing this in a very nice way in the Netherlands in an almost northern European tradition. Given that we accept that there are income differences, it is crazy to express wage increases or income increases in absolute amounts. You'll always have to express that in percentages of income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mrs Strik, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u65	Well, I have a question about that. If you look at the CPB pass-through, you can see that percentage-by-percentage the lowest income groups are making less progress. Perhaps the Prime Minister could come back to that in the second term, if he does not come back to that in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u66	No, I can answer that right now. This cabinet makes policy. If you ask about the passing on of that policy, you can see that the lowest incomes are more advanced by government policy than the highest incomes, 0.6% versus 0.5%. If you also incorporate the whole effect of the economy, you can see that the highest incomes are making more progress than the lowest incomes. I am, of course, looking at what we do as politics and how we interfere politically in the economy. Then you see that the effect of the policy package is that the lowest incomes are slightly more advanced than the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u67	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u68	Then I do not understand this table of the CPB and I do not think that is consistent with what the Prime Minister is saying here, because it really says that the lowest income groups are moving up 0.8% and the other 1.3 to 1.4%. That seems to me to be lower, also by percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u69	That is the whole economy, but we are here, of course, to talk about how we influence the economy as a policy, including the effects of all the measures taken by the cabinet. Then you see the lowest incomes rise by 0.6% and the highest incomes by 0.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u70	I ask the people in the Chamber to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to make a few meters with his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u71	Yes. When you go to a concert, you always look at how thick the score is that the conductor has. And it's pretty thick, on the wrong side, I say for those who want to be home in time for sintering class. The advantage of all these interruptions is that I have secretly made meters in my answer, but I would like to say a few things about the board. This is, for example, about how we ensure that enough people can actually get their hands on the team and get to work. CDA, VVD and other parties have asked questions about this. For us, it is important for professionals to be able to perform their work properly. Previous Cabinets have also done a great deal for this. This has also led to concrete results. You can see, for example, in the police that there is a very significant increase in the number of people who can actually work within the existing formation and do no more administrative work but are really now freed up for the police work, simply by removing a lot of bureaucracy there, but that does not solve the problem. It means that we will continue to look very critically at the police, in education and in health care how we can further ensure that professionals can actually get to work. A question that lives among others in the SGP circle, with Mr Schalk and others, is how to ensure that sectors are not discredited. It's true that we've seen some things lately, like the police department. We saw reports from the Defense Organization. Let me say on this point that it is true for this cabinet that incidents and abuses are unacceptable and that when employees go over the line, action must be taken and taken. If it is really serious that it also has criminal effects, then of course the Public Prosecutor will also interfere. I would like to say here that I have also followed these issues very closely and that it is not representative of the public sector. We have a beautiful public sector in the Netherlands, both police, Defense and the people in education and health care who may be working more indirectly but also have important tasks, as well as the government itself. Really, we may be blessed that there is so much talent there from the interest they put in doing things in their lives that have a direct effect on other people.This is called "meaning" in good Dutch and so many people still choose a job in that public sector and do fantastic work there. But things aren't going well either, and we have to deal with them. I have all kinds of lyrics here about what happened to the Defense Department and the police, but those letters were sent to the Chamber about how we dealt with them. I think I have enough to say here that I agree with Mr Schalk, but I hope he agrees with me. I see him nodding in agreement that we have a fantastic public sector and that is precisely why we need to address abuses to show that we stand for the overwhelming majority of people who do make a positive contribution. Then there was the question of what exactly the agreements that are being concluded mean for the public domain. It is true that there is talk of consultation with society in a single place in the coalition agreement. I'm not against that either. At the same time, this cabinet operates on the compass of territorial decentralisation and not functional decentralisation. For functional decentralisation we see less space. I believe that if you conclude agreements with all kinds of social parties but ultimately leave budgetary and political decision-making where it belongs and which does not give up, there will be no functional decentralisation and therefore no elements of increasing corporateism, as has been suggested here and there in contributions. Then about the reclassifications. The cabinet is of the opinion that, of course, I agree with the cabinet that it is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities to decide for themselves whether a reclassification is necessary. We have discussed this for a long time in the formation because, of course, there is quite a difference between the four parties that form this cabinet. We have also noted with each other that the provinces have a special task in this regard. I'm just looking at Mrs. Bijleveld who did that in her previous life. The provinces have a superlocal responsibility which also goes beyond the individual interests of municipalities. There may be reason at provincial level to take the initiative of reclassification, where this reclassification is not an end in itself but a means of strengthening administrative power. The passage on reclassifications in the coalition agreement also gives rise to a revision of the Municipal Reform Policy Framework. Moreover, the Minister for the Interior has consulted with municipalities and provinces on this matter. We want to try to finish that in the first half of next year, at least before the summer of 2018. Then the state committee, a sensitive subject in this Chamber. A number of questions have been asked. I read the passage in the coalition agreement in such a way that there is no extension of the committee's research mission but that it is more of a suggestion. My suspicion is that the committee itself does not look at this very differently, since it also refers to the question of constitutional review as well as innovations in the electoral system in its statement of problems, without specifically addressing the regional functions of electoral systems in the neighbouring countries. There are two questions which the committee also raises in its problem assessment and which are the background to these suggestions. This concerns the representative nature of our democracy on the one hand and the design of our legislative process and the checks-and-balances in that process on the other. As is well known, the opinion is expected next year. The Minister of the Interior will then come to an extensive discussion with the Chamber. So that's gonna be a relevant debate. But we, as a cabinet, do not think we have tried to do this, at least that was not our intention to secretly give the committee extra tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u72	I was just looking up the exact line. Perhaps you'd like to explain that exact phrase again, because I don't quite understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u73	Read him the exact sentence, because of course I know everything by heart, but just not that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u74	The last sentence, in the first bullet under "Choice System." It says: 'in the light of the regional function of electoral systems in the surrounding countries and of the initiative proposal for constitutional revision at second reading on Article 120 of the Constitution, including in relation to the position of the First Chamber'. We thought that was a special sentence. Explain to me, what is that supposed to mean as a cabinet? Or rather, what does your new coalition mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u75	We do not mean that we want to get rid of the First Chamber, on the contrary, that does not live in our cabinet. In any case, it is not a cabinet policy, just to say it right here and to keep the atmosphere right. In any case, that certainly does not apply to me, but I do not think that it is government policy, on the contrary. But the fact is that, of course, there is still a legislative proposal in force on constitutional review, and that the committee itself at least mentions this question of constitutional review in its exploration. But it is true, as I have just said, that this regional function of electoral systems and the position of the First Chamber are not explicitly mentioned by the committee. It is obvious, of course, because when you talk about constitutional review there are schools in the Netherlands. The committee will have to investigate this further now, but there are, of course, schools in the Netherlands that say: if you had that, is there still a need for a separate First Chamber? Or can you do both? Or do you want no constitutional review at all and do you want enough with the system as we have it now? That is the bicameral system, which is the starting point at the moment and on which the Cabinet has no plan whatsoever to propose amendments to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u76	If I hear you say that last thing, I'm gonna be more surprised. Then why does the phrase "partly in relation to the position of the First Chamber" appear? If you don't want to question that, I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u77	Because it would surprise me if the political conclusion were 'to have constitutional review', given political relations. But let's say that that would be the outcome. There's an initiative in that area from a few years ago, I thought of GroenLinks, which the committee is looking at. Then it's not crazy that you say: if you have a Second Chamber, a First Chamber and constitutional review, should you have a separate Senate besides that constitutional review?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u78	So you raise another question, when we say: you say on the one hand 'no, the First Chamber is not at all under discussion', and then you say 'but if they come up with that proposal, it will come up for discussion'. What is it? If it does not come up for discussion, then that question does not really need to be addressed to the committee either. So you don't have to establish the relationship with the First Chamber. And if you don't want to, I'd just forget that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u79	I find this strange, because that would mean that you say, which I hear no objection from Mrs Jorritsma, that you also want to include in your work, as the committee points out in an exploration, the question of constitutional review. And should you not say: then we also want to know what that means for the further parliamentary system? That's connected, isn't it? Surely you cannot deny that if you came to the conclusion about the constitutional review that I do not foresee at the moment, that would provoke a discussion about what that means for the bicameral system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mrs. Jorritsma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u81	I asked you: why put this in a coalition agreement now when there is simply a clear mandate given to the committee by the Second and First Chambers? It suggests at least something. You do not take away that suggestion with these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u82	No, but I can really do that here, because no decision has been made at the formation table, or an intention or underlying need "we can get off the Senate by way of a detour." No, on the contrary. If you look at the constituent parties of the cabinet and their traditions, I think that there is broad commitment in this coalition to the institution of Senate. But the fact is that if you ask that committee to look at it, even though it is doing so on the constitutional review itself, I would find it strange to close your eyes to the effect that constitutional scrutiny would have for the bicameral system. If you don't, that's crazy, because then you're gonna rule out part of the discussion. Then you should also say to the committee 'don't look at the constitutional review, let that go altogether'. That is another option, but the committee itself said in her reconnaissance that she is going to look into it. Then you should say "you call it in reconnaissance, but we don't want that." But if you do, I think you should also be willing to see how that relates to the system as we have it. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u83	If I may try to help the Prime Minister with the expression "honestly lasts the longest," I understand that Mrs Jorritsma is surprised at this sentence. Everyone's surprised about that, but I think there's something else. In addition to the fact that we are abolishing one referendum and not letting the other go through and so on, it also says 'the constitutional review, it will not be, because that will have consequences for the First Chamber and we do not want that to happen'. I think the Prime Minister thinks so. But would it not be better to say that this cabinet has actually come to the conclusion that "we are not going to proceed with that bill that has already passed this Chamber, that's passé, otherwise we will have to talk about the First Chamber." I think that's what's behind this, but the Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior has also been given the advice "you're going to have to abolish everything, let's put it another way." In my view, it says 'the constitutional review, we are not going to go on with that either'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u84	No, in the order of formation, the request was made to Mrs Ollongren to become Deputy Prime Minister after the conclusion of the coalition agreement. In formation and after formation. Parties in this coalition may have different views on all kinds of aspects of political reform. My party has views on this, other parties have their views on it. There's no Vorentscheidung here either way or the other way. However, I do find the inherently logical conclusion that if the committee is looking at constitutional review, you should say 'how does that relate to your existing parliamentary system'? If you don't, maybe you shouldn't ask that whole question. Then you must say to the committee 'don't look at the constitutional review'. But if you do, and the committee recognises in its own exploration that she is going to do so, then it is strange to say that 'that should in no way reflect on the existing parliamentary system'. I think that's crazy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u85	In such a whole score one note that doesn't sound completely clean is of course also difficult. In this case, it might have been wiser if the two Chambers had been mentioned in the coalition agreement instead of just the Upper Chamber. At least that raises some sensitivity in this Chamber. But apart from that, I heard you say well, and I hope you will repeat that, so the cabinet is not going to change the mandate and the decision of the state committee. In that case, this is a useful signal for the State Committee, but it is not an extension or a redrafting of the mandate of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u86	That's right. Moreover, I do not think that Mr De Graaf's suggestion is wrong at all to include, where the coalition agreement is concerned, the effects that that has on the Senate, that is not to be included in the coalition agreement, because that is to be changed into, or read as, 'the effects on the bicameral system'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u87	And the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u88	Yes, but I don't want to argue about that, Mr. President! This is taking things too far!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u89	Any others? Finally, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u90	I conclude that it is actually an empty sentence. It is a remark in the coalition agreement, but there will be no new mandate. If that's the conclusion, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u91	There will be no extension of the research assignment. In fact, the committee itself has said in its reconnaissance that it is going to look at this. And perhaps Mr De Graaf here will take the sting out of the debate by agreeing where'senate' is to read 'the bicameral system'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u92	Finally, Mr Kuiper, because I think we are done with this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. I hope that I can add another element, because the sentence begins with the electoral system and then actually involves that passage on the election of the House of Representatives. Now this House has also debated the election of the First Chamber. For me, therefore, the sentence was not clear either, nor do I see the necessary link between constitutional review and the significance for the two-chamber system. But the whole discussion started because in a previous cabinet period the VVD group in the Lower House said: shouldn't we even think about lifting the First Chamber? My group has always warned that this would become a kind of connotation with the whole operation of the state committee. And indeed, you are pressing on a very sensitive point here. However, I would like to ask you what you mean here by changing the electoral system, which is limited to the House of Representatives, but which also refers to the position of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u94	I'm going to do exegesis here and come back on it, because I don't have the exact lyrics ready as soon as possible. The question is clearly understood. I'll get back to you in second term. As you can see, the carefully maintained unity in the VVD is not always complete, given Mrs Jorritsma's intervention just now. That is interesting and also good for democracy. Then there's the referendum. I do not have much more to say about this than that we have agreed in the government agreement on the Wrr, the consultative referendum Act. This is now in the hands of the Council of State. As soon as the piece is back, we will of course write a further report, after which it will go to the House of Representatives. I do not understand the accusations that Parliament should have known that this document is now going to the Council of State, because we never do that in a legislative proposal. I've always learned in school that the government or a MP makes a law. It then first goes to the Council of State, after which it is submitted to the Council of State. In my view, therefore, the order is still correct under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u95	Can the Prime Minister confirm that an urgent procedure has been requested? Is it the intention to get the law settled by 15 March when the next referendum is planned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u96	The first is yes, the second is no. The first is yes because the cabinet believes that urgent advice is needed here, since the coincidence of the repeal of the consultative referendum law is poorly related to the referendability of other legislative proposals that are still in the pipeline. We therefore want to act urgently in this respect, but the aim is not to do so before 15 March, no. Nor is the aim to do it before 21 March. That is probably an even more sensitive date; perhaps the speaker also referred to that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u97	I would like to clarify this point. The Prime Minister says that the intention of the urgency of the proposed law is mainly due to the referendability of other laws. Does that also mean that it has nothing to do with being referendable to this law? Does it also mean that the cabinet does not intend to make the referendum law referendable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u98	I hope you will allow me to say at this point that it is good practice that a bill is only finished when it is finished and when it is submitted to the House of Representatives. That is after consulting the Council of State. I repeated that at my press conference on Friday. Apart from the question of whether it is exactly in the legislative proposal, because it will not be known until later, the Minister of the Interior and I see that it is illogical to repeal the Advisory referendum Act and then hold an advisory referendum on the Advisory referendum Act, which has already been repealed. That's gonna be a bit of a Droste can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u99	Although Mr De Graaf is, of course, right that there can be no opinion from the Council of State, the Council of State has said so in advance. That's very exceptional. A spokesperson of the Council of State has said that it is obvious that this repeal law is normally referendable and that, when the cabinet introduces an emergency element, it will be looked at very critically. These are not, in fact, words with which the Council of State normally comes out. Does the Prime Minister appreciate that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u100	Well, that wouldn't fit me. I suggest that we follow the proper order of the state law. Then I come to Saint Martin, on which a few comments have been made. Secretary of State Knops has done a good job here in the last few days. The situation in Saint Martin is now such that we hope to be able to move quickly, in addition to the emergency aid that is under way, to make a more structural contribution to the reconstruction of the island. There were a few stones to remove from the shoe before they could. It is important that the large amount of money that the Netherlands is willing to put into it is well spent. This requires that all the necessary conditions are in place in terms of integrity and that border control is also properly regulated. Those wishes were not politically motivated, but content, to ensure that we can also explain to the Dutch taxpayer what we are doing there. I think it is good to note that the interim government is now moving in the right direction and with the reports that this week, I believe on Thursday, the rules on the integrity room will hopefully be dealt with. Then the question of Aruba and the possibility to use the Dutch interest rate, i.e. borrow with due regard to the Dutch position on the financial markets. I can report that this has been agreed. Opportunities for borrowing through the current tender will be assessed on the basis of the national and internationally applied criteria for sustainable public finances. The College of Aruba financial supervision is still very concerned about achieving the standards set out in the country regulation Aruba temporary financial supervision. At present, it should be concluded that further improvements are needed in public finances. A new government has taken office, which will continue to work on it. The Eman administration has already done good things, but it's not quite finished yet. The new government is moving forward with visible steps towards sustainable public finances. If that happens, we can see how Aruba can participate in ongoing tenders, but it will have to meet the minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u101	I understand that reasoning. I note, however, that if we were prepared to grant cheap loans, it would be considerably easier and faster for Aruba to reach the required point. That makes it even more difficult in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u102	I can see that point. I have also spoken about this with the Minister who has recently left, who has also presented this to me. I can see the whole point, but this is obviously the difficult chicken-and-egg problem that the chicken has to deal with. Basically, the financial plans must be in order. If so, current tenders may be used under conditions. The fact is that Aruba currently still has a government debt of over 80%. That's for a small island state really about 50% higher than they can have. They can't actually handle much more than 30% to 40%, while they have a government debt of over 80%. In this sense, public finances are therefore not yet healthy in the long term. A number of things were said yesterday about the number of ministers. I've got a lot of numbers here, too. Mr De Graaf rightly pointed out that we have a much smaller number of ministers. The plan was to have more secretaries. During the negotiations on Purple plus in 2010, we also looked at this, as I texted him yesterday. I think that we now have a good balance in this team between the number of ministers and secretaries of state. Whether or not this is the case will have to be demonstrated by our functioning, but in the first few months at least we expect that this will have been achieved. Then about the developments in Groningen with the coercive fines. It is true that in a very rare case, fortunately, the few cases of shopkeepers' associations impose fines when shops are not open on Sundays. We're not for that. I understand, moreover, that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mrs Keijzer, is very soon sending a letter on this matter to the House of Representatives. I'll ask her to send a copy of that letter to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second issue, security, on which I will say a number of things. One of the points made in the first term was about the city/region/rural balance sheet. Police capacity must be used to the full. This also requires good choices, which the Minister of Justice and Security is also working on. There will be a substantial additional investment so that we can achieve all the ambitions of the coalition agreement. We will, of course, keep a close eye on this balance. The progress letter realization of national police 2017 will be published shortly. In it, Minister Grapperhaus will inform the First Chamber and the Second Chamber about the distribution of operational strength. A lot has also been said yesterday about the Chicken Commission. On 16 November, she presented the final report to the Lower House and the Upper House through the Minister of Justice and Security. As we all know, the evaluation committee in the report has given considerable attention to the process and legislative process. Critical notes are being cracked about the process. It has been concluded, among other things, that the recalibrate had positive elements, for example, because the much-needed reset took place as it was called in jargon, but that there are also critical notes to crack. The main conclusion of the report is that no further major renovations are needed, but a well-considered step-by-step development of the national police. That is why the report is called "Evaluating Police Act 2012 Developing and improving." The plan is now that the Minister of Justice and Security will present a cabinet position to the two Chambers, to the States General, in the first trimester of 2018. Furthermore, in December the Court received the Minister's progress letter on the state of play in the formation of the national police force. Given that everything is of course not about evaluation committees, but my concern would be that, if the Chamber is going to carry out a large parliamentary inquiry, this would entail the risk, I might say, of delaying the police, because there is a risk that this will be looked at and that things will then wait. I say this here because it is my feeling that the Kuijken Committee has found a good balance and is critical. We can also draw lessons from it, so perhaps it is an option, I say very politely, but again, I can only make a suggestion here that a decision on a parliamentary inquiry awaits the response of the cabinet to the Kuiken report and the debate on it. If there is still a reason for a parliamentary inquiry, this is perhaps a time for a decision to be taken. Anyway, I'm going far beyond my powers now, because once again, that's up to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u103	It is indeed up to the Chamber to decide whether it is to initiate a parliamentary inquiry. I would like to inform the Prime Minister that, if the Chamber so decides, a parliamentary inquiry in the First Chamber is of a very different nature and is very different from the well-known parliamentary inquiry or the poll of the Second Chamber. I think that the Prime Minister is a little afraid of that, in the sense that that would have an enormous paralyzed effect on the police. I do not believe that there is an independent administrative body that has not been able to function paralyzed because the Kuiper Committee in this Chamber has advised on privatisations and autonomy in the public sector. I don't think that's too bad. My question would be, apart from the specific response to the Kuijken report: if the Prime Minister himself looks back on the last seven years, from the moment the decision was made to the national police, does he not feel that it might have gone a little too quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u104	Yeah, I think it went faster on parts than it did afterwards. I am very pleased that we have introduced the national police. I'm also glad Kuijken wrote his report. I would like to thank him and his committee very much for this because it also provides us with many tools for further development. I would like to limit the reflection on the introduction of the national police to that remark, otherwise I would be very much ahead of what, I think, the Minister should be able to do, also because he can look at it with a fresh look. He wasn't involved in the introduction, so he can reflect on it par excellence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u105	Following on from what Mr De Graaf says, I think it is reasonable and obvious that we should be given the cabinet juice appreciation of the Kuijken report. I think that's a good thing, but we shouldn't confuse these things too much. The government, as I said yesterday, must, above all, continue to get the police in order. That is a matter of national importance, I might add. That report is extremely useful. What this Chamber should do, at least that is my group's proposal, which is supported by several groups, is to look at how we have made this law so, with so much interference from both houses and from the government, and how it can be that the end result is not what we wanted, at least not yet. That is the lesson of Parliament, as was the case with the first study. In this sense, the Prime Minister does not have to be afraid that our investigation would stand in the way of the further development of the police. No, it's got to be a backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u106	I have two comments to make. Mr Kox's speech perhaps underlines precisely the idea that it may be appropriate to take a decision only if the cabinet response is there because it is an integral part of the evaluation. The difference with Kuijken's research into privatisations is that this was a wide-ranging study, while it focuses very much on one public service. The First Chamber should not underestimate that such an investigation will also have effects on the organization, but once again, that is ultimately up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u107	The Prime Minister states that he does not want to go too far on the subject now because the cabinet will return to the report of the Kuijken Committee at a later date. At the same time, he has quite an opinion on what we as a Chamber should or should not do with it, and that raises a number of questions. I hear the Prime Minister say that the Kuijken Committee does not advocate a total reset. In fact, this is not done in the sense that the committee is in favour of turning back the national police or putting in very fundamental new reorganisations, but the Minister of Justice receives no less than twelve strong recommendations in the report, as many as were needed at the time to get the smallest possible majority behind the law in the First Chamber. There are rather strong recommendations, for example that the competence for collective bargaining should be transferred to the Chief Constable. One of the recommendations is also: 'Centrally decentralised balance - Policy and management frameworks that give sufficient scope for local and regional tailor-made and differentiation and that are complemented consistently and at all levels by jointly formulated regional and local security targets'. That is precisely what our group drew attention to yesterday: the local embedding of the police, the extent to which mayors are able to fulfil their responsibility for local public order. That is a very serious concern. I would therefore very much appreciate it if the Prime Minister could give us some more details on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u108	I have two comments to make. The police, of course, have two tasks: detection and public order. As far as public order is concerned, the relationship in the triangle with the mayor is of great relevance. That remark is justified in itself, but precisely because it is so, I think it would be wise for the Minister of Justice and Security to discuss these recommendations with the mayors before I reflect on them now. I'd really like to follow the order I suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u109	Okay, we are waiting for that, but I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister would answer the question as to why the De Graaf motion has not been implemented and why the relationship between local government and the police has not been strengthened by transferring responsibility for the police back to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u110	Here you see the cooperation that Mrs Barth and I have been building for five years, because that is exactly the next question on my pile. Why did the cabinet choose not to carry out the De Graaf motion? That is PvdA Question 6, oral question. The answer is that we have made a different political assessment. That's the honest answer. By the way, we have internally mapped out what you should do to bring the police back under BZK. That has been looked at technically, but in the end we in the formation and in this coalition decided to hold Justice and Security together. After a long discussion, that's what happened. It was really a substantive discussion, in which it was ensured that the prosecution, the police and the judiciary were governed by a single ministry. However, a cut has been made in the task package between the Minister of Justice and Security and Minister Dekker for law enforcement. It shows that certain choices have been made, including in the portfolio distribution. In the end, we thought it wise to keep the public order task, the investigative task, the justice system and the police together. That has been a political consideration in the formation. Then there is something about what is in the government agreement on a number of matters relating to the police collective agreement. These are points that we would like to see modernised, also in the light of the working conditions consultation. A question has also been asked about the criminal justice chain. The government agreement includes an amount of up to 20 million in structural terms for the chain effects of investment in the national police. They're also being investigated. There is a division between the chain organisations, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this way, we can also take the necessary appropriate measures in the field of ICT. Then there is the question of the rule of law as such. I did not agree with Mr Kox that our rule of law is in danger of falling. I think we're in the top three of the world, right behind Sweden and Switzerland. We should really be proud of our rule of law and how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u111	If that's what I said, that's what's wrong. I think I said, 'I can read it in my text from then on that we are at risk of falling down on a number of points.' That's more of a quote from a hearing we've had here with eminent people like the former chairman of the Supreme Court and others. Our rule of law is fine, but on parts we risk sinking. And that is not my conclusion, but the conclusion of a panel that we have had the floor in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u112	Okay, got it right away. Agreed. Moreover, as far as its content is concerned, the coalition agreement lays down a clear mandate on legal aid. The system of subsidised legal aid is revised and designed along the lines of the Wolfsen and Van der Meer committees. Existing budgetary frameworks are maintained. No jurisdictions are excluded. The aim is to provide a system of high-quality legal aid where necessary by the legal aid provider most designated for this purpose. Sometimes that can be a legal window, sometimes it's a specialized lawyer or a mediator. And that is what we are now going to work on along the lines set out in the coalition agreement. The plan is that the Minister for Legal Protection will inform the Chamber about this in the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u113	That text from the coalition agreement is well known. I have said for a reason that, as far as we are concerned, it is a bit economical, precisely because it says 'the existing budgetary frameworks'. In fact, you have to conclude that the Van der Meer report is difficult to implement within the existing frameworks. That's where the stinger is. In any case, I would like to ask the Cabinet, in particular the Minister for Legal Affairs... I was just saying law enforcement, but I think that's right in front of the other minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u114	Legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u115	Yeah, legal protection. I would ask you to send a letter to this Chamber as well how he thinks that the Van der Meer Committee can be implemented within that existing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u116	Or that we involve it in the bill or in the elaboration of the plans. I hear what Mr De Graaf is saying, but I can't here... The Minister for Legal Protection and I also think the Minister for Justice and Security will be delighted with this call for more money, but I must also, of course, keep an eye on the financial balance in the entire cabinet, especially now that the treasurer is not here. So I get this request. I can't say anything about that right now, but I've listened to it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u117	I am glad that the Prime Minister interprets my words so much that it was already a call for more money. That wasn't even supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u118	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u119	I merely asked whether the cabinet, through the Minister for Legal Protection, could explain again whether the Van der Meer report could actually be implemented within those existing frameworks. If you come to the conclusion in advance that that is not possible, then I fully agree with you that more money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u120	This is even more sensible, Mr. Chairman. I smell a two-stage rocket, where stufe 1 is to see how the existing budgetary frameworks relate to the investigations, without prejudging a second step. That is even better and even more sensible, but well: the Minister has listened. On occasion. Then a question has been asked about trafficking in human beings. We have announced measures in the coalition agreement, including the ban on pimps also mentioned by the Christian Union. A number of important steps are being taken, I think, to prevent abuses in prostitution and in the fight against trafficking in human beings. By the way, we need the municipalities very badly. The approach to trafficking in human beings, including the attention to alerting, is discussed with several parties: the police, the public prosecutor, of course the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and the strategic consultation on this issue. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security is working on a plan for further intensification, in line with the ambition of the coalition agreement, and these talks with the municipalities are thus also being undertaken. Then there was a comment about canton judges and mediation. That would then lead to the introduction, I thought, of Sharia courts. Well, at least that's not the plan. There are some false assumptions in that theorem. It is not the case that in the pilot neighborhood judges should be relieved by mediation. Professional judges will be used in the pilot with neighbourhood judges. The reason why we want to do this is that we think it is important that justice is visible and accessible to all and that justice can quickly contribute to real problem-solving. Then there was the question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u121	The question was more about mediation. We were talking about the neighborhood judges who would be supported by mediation. My question was to the Prime Minister whether he can rule out mosque authorities playing no part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u122	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u123	Exclude that they're gonna play a role. Thank you, Mrs Barth, I said it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u124	And church boards are allowed to play a role?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u125	I'm not talking about church boards. I'm talking about mosque boards. By the way, Church governments should not play any part in this. My question is, once again, with this mediation: can you exclude mosque authorities from playing a role in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u126	Well, Mr President, I am not so expert on mediation that I know exactly who is involved, but I think there was a suggestion here that Mrs Faber said it would be introduced through a back door to Sharia in the first place. We can rule that out. But who exactly plays a role in mediation and who I can or can't rule out in advance, I'll come back to that. Then there was a question about, of course, hemp cultivation. Yeah, there it is. A few questions have been asked by several speakers. The Minister for Security and Justice, Justice and Security, sorry, there goes another euro, and the Minister for Medical Care is currently in the process of shaping the mandate of the government agreement on the experiments with pot growing. Together they prepare the laws and regulations. The aim is to see whether and how weed can be decriminalized, and whether and how quality-controlled weed can be decriminalized to coffee shops. There is therefore no question of legalising the cultivation of pot, but of a limited experiment with growing pot for recreational use. This means that outside the experiments, i.e. in the vast majority of the Netherlands, all weed cultivation remains prohibited. In addition, it is, of course, very important that we tackle drug crime. That is also being intensified. I agree with the importance of this, as do the chain partners of the Ministry of Justice and Security, OM, police, municipalities, Tax Administration, Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations and Finance. That is why the Future Agenda has also been prepared undermining the fight against undermining. The mission of this cabinet is to facilitate these parties in their approach, financially, but also through the necessary legislation to remove unnecessary bottlenecks in the approach. That is why 100 million have been released once and 10 million have been structuralally. Minister Grapperhuis of Justice and Security is currently looking at how this policy can be consolidated together with all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u127	With those last sentences, the Prime Minister of mine could have gone on, because that must of course be done, the fight against drugs and drug crime. I still cannot understand how that relates to the fact that the State is going to do something about pot growing. Would he still like to try to convince me that that's useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u128	I am not going to convince Mr Schalk. I'm sure that's not gonna work, because he really doesn't think like this cabinet, and I respect that. We also heard his colleague on the other side say nice things about that, at least in terms of debate. Not in substance, of course, but in terms of debate. I don't think I'm gonna convince the SGP of that. Why we want to do that is very simple that we have talked about it for a very long time at the table. There were parties who would like to stop completely with coffeeshops and other parties who say: release it completely. We have talked for a long time about the bizarre situation that there is in itself a tolerance policy, but that at the same time the leprechauns deliver it and then it is available at the front of the shop. This is a complex issue, including the quality and the criminalisation that surrounds it. On the other hand, a number of MPs from D66 and CDA have worked very well to formulate this very precisely, and that has finally landed in the coalition agreement. We have made very precise agreements on how we want to shape these tests, in such a way that we can also draw conclusions on how to deal with the whole drug policy in the future. I can already see that I have not convinced Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u129	In no way, no. Because you say, on the one hand, we need to reduce the drug burden or the drugs. That makes sense. I think that anyone in this Chamber who has somehow had to deal with people in their immediate vicinity who have been in contact with drugs says, of course, we should not want this. And then we come up with a weed law! I just can't match that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u130	From the content, of course, different schools compete here, possibly also in the coalition. Just look at the election programs of the parties sitting here at the table. The good thing is that we have not found a kind of middle here, but we have really come to a stand-alone conclusion on the basis of the discussion. The discussion took place between parties who say that you should ban the coffee shops altogether, as Mr Schalk also suggests, and parties who say that you are at risk of people looking for that shit and then going into environments and circuits where much harder forms of drugs are sold. You then have much less control over it and the transition from soft drugs to hard drugs becomes easier. That's the other school. So one school says, "Keep it hard, don't do it, don't tolerate it, stop it altogether." The other school says, if you do, you run the risk of people switching to heavier drugs. That is what you want to avoid, and that is actually the basis of the Dutch policy of tolerance. It's all garbage. We also know that it is not without risk what is being used. But it is a fact that there is that question and that a ban could indeed lead to a switch to hard drugs. At the same time, it is not certain that you will get rid of it altogether, as other parties suggest. We have talked a long time about this and we have considered all this, we have said: let's at least see how you can decriminalize everything around the coffee shop. Can we do that? Let's do some tests and tests with that. This is now being designed by Ministers Bruins and Grapperhaus in order to obtain information and insights. This is a difficult dossier, because my conclusion after 15 years in politics is that this is not a file in which one or the other school is by definition right. This is so complicated and has so many aspects! For the supporters of the theory "where there is a question, there is a market" it also has a kind of inherent logic that you don't just get off completely. That's why I think it makes sense to do these tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u131	Finally, Mr Schalk, because the point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u132	Very briefly. Sure, it's very clear. Once these tests have been carried out, I think it is very good that they should at least come fully to this Chamber, so that we can make sure exactly what has been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u133	That does make sense to me. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't, because this is just meant to gain insights. Then we shouldn't keep that a secret. Then, of course, there always comes the painful question: fun, all these experiments, but you wanted to get rid of smoking, didn't you? Yeah, that's true. That's the answer. Mr Kuiper is right, of course, but it is both true. The ambition is a smoke-free generation, but the fact is that between dream and act is at least some time. Mr. Chairman. I come to socio-economic policy. I have already addressed a number of questions about VAT and purchasing power, which is the benefit of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u134	Mrs. Barth, about the weed? Or is it done with the weed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u135	No, Mr President, but apparently the Prime Minister is closing the block on the rule of law and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u137	In my first term, I had asked him a number of questions about the situation in the criminal justice chain in a broad sense. I've asked him questions about absenteeism at the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, the influx and interest in the appeal. I asked about ICT projects, communication and exchange between police, Public Prosecutor's Office and judges, and about the imposition and execution of community service sentences. We have found that investment is being made in the national police force, but neither or hardly in the incumbent and standing magistrate, and we are concerned about the quality of the criminal justice chain as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u138	I answered some of the questions about the amounts going up to 20 million structuralally for the chain. On this basis, appropriate measures will also be taken in the field of ICT, including the transfer of a case to the judiciary. It will take some time before all those chain effects become exactly visible. I thought I had also dealt with these issues in part in a number of comments on the functioning of the rule of law. But I also hear a few questions that I don't have here in my pile. I'll see if there's any official listening, because I'll take it back in the second term. They're not here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u139	That's gonna be in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u140	That's fine, Mr. Chairman. I have also asked for a number of figures. It's also fine if the Prime Minister will deliver it to us later on on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u141	I'm going to try to do it orally, because we didn't bring all those officials to send letters, of course, but if there's no other way, we're going to find one who'll write a letter. But we're gonna see what can be done orally in second term. We are still analysing Mrs Barth's input on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u142	Before the Prime Minister closes this block, the PVV had asked how much longer the police will continue to participate in the fortifications in uniform. Shouldn't the police be neutral? In short, police and Islam must be divorced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u143	Well, I think we're very happy that the police are deep in the capillaries of our society. This means in some places Islam, in others a football match, in others a divine service and in others a stamp association. Let's be happy about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u144	It is striking that the police always report proudly in the media that they are at the eitar, but that you never hear, for example, that they are at an Easter breakfast somewhere. Just so we're clear, I'm not okay with that either. I understand, of course, that the police are in the eiftar, because they know that's where the problems are. In an attack or whatever "Allahoe akbar" is always called, but never "Jesus saves," so there is a difference. That is why I am asking you again. The police should simply be neutral and should not be sitting there in uniform in the mosque at the eiftar, especially not on his knees in uniform in the mosque.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u145	If the PVV were to congresse, but they can't, because they don't have any members.The police would also be there to provide security. Then they're not suddenly for the PVV, are they? I really don't get the point. Good. Then we come to socio-economic policy, Mr President. Again, I have already answered a number of questions. Mr Brinkman said: we only know one paradise, but the newspaper talks about 53 paradise. A relevant point! In response, this cabinet has decided to continue, of course, the fight against tax avoidance. We do this internationally within the OECD and the European Union, but also with national measures. For example, we introduce withholding taxes on dividends, interest and royalties, on outgoing financial flows to low-tax jurisdictions and abuse situations. Much has also happened in the context of the European Union, such as the directives on greater transparency and on tax avoidance. For example, look at the two ATAD guidelines. They are also being implemented vigorously. Today the Ecofin Council will be taking place, which is why Minister Hoekstra of Finance is not here either, and I will check whether Secretary of State Snel...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u146	There isn't gonna be any soon. I reported that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u147	He's probably in there, too. The Ecofin Council today establishes a blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions that do not meet the requirements of transparency and harmful tax competition. We are therefore in favour of the European measures that help to combat tax avoidance. International mismatches can only be addressed internationally. Of course, we will always pay attention to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. I have the suspicion that further questions will be raised in the General Financial Reviews. There may be questions about cross-border, non-ground economic activities. But maybe we can understand that behind the scenes. We were just trying to figure out exactly what that meant. I think it's about digital companies. I'd like to know, so I can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u148	That's okay with the General Financial Reviews. The question was whether these cross-border activities should not be discussed elsewhere than in the national capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u149	Okay. Since you added "non-ground" to it, I thought for a moment that you meant "digital," but it is therefore wider. Fine. We give this to the people who are preparing the AFB, so that we can answer that question properly there. Then there was a question from the OSF about shifting tax opportunities from the Empire to provinces and municipalities. The fact is, as a coalition, we have looked at that. There have been a number of variants on the table. In the end, we decided not to. There is now a whole package of fiscal and social measures which does not include an extension of the municipal tax area. That is a political choice we have made. Can the Tax Administration, as early as the CDA, implement the government agreement taxly or are there any reservations regarding implementation due to the state of affairs with the Tax Administration? A six-month report from the IRS was sent last week. It's a tricky theme. We have always kept in close contact with the Tax Administration as to whether on the basis of all available information the service could test whether our plans could be assessed, both in terms of impact and in terms of date of introduction. As it all stands, that is the case and the Tax Administration says: yes, it can. This means, however, that we are aware that, when we work out all these measures in legislation and regulations, we will always take into account the impact of the implementation perspective for the Senate on the basis of introduction tests. This has, of course, already been done for the measures in the 2018 Tax Plan, and this is still going to happen for the other measures. In itself, on the basis of the information we have, this is feasible, but we will always further support it by legislative proposal, per Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u150	The Prime Minister so explicitly mentions 2018 but my question was to what extent the feasibility of the government agreement in the fiscal sense is feasible for the whole period. Or should we expect at a later date the Tax Administration's communication that the coalition agreement is complicated? Let that be discussed further in the Financial Reviews, but that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u151	I understood that question correctly. For 2018 it has already been substantiated in the Tax Plan that it can be done. For all plans after 2018, the cabinet has already been in contact with the Tax Administration and the answer of the department was: this can also be done. However, I do think that we should demonstrate this to the Chamber in performance tests, as we are supposed to do. But the answer from the Tax Office is: yes, what you are planning now, we can do. This brings me to a sensitive issue, namely the tax burden on a single earner. Mr Schalk has drawn attention to this. First of all, I should like to mention the positive news, as I say to his neighbour, Mr Kuiper, because that is something that is of interest to a number of parties in this coalition: a earner fully benefits from the measures of the coalition agreement. They have as much advantage as two-earers. An earner's mode is even the most advanced in this cabinet period for all households, on average 2% a year. This is almost the same per year as in the whole period between 2000 and 2018. It was then cumulatively 3%, now 2% in one period. So we are doing a lot for a earner, but at the same time it is also true that fully benefiting from the measure does not mean closing the gap that Mr Schalk has named or closing it altogether. It may get a little smaller, because purchasing power is growing a little faster than average, but of course there is still a gap. That is, of course, because a number of more fundamental choices have been made in recent years about the arrangements in our tax system. Once again, I am glad that for the coming years as a coalition we have managed to ensure that the single-earners themselves benefit a little more than average in the Netherlands. What else does this mean? Because we know that this is an appropriate point for the parties. We will continue, I can promise Mr Schalk, to look at further possibilities, obviously within a number of policy frameworks, such as employment effects and budgets. That's not easy. Mr Schalk knows that, I know that; we do not have to tell each other about that. That is a really complicated issue. This has also been discussed on the other side of the General Financial Reviews. This has led to further discussions between the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Governmentally Reformed Party and the Directors of Finance to see what the further possibilities are. I can also say that in December the Central Planning Bureau will present a study on the tax burden of a earner, which will also give us further insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u152	In short, Madam President, I am sure that this will be discussed next week. I have just seen that across the street by the Secretary of State, perhaps not knowing what you thought about it, the door to the Trêveszaal was slammed pretty tightly when it was about examining options for solving the gap for a earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u153	My impression is that there has been a misunderstanding. That has been said, as far as I understand, between the rulers of finance and the group of the SGP. This has led to follow-up talks, which are also about to take place. It is good that the relationships are such that we appeal to each other, that people do not run away angry but contact each other immediately. That leads to follow-up talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u154	Compliments, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u155	I'll get a little worried right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u156	It's never good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u157	Especially at this point. Because one aspect I do not hear the Prime Minister mention in this story. Does this cabinet, like the previous cabinet, attach great importance to the pursuit of women's economic independence and the non-taxation of working women? And is this new coalition just as keen on that? "Watch it carefully" is not very well formulated, but I'm sure the Prime Minister understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u158	Yeah, but that term "men and women" is starting to turn into a bit of 2016. So let's neutralize something. The cabinet attaches importance to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u159	Apologies, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u160	And I'll have to tell the PvdA!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u161	Equal Pay Day for women fell on March 8th this year. This means that on March 8, 2017, women in the Netherlands would only have earned the same amount as men had earned by the end of 2016. When it comes to women's economic independence in the Netherlands, there is still a real world to be won. That also needs political attention, because once you let go of that political attention, you run the risk of going the wrong way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u162	Apart from the gender mark, I think I can reassure Mrs Barth in that sense that we will continue to look at the tax burden in terms of the carrying capacity at the moment. I shall neutralize the equally personal level. This also stimulates the choice of work. The whole purpose of the cabinet's fiscal package is also to make work more rewarding, in which income support and specific costs, such as care for children, take into account the capacity of the household. I believe that this division between income support at household level and taxation at individual level is also exactly what the Van Dijkhuizen Committee recommended at the time. That means that if there are two people working, they will indeed benefit more from the tax rebates. That leads to work paying off. We can't just let that go. I also said at the beginning of my reply: those are the fiscal and social arrangements we decided on a few years ago. But that does not alter the fact that there is a political, social desire to look in particular at what that ultimately means for the position of a earner. I think it is a good thing that, as a cabinet, we have managed to continue these underlying tax arrangements on the one hand and at the same time to ensure, in this religious-liberal coalition, that the single-earners ultimately fully benefit from all the measures in the coalition agreement. In fact, the increase in purchasing power among that group is the greatest, insofar as it is an earner at a modal level. Questions have also been asked about the elderly, of course. The purchasing power effects were also taken into account. Of course, lower tax rates are also important for this income group. They are also entitled to the higher general tax rebate. In addition, the cabinet increases the elderly discount, and the hard income line falls. This will be replaced by a phasing-out path: 15% from the income line of €37.000. A retired person who, for example, gets a small compensation for manning a polling station does not suddenly lose €1,200 in the elderly discount. Other measures, such as raising the care allowance for couples and abolishing the hard income limit in the rent payment, are also beneficial for AOWs without or with a small supplementary pension. This does not alter the fact that pensioners with a slightly higher supplementary pension are indeed affected by the incomplete indexing of pensions, which we have discussed at length in this debate before. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tamara van Ark, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, responded this morning to the Ombudsman's paper on the position of children and child poverty. She is right to say that child poverty is poignant. In March of this year, the Economic and Social Council, which was part of the Van Apeldoorn motion, adopted by this Chamber, delivered an opinion on the subject of child poverty. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs already intended to respond to this as soon as possible in 2018, in the first quarter, towards the Upper House and the Lower House. It will now also involve the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u163	The Prime Minister refers to today's report by the children's ombudsman on child poverty. It is nice that the Secretary of State will come back to that, but I think the urgency of the matter deserves a little more attention from the Prime Minister. So far, I think all successive governments, all municipal councils and all municipal councils have been working to reduce child poverty. In my opinion, we agree that child poverty does not fit in with a civilised country. That has nothing to do with income differences anymore, but with unacceptableness. Now the children's ombudsman notes in today's report that despite all these efforts, child poverty is not falling. So the pluses mentioned in the coalition agreement do not work here. I think it is necessary to note that this commitment, which we have all undertaken, needs a different component, namely a performance obligation. We need to agree on how we are going to gradually reduce the poverty among children; those 378,000 children who, according to the children's ombudsman, live and grow up in poverty today and therefore face an extremely unpleasant future. Is the Prime Minister, is his government prepared, in addition to the efforts we are making and those commitments we have, to undertake a performance obligation and to say 'this year, so many children are forced out of poverty and so we are gradually building up the shame of our society'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u164	I believe that Mr Kox and I agree on the importance of this matter. I think this is being felt Chamber-wide as well. I am reluctant to have a result obligation because it is not suddenly settled. However, we can ask Mrs Van Ark to respond to this suggestion in the cabinet response to the Ombudsman's report. By the way, "Ombudsman" is a Swedish word for that function, it is not necessarily a man. We are talking about a female Ombudsman, as you should say. The Children's Ombudsman is a woman. So we can ask the Secretary of State. I think there are three elements in the policy to combat child poverty. The first is, of course, money. This cabinet, too, is putting a lot of extra money into fighting poverty among families with children in particular. I will not mention the amounts, but they are really substantial amounts. This has also happened in recent years. Secondly, you have to make sure people get to work. This is still the best way to improve the social situation of families: from a benefit and getting started. Thirdly, in the coalition negotiations, we discussed debt management for a long time. In particular, the government-wide debt approach is relevant. Those are three building blocks of policy. Again, the Secretary of State will consider it further and involve your suggestion. Let me just say that I'm not getting very excited about results. Then we think, "Well, we solved it," but that didn't solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u165	I can imagine that you are not enthusiastic about this, but the efforts we have made so far, together with all of us, have led to the sad observation by the Children's Ombudsman that poverty among children has not fallen, that today, 5 December, the day of Sinterklaas, 378 000 children are growing up in poverty. This means not only growing up in poverty now, but also in the first place I have said this: worse educational outcomes, worse paid jobs, worse prospects and more unhappy in the world in the future. These are all matters that are said on the first two pages of the coalition agreement that we must do everything we can to prevent them, so that everyone can come along. I will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u166	We agree, it is poignant. By the way, it is not just a financial issue. This financial issue also has implications for a sense of security. It leads to stressful situations in families, so that children, regardless of the financial problems, also have to deal with a less good sense of home, to say the least. Not always happy, but in many cases poverty goes hand in hand with stressful situations, which also has a negative impact on young people for that reason. We very much agree that we should try to reduce this. Then there is Mr Brinkman's question about the pension system. We want to take the step of a renewed and future-proof pension system with the social partners in the cabinet. It is also necessary to address the vulnerabilities of the current system. There is a new way of building up pensions, where there is a clear relationship between the contributions paid in and the pension build-up. I can confirm that the average systematic is abolished; that is our idea. Social partners are developing a new pension contract for the benefit of the new system, based on personal pension assets with sufficient collective risk sharing. There is also a collective benefit phase. It is very ambitious, because it is, of course, about huge sums of money and huge social interests. The aim is to complete the legislative process by 2020, so that you can then proceed to implementation. This is the reform. The question of whether there is scope for reindexation from 2018 onwards is separate from the reform of the system and depends on several factors, including the financial situation of a pension fund. In response specifically to Mr Brinkman's question: yes, we take this very ambitiously, but we do realize our limited role in this. We are mainly facilitating employers and employees, who are primarily the owners of the second pillar. That brings me to the question of how to do that with a ruler who comes from a party that is not always enthusiastic about the polder. It's not as black and white for D66 as it is for the VVD. I think it is true that the liberal parties are always a little concerned or that there is not too much decision in the polder without normal democratic control. That's how I've always heard Alexander Pechtold and people from my own party. In any case, for the VVD and in my view D66 too, we are not against the polder, but we are strongly in favour of good consultation, provided that it can then be removed under democratic control. My impression, working with Wouter Koolmies in the last six weeks, is that he is also in that game. That means that the metaphor about the total abstainer is funny, but not true. I think, more generally, that a discussion on for or against the polder makes no sense. This country is a land that is half underwater, so we need to polder, to a greater or lesser extent. Then there's the increase in the AOW age. Questions have been asked about this. The policy is well known. This cabinet wants to look at obstacles experienced to make arrangements possible to allow people to retire as healthy as possible with the increased retirement age. This is also one of the reasons why we have decided to extend the IOW for four years for older workers who, despite the efforts of the social partners, become unemployed or disabled. This means a minimum level of income without a capital or partner income test. This is therefore a concrete measure in addition to the fact that we are working with the social partners on the labour market. This is, of course, primarily a task for the social partners, because they must ensure that people also reach the retirement age in a healthy way. Or as we used to say in my company: fit in the FAT; it still existed back then. The WRR advocates a fundamental discussion on new social security. Mrs. Strik asked for that. It referred to a specific piece of the WRR: For the sake of certainty. That's a report from the Recon series. That is indeed a stimulating anthology, may I say, and also a fine contribution to a more fundamental discussion about the future of the labour market. We recognize many of the trends in the report. The labour market is changing rapidly and the demands on workers are constantly changing. We are aware of this and therefore the government agreement has a number of proposals in store to make our labour market situation more future-proof. Mrs Strik and I spoke briefly about it by way of interruption earlier in the debate. I am also thinking of these in connection with the analysis of the authors of this report. That debate will take place even more fundamentally. The WRR exploration itself outlines two pathways for adaptation to the challenge of tomorrow: incremental gradual change through legislative and regulatory adjustment or a more radical revision, with the social security system turning upside down in one go. As a cabinet, we believe that such a radical review will also lead to greater uncertainty, and that is why we do not choose it, but we have a very balanced package of measures in the government agreement that makes the labour market fairer and more competitive step by step. Mr President, that brings me to the subject of health and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u167	May I ask you a question, Prime Minister? I was gonna suspend at 1:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u168	Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u169	Then you're done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u170	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u171	Well, that's totally great. If Mrs. Strik has a short question. Keep it short, Mrs. Strike.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u172	I'll spend the next hour well. I'd like to say something before you move on to the next cup. Above all, we noticed that you are probably going to make more flex and that you are going to create more equality in this respect. I do not think this is the right direction, but the cabinet is going to look into this further. This is what I want to talk about. You are talking about a balanced package aimed at making everyone active in the labour market. What strikes us is that, in the first period, I referred to this as well, and that is precisely the people who are already struggling to come with it, who are getting into their income. The sickness benefit is reduced. The Wajong benefit will be reduced. The WIA benefit is being tightened up. People with disabilities end up below the minimum wage, because pay dispensation is given and the minimum wage no longer applies. The Prime Minister states that these are participatory measures. Because we are concerned about how this affects their income position and whether this is actually going to produce something for their participation in a positive or negative sense, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared, say in two years' time, to produce some sort of impact assessment for these groups. Then we can see what has happened to their income position and their employment rate. I see that the Prime Minister is already being given expert advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u173	I was just whispering to Mr Koolmees. We're just saying that in two years' time it's too soon for that. Let us agree that we are chewing on that thought, but that we are not going back to that in this debate. We must first see what that adds to the policy we already intend to make. As Mr Koolmees now says, some of these major reforms will take place in 2019 and especially in 2020. In two years, you won't have any effects. So I think it would be good to take a look at this first. In the legislative proposals that are coming, as far as new laws are concerned, the Wajong reduction has already been decided, but a number of other things are still to come, and we will have your words taken into account when drawing up the explanatory statement. In any case, most of those laws also contain evaluation provisions. We'll somehow involve it, but I don't feel like some kind of mega-evaluation on date X. I don't think that adds much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u174	Mrs Strik, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u175	I would like to prevent it from being fragmented again in individual measures. It concerns a particular group, the most vulnerable people in the labour market. I would, however, like to see at least three years from now, when it has already entered into force, monitored and reported on how that will work out for their income and participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u176	I understand your request. You notice some reluctance when it comes to mega-evaluations, especially when the deadlines for introduction are so different. We'll take a look at this at lunchtime and see if we can react to it in terms of content and otherwise we'll do it later. Will what do that? The social affairs executive and I will chew on your suggestion. If it doesn't work today, we'll come back to that later. We will always keep the underlying thought in mind. I know this is not enough for you, Mrs Strik, but at least we will take that part with us. When drafting draft laws, we will take into account evaluation provisions and so on. But you want more, and we're gonna see if that fits in with our approach. Then I come to the subject of education and care. The question is of course: is that money there for the nursing homes too? Yes, that's reserved, I can say Mrs Faber. It has also been said: nice that it goes to the nursing homes, but what about the other care? The other care also receives a lot of extra money. There is a lot of extra growth space in the coming years, also for care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u177	The Prime Minister's moving fast. He says, "Yes, it's reserved." I understand that it was booked because it takes into account a windfall of 1.9 billion when the healthcare agreements are concluded again. I see the Prime Minister shaking his head now. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u178	Income and expenditure are separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u179	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u180	We have the revenue side and this is an expense. This edition is booked. It's 2.1 billion. If we have less revenue on the revenue side than we thought, we have another problem, but then it is not the case that those posts are crossed out against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u181	No, but how did you reserve it? You have to get that money from somewhere. So I understand that this money would come from a cut in the cost of concluding the health care agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u182	No. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u183	So that's not true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u184	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u185	So you're saying there's just 2.1 billion going to the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u186	I can see your surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u187	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u188	I see your surprise...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u189	Well, I love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u190	... that many parties' promises in the campaign will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u191	May I have a word with the chairman, Mrs Faber? 'Cause otherwise we're really gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u192	Well, I started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u193	Well, okay, I don't care, Prime Minister, but the answer is clear. Mrs Faber may make a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u194	She can't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u195	Well, I've never been so nuanced, you know that. In any case, we will keep an eye on whether the 2.1 billion actually goes to the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u196	That's what we're gonna do. Then we have agreed on one point. It has been asked: does there go to other care money? The answer to that is: sure. The growth area is considerable, so I can answer Mrs Strik's question on that point in the affirmative. The CDA asked, at least that is how I understood the question: wait a minute, it's all interesting and we're not against it, but where is that decision actually taking place? How do you ensure that decisions are not taken outside politics on substantial increases in costs? I think that we agree that it is important that politics should always be able to make its own assessment of the financial implications before a quality framework is written and converted into money and therefore generally applied. The previous cabinet has commissioned the technical development of this administration. In other words, how can the government be given the legal authority to check whether the exceptional effects of quality standards in care are acceptable? It is a question of feasibility, but it is also a question of budgetary impact. At the moment, there is no such authority. That is what we are going to do, because, of course, we believe that this political decision-making should also take place in the political domain. This means that we are currently working on it for the future. In other sectors, however, this works differently. There it is not so much that delegated regulations can raise budgets beyond the legislative scope. As a general rule, the political powers with regard to the setting of quality standards. Look at the daycare. That is where politics defines the frameworks for quality and personnel standards. Think about the parent-child ratio. There is another system involved. So we are looking at the question of how we can make political considerations in the future. The CDA has said that there are some large health insurance companies that say that care costs can go down by 10% or 20%. Those are very large percentages. You can hear them here and there. Mr Bruins took note of this with great interest, as he was working hard to make major agreements in medical and specialist care, mental health care, general practitioners, multidisciplinary care and community care. Agreements are being made on the space available and on how we can curb this huge increase in growth. The challenge is, of course, that health insurers and providers manage growth as much as possible while maintaining quality and accessibility. This also has effects on the premium and its own risk. The Central Planning Office has said that lower healthcare expenditure can also lead to reduced care or health care of poor quality. That is also why, in line with the previous cabinet, we want to continue to make smart appointments, for example with hospitals. Better quality leads to fewer complications and lower costs. In that respect, it is therefore a double-edged sword. But we also want to make a firmer commitment to care in the right place, for example. Preventing unnecessary care offers opportunities for this. That brings me to a question from Mrs Barth about primary care. That concern is, of course, essential for that. The first line has an important role to play in realising care close to home. This can also make it possible for people to stay home longer. Strengthening the first line is also an important theme in the coalition agreement. Take the subject of substitution of care from hospitals to primary care providers. The administrative agreement 2018 concluded with the GPs, which is now being implemented, also focuses on cooperation between primary care providers, such as more cooperation between GPs and nurses and more cooperation with hospitals and municipalities. The starting point is that good care for everyone is delivered in the right place and at the right time. Besides good quality and more control over one's own life, it sometimes has positive budgetary effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u197	That's a nice answer from the Prime Minister, but it's not quite what I asked for. You can conclude an agreement with general practitioners to work well with the municipalities and with other primary care providers, but that does not create that direction. Therefore, you need commitment from municipalities, from the outpatient teams of mental health care and disability care and care for the elderly. They are now in three different funding streams. They are in different regulations and have different cultures of works. These are all aspects that are bothering the cooperation of these three different blocks of parties at the moment. You also have to deal with the market forces that hinder good cooperation in some areas. In short, if the government doesn't take control of this and doesn't bring the parties together, if there isn't one coordinating executive on VWS who's going to direct this and continue to pay daily attention to it, then that cooperation between them doesn't come about in practice. In this way, we miss a lot of opportunities to make care more economical and sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u198	Maybe a few reactions. I was just whispering with my colleagues from VWS, with both ministers. First of all, of course, we are working on a broad agreement. I agree with Mrs Barth; first of all. The fact that there are different funding flows can never be the reason why there is no cooperation. Two. I do not think we should underestimate the role of the municipalities. It is precisely by concluding the agreements we are currently working on that there is an express directional role for the government. The two ministers have defined their areas very precisely, but, of course, where necessary, they work together. They're in offices next to each other, so it certainly won't be that. What Mrs Barth says, we take very much to heart. It's also part of our thinking, because eventually you want to work unboiled. The financial flows should not be a reason not to cooperate. I see Mrs Barth looking as if she is wondering: is this a brilliant answer or do I still want to ask a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u199	This is just too vague for me. I indicated yesterday that the fact that there are now three regiments on VWS and not two more, the risk of fragmented work from the Ministry is greater rather than smaller. We have seen in the coalition agreement that there was no focus on coordination and direction, whereas it is really necessary from the national government's side. Otherwise, you won't be able to get those parties together. After the reforms initiated by the previous cabinet to strengthen the local character of care, we believe that the logical next step is to bring these parties together. It is good that the Prime Minister says that he is going to conclude agreements with different sectors, but I believe that the main objective of these agreements is to control growth. That's right. That must be done, because that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u200	Shortly, Mrs. Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u201	But then we don't have the essence yet. This is: how do you get these different cultures, these different funding flows, which combine different cohorts of regulation in practice so that problems are not sold out anymore but solved in conjunction. What I would like to hear from the Prime Minister is that there will be coordination on the part of VWS, that it will be clear, that it will be sent to it and that it will continue to be given daily attention in the coming years. There is not even a Directorate-General for the first line. The Ministry is also fragmented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u202	Would you like to finish the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u203	So that coordination really isn't just anything. That is a job that needs a lot of attention and some clearer answers than I have received from the Prime Minister so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u204	Wir ziehen an einem Strang, the Germans say. We're just agreeing. The fact that there is a separation between cure and care is neither new nor that there is a secretary of state on VWS. That's not where the problem is. These three men have been hired to work well together and to ensure good cooperation in health care. And then the chords. You can make agreements about controlling costs, but you can only do so if you also make agreements about all kinds of other forms of cooperation. In short, what Mrs Barth is saying here is really what we want. There needs to be unlocked, across the sectors, and smartly searched for connections. It must never be the case that different rulers work differently on this. You won't. I mean, there's a lot of intensive cooperation going on. You can't solve that with a Directorate. Then it just gets more complicated. Then the question of dignified ageing, if I may sum it up like that. As the coalition agreement shows, dignified ageing is a widely supported social objective that requires attention and action in various areas of government policy. The cabinet has embraced the Manifest Ageing and wants to contribute to the realization of the plans of the manifesto, such as a nationwide programme of loneliness and the improvement of palliative care. A large amount of money is also made available for this period, up to 180 million for this period. In the following years, another 30 million a year will follow. A separate letter will be sent to the Chamber informing it of the details of the programme. There was also reference to a reaction of the NVVE and the Life End Clinic on an initiative of the Cooperative Last Will. The cooperative announced at the end of September this year that it had found a way to end people's lives. They didn't spread the name of that drug. They have revealed some properties, such as that it would be a legal preservative. People who have been members for six months would be told their name. The Cabinet has reported this action of the Cooperative Last Will to find irresponsible and undesirable in the light of the policy to reduce the number of suicides. Of course, it is not up to me, and not even the Minister of Justice and Security, to determine whether this undesirable behaviour in our view moves within the limits of the law. At least we think it is socially undesirable. Whether or not it is legally undesirable is not up to us. The existence of a criminal offence also depends on the specific circumstances of the case. It is up to the Public Prosecutor to decide, on the basis of the facts and circumstances, whether, in a specific case, there is reason to initiate an investigation and then take a decision there. But politically it is clear that we are not of any use here. Then a question was asked about the termination of pregnancy. May I point out that, as we know, it is only permitted in the event of an emergency. The legislator has deliberately chosen to leave the emergency situation of women open and not to include them in compulsory registration. It is therefore not clear what the cause is in the case of repeated terminations of pregnancy. The previous Minister of VWS has promised that the Law on Abruption pregnancy will be reviewed. It will be considered whether this question could possibly be taken into account in this evaluation or whether it makes sense to consider separately the issue of repeated pregnancy termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u205	Just when you want to put it in that particular evaluation, you might get the tension I wanted to avoid with my question, namely that it is interwoven with the emergencies an sich. If we were to examine separately how that happened and where it went wrong, so that there are two, three, four or five pregnancy breaks, you would take it out of the atmosphere of whether or not there is room for abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u206	No, we're looking at two variants. One is the evaluation. I hear you wouldn't prefer that. The other one's a separate investigation. What is desirable there, we are still precisely mapping out. Then the discounts in education. It is true that there is still a remaining target, but at the same time there is also a huge increase of 1.6 billion. In the case of primary education, for example, a further 720 million will be added for salaries and a reduction in the workload. Indeed, there is a piece of the target of about 60 million. But we are talking about very intensive intensifications. Then there's the equality of opportunity. Mrs Strik's question is high on the Cabinet's agenda and also on our contacts with municipalities and civil society organisations. The Action Plan on Equal Opportunities of October 2016 provides additional funding for, inter alia, improving the link between the different education sectors. A report with the first proceeds of the action plan was also published in July of this year. More time is needed to properly assess the effectiveness of the measures. The results will follow in 2019. This cabinet has put a number of accents in it. We are allocating 170 million for the strengthening of early and pre-school education. The budget for educational deficits is being increased and, of course, we intend to reduce tuition fees in the first year in order to reduce the threshold for studying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u207	I hope I'm not too early. Is the Minister ready with the financial side of the investment in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u208	Yeah, unless you want to ask me about low-literacy. But if it isn't, I'm done with the financial side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u209	I would like to refer to the general reduction in the efficiency of education of 184 million in structural terms, I believe. I questioned that in my first term. I asked the Prime Minister whether he himself would find it a bit strange if on the one hand you were making that investment that is necessary, not only for salaries and workload but also for other innovations in education, and on the other hand you said: "A propos, we still have a gap in the budget, that goes from there and we call it an efficiency reduction. That raises a question for me. You don't do that to the police, for example. We're gonna strengthen the police even more, but, at least, we're gonna take off another 100 million for efficiency reasons. In other words, isn't this actually a flaw in the government's agreement and in the government's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u210	No, because all these targets have been fulfilled by the police and the education that has always been put out for itself. That's the reality, so this still stands. I believe that it is not surprising that, where all kinds of other sectors have bled heavily in the previous period, education is also doing a bit, especially if there is a huge structural investment against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u211	I hear the Prime Minister saying that education didn't do it. He means the Minister of Education in the previous cabinet under his direction didn't? Is that how I'm supposed to take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u212	That is a perfectly correct wording of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u213	I'm just saying, because it's not a reproach to the education sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u214	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u215	But you believe that there are still 200 million in efficiency measures, savings, to be found, and I would have liked to have explained this a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u216	Once again, in the previous period, we had to make considerable cuts in the Netherlands. Eventually there can be a lot of extra money to education now, but there really is one left. The same applies to reductions in charges and increases in charges. We can reduce burdens on many things, but there are also a number of burdens. We accept that, too. That is how it is in the financial record of the coalition agreement. I think it's really defendable, even if you look at the whole of education over the last seven years. Then there was a question about the equality of opportunity in education. Excuse me, I just answered that. I was at the low-literacy. Mrs Barth made the suggestion: just say that every child must learn to read and write. That's what I'm saying. This is one of the key objectives of primary education, but it does not solve the problem of low literacy. This is broader than just reading and writing. It is also about digital skills, it is about delays where people have not learned it in the past. But when she asks me, do the general statement that all children should learn to read and write? Here's the thing. It's in the core targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u217	I was talking about a mission. Of course it is nice to say those words, but then you also have to do something about it to make sure that this becomes a reality. Unfortunately, it is still possible in the Netherlands that you get a diploma in school without being able to read and write properly. In this way we maintain the low literacy in the Netherlands. To do that, both preventively and in curative terms, I think you really need more than EUR 5 million. That was more my point yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u218	This comes on top of other initiatives that already exist from the Read & Writing Foundation and all kinds of other initiatives. But I very much agree with Mrs Barth on social participation. When I was in Education, we knew that a quarter of a million people really couldn't read and write and that one and a half million people had a hard time with that. I think those numbers have decreased by now. Or are they just as bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u219	They even went up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u220	Well, you can check it out. On that point, but I do not have a complete policy plan of low literacy here on the occasion of the General Reviews. There is no doubt that there is, and that seems to me to be something for the leaders of Education to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u221	Finally, Mrs Barth, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u222	Would the Prime Minister then share with his colleagues in Education whether they would like to write us a letter on this and explain in more detail how they would like to give this shared ambition more hands and feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u223	I'm not much for all those letters, because that costs an awful lot of administrative capacity and probably it's already there. Let us look at the pause to see if there is any policy plan that I do not have ready and whether I can say something about it in the second term. Then there was the question about starting schools. What do we mean by parents' interest? This means a real interest of parents in a specific school initiative. This can still be a school of a particular direction, but also a school with a particular educational concept. There is a difference from the current system in which interest is not demonstrated but assumed on the basis of recognised direction. Then there was a question from D66 about the 400 million structural intensifications: do they also lead to one common approach from OCW and Economic Affairs and Climate to prevent tribal struggles? I can say from experience that they are indeed going to work together, i.e. the Ministers for Education and Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, to find a link between science and innovation, including at the intersection of basic research, applied research and practical research. They also involve the other departments of the trade. I recognize that in the past things have not been brilliant in the cooperation between OCW and EZK, but at the moment Mr Wiebes is so reassured that he doesn't even hear what I'm saying. I can say that he and Mrs Van Engelshoven are going to work very well together here. Right? Good. That is what we have to do, or else we will take care of it. It's really crucial, because if you get the tribal battle back, that's an incredible loss of energy. I fully recognise what Mr De Graaf said about previous periods, fortunately not from the recent but from the somewhat further past. Then Mrs Barth's question on a response to the WRR report Weten is not yet done. This reaction comes, also heard Mrs Barth's comment on this, at least for the discussion of the Dijkstra initiative proposal on an active donor registration system. I fully understand that this can be very relevant for the Labour Party, and perhaps for other parties as well. So we will ensure that this response is there before the own-initiative legislative proposal ADR is dealt with. Then I come to the subject of foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u224	Mrs. Barth, briefly. As soon as you hear your name, you'll be at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u225	This will also save us in the second term. I hope that the Prime Minister will send that cabinet response in such a timely manner that we can include it in the debate in our group. If it's here on January 30th, it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u226	I'm just gonna take a look at the administration and there's a nod. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. I understand that, too, because if you don't, there's no point in it. Then it's here and you haven't read it yet. I understand very well. We are going to look very carefully at the timing of the initiative legislative proposal on active donor registration in the Chamber, and we are going to ensure that the response to the WRR report is timely. Then foreign policy, Mr. President. I could, of course, refer briefly to the letter of inquiry on the State of the European Union sent by Minister Zijlstra to both chambers on behalf of the cabinet. Maybe I can highlight a few things and then answer a few questions? When it comes to Europe, it is important for this cabinet that we seek cooperation for three reasons. First of all, because in an unstable world, cooperation in strong international structures such as NATO, but certainly also in the European Union, offers security. There is something going on in the world and certainly in a ring of instability around Europe. This is the last moment to say: we are pulling the wagon out of the circle, we are doing it ourselves. We are the fifth economy of the euro area and the sixth of Europe of 28, but of course we are not a large country in itself. That would be incredibly stupid. The second reason is, of course, that this cooperation brings us a great deal of economic advantage. But there is a third reason, namely that we are also a community of values as a European Union. That's why we work together. Of course, there are also major issues in the European Union. How do we get more focus? When it comes to the euro, there are, of course, specific issues. How do you ensure that countries actually take the necessary steps to reform their economies, because there is a promise under the euro? That promise is that we are converging to a higher level of prosperity. This can only be done if all countries also reform and put their public finances in order, etc. Then the question is: how do you stimulate that? There are many ideas for this, for example in the French corner, some of which are good and others are less enthusiastic about. A number of ideas have also been put forward by the Netherlands in the field of building the European monetary system, the EMS, towards a system in which the EMF, as it would then be called, will actually run the programmes. It remains intergovernmental, I say in the direction of some in the European Commission who say: make it Community immediately. I'd be against that, and the Cabinet would be against that. The second is a system to also ensure that sovereign debts are restructured before you have access to such systems. I find a third proposal interesting; we have made that proposal ourselves, but I am very enthusiastic about it. There is a lot of money involved in structural and cohesion funds. Can we not link this much more to the answer to the question of what countries are doing to reform their economies themselves and, for example, to follow up country-specific recommendations, the Country Specific Recommendations? Couldn't you make that much more conditional? The nice thing is that in fact you are also in the direction of what others have suggested: separate budget lines for the euro area. Then you could say with a little Buddenbrooks 1848: "We want a republic; you already have one; then we want another." Because then it turns out that we are focusing the existing funds much more on real reforms. Then you might be able to debate much more within the existing budgetary frameworks on how to stimulate reform and prevent macroeconomic imbalances and shocks. In any case, they have not taken place in recent economic history. If things were bad in a country, on average things would also be bad in Europe. It is rare in history that a particular country suddenly goes through an enormous shock on its own. So these are a number of proposals that the Netherlands has made. They will lie alongside proposals from other countries. There will be a very intensive debate on Europe over the next two years, on the basis of the agenda of the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. It actually continues until the start of the European elections in 2019. We are looking at what we can build in Europe in a number of areas, which is much more relevant to the inhabitants and what delivers on these essential things. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps one last comment on the market. I am sometimes asked what I think of the internal market. Then my reaction is: that would be a good idea. The internal market is currently limited to physical goods and does not function or moderately in the areas of capital, digital or energy. We know that if we did do all this, this would add the Dutch economy twice to the European common income. Twice the Dutch economy, 4 million jobs. But there are great national interests, especially of a number of large Member States, which oppose this. Along these lines, the cabinet intends to continue to work towards strengthening the European Union in the near future. If you still think there should be a nexit, I think you should take a look at the North Sea to England. Then you must be very willing to sacrifice your own party. Those who do, therefore, take great electoral risks, regardless of major political risks. A question has then been asked about the ECHR. The cabinet is strongly in favour of joining the ECHR and is also committed to doing so in Brussels. The state of affairs is that we are waiting for a Commission proposal on how to deal with the binding opinion of the European Court of Justice that the draft Accession Treaty is in breach of the EU Treaties. That's what's happening now. We are always calling on the Commission to present the proposal at an early stage. We will continue to inform Parliament on a regular basis. It was also a commitment to Mr Kox in the General Affairs Council's report in September to keep Parliament regularly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u227	I understand the Prime Minister's comment on Britain. He's been taken from my heart, too. In my contribution, I also mentioned the position of the Netherlands within the European Union, especially in relation to economic, monetary and political reforms in relation to an expected German-French axis. In my firm conviction, the Netherlands must find a link with this. I am very curious about the Prime Minister's view, which was still lacking in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u228	The Netherlands has pursued foreign policy for 400 years by seeking a balance between the British, the Germans and the French. We will continue to do so, but the British will probably not be members of the European Union anymore. There is, of course, a functioning Franco-German axis, but it has been a bit hasty, because France has been economically lagging behind. Honestly, it's still trying to pull up the leg. Major labour market reforms were carried out in France at the end of August. While we were forming, they elected a president and reformed the entire labour market. Suddenly it happened very quickly, but it is also the first major reform in years. We encourage the French President to continue on this path. This is also very necessary, because the differences in all economic figures between France and Germany have also become very large. But that axis works on its own and that is not wrong at all. For the Netherlands, we have an intensive relationship with Berlin, but also with Paris. I went to Ghana last week with the French President for a reason. There too, of course, I took the opportunity to discuss all kinds of issues in cooperation. I'll be back in Paris next week. We are also looking at how, in conjunction with the three Member States in the Benelux, we can build a strong relationship with the three Baltic countries and the three Scandinavian Member States. We had that three-plus-three-plus-three concept in The Hague in June. This is also an opportunity to create extra mass in Europe, where it can act from common positions. In addition, the Benelux is currently reaching out to the V4, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We do not always agree with those countries, certainly not with Hungary and Poland, but it is important to be intensively involved with them as well. This led, for example, to the fact that in the previous period Lodewijk Asscher could make a very nice compromise on the Detachings Directive, the Posting of Workers Directive. In that respect, I say yes to the question of whether we are also among the Franco-German axis. We are particularly concerned about bilaterally with Paris and bilaterally with Berlin. In addition, we also have our own clubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u229	I think that the Prime Minister is quite right that we should have good contacts with a great many states in the Union, preferably with all of them, and that different forms of cooperation and networks are possible on various dossiers. However, I am particularly concerned about the more strategic choice. You can, of course, be a counterweight to a Franco-German axis by setting up collections and, for example, by joining the northern states, but then it gets something of a counterweight. You can also strategically choose to invest in the connection with the German-French axis, which would not be illogical given the position of the Netherlands within the Union but also in history. That's why I'm kind of looking for the cabinet's strategic choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u230	I think we are saying the same thing, but this means bilaterally with France and bilaterally with Germany, knowing that the two are also together. We are four times smaller than the French economy and five times smaller than the German economy. At the same time, we are the largest after the four larger economies. Then there's another big hole and then the next one comes. So we are in the top five or top six on our own, if you take the non-euro countries. I do think that these other collaborations are also relevant, because they also create more mass for the Netherlands, also in our influence towards France and Germany. This also applies to other countries. They do not do it to give us more influence, they do it to have more influence within the European game. So we're really looking. There's one thing I can say. Mr De Graaf also hinted at this implication of the UK's departure. That voice in the area of free trade and free trade agreements, as well as in the area of the internal market, is really missing; already. Theresa May is still at the table, but is mostly preoccupied with one subject, and that is not this subject. So we're already aware of that. Then there is also more looking at us as next in the list and they ask: what do you really think? That's nice, because it strengthens our position, but it's also mandatory. It forces us, because we are also so much smaller than the large Member States, to seek those alliances with other countries. So I think it is and-and, but I agree with Mr De Graaf that this axis is relevant. We need to influence that. Several questions have been asked about the Council of Europe and its importance, by GroenLinks and the SP. We regard the Council of Europe as a guardian of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The Netherlands also addresses countries on the basis of their own commitments. We are doing this, for example, by ensuring that the Council of Europe concentrates its efforts and resources on the main issues of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. The Netherlands is active in the reform of the European Court of Human Rights. They aim to ensure the effectiveness of the court and, in fact, the whole system of the ECHR itself. It is also a question of the responsibility of Member States to prevent violations and to enforce judgments of the Court. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions about the euro area by explaining our policy. I never find it so interesting to respond to all the proposals made by others. I always find it more exciting to say what we want with the eurozone. The fact that others have ideas is beautiful, but I find it more exciting what we find.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u231	The Prime Minister reaffirmed his commitment to the Council of Europe and the unique European human rights system. Thank you for that. But honestly, we already know that. In Strasbourg, we talk to our ambassador on a quarterly basis about the commitment of the Dutch Government. Both GroenLinks and we have specifically asked whether the government would like to take a positive look at the possibilities of improving the financing of the other two major treaty organisations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. At the moment, even for me, as a Dutchman and as a socialist, it is double economical, sometimes appalling to see how dimes and quarters should be dealt with in Strasbourg, while on the other side of the water the euros flow richly. I think there could be a slight shift in budget space. That is all the more necessary because, if we do not have the Council of Europe, we will lose the platform in which we can talk to both the Russians, the Turks and the Ukrainians. In the history of the Hague Congress, the roots of this unique system lie. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he does not need to do so now to see whether the Netherlands can give a better example on this point than it already does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u232	While we are already having a very complicated discussion in Europe about the budget for the coming years with the British leaving, I do not think it is possible to reduce the overall budget and shift it to other organisations. I do, of course, see the importance of the OSCE and the Council of Europe. We are also contributing in proportion to this. Only, you must not put the Council of Europe and the OSCE at the same level as the European Union. That is a very different organisation with a very different size and a very different direct interest for the Netherlands. They are not only very different abbreviations, but there are also very different organisations behind them. What Mr Kox is doing here is saying: you have the European Union, a sort of hollow circle, and then you have that poor OSCE and Council of Europe that have almost nothing to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u233	What lies behind that, Prime Minister, is that we are all offering 835 million Europeans protection under one unique human rights system, complete with a court of binding rulings. That is an achievement that has not been repeated in post-war history. The European Union has everything to do with the Council of Europe's human rights system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u234	Yeah, yeah, you're talking about funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u235	But I am not asking whether we can remove a very large amount of money from the European Union. I note that the European Union produces daily what the Council of Europe produces each year. I am not saying that we should do it fifty-fifty, but so far the Council of Europe has also been financed by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Netherlands. In fact, foreign affairs has no money, but basically it is about legal certainty and legal protection. If the Netherlands were to look creatively, it might find some space, and it could particularly appeal to fellow countries. To repeat what I know a long time ago isn't that productive. As far as that extended hand is concerned, Prime Minister: this has been a Chamber-wide wish in the past, so would you like to take another look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u236	Then let's disconnect it in spirit or compromise. I keep hearing Mr Kox compare it with the European Union and then I'm going to fail. Then I'm thinking, now you're really comparing apples and pears. But if Mr Kox asks us to look again at the financing of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, whether there is enough money there, I want to do so. Then let's take another look at that, without me making any promises now. Maybe that's why I had the misunderstanding. Mr Kox said literally: a kilo less for the EU and can this be done to these organisations? Then I blocked because we are already having such a complicated discussion over the coming years on the financing of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u237	I very much welcome the Prime Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u238	Just that I'm looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u239	In fact, I welcome that commitment. Can we be informed about it in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u240	No, then promises don't work. If you are asked right now to decide tomorrow where the money is going...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u241	I mean that short term a little bit wider and more relative. Can we at least be informed about this in the course of the beginning of next year or so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u242	Then I'll take it with me in the usual reports. There are regular reports to the Chambers on Europe and on all kinds of issues. Then we include it in that, but not separate letters because I really have to be careful that we can all handle the smaller and smaller departments. Then there is the question of the democratic rule of law, in fact, as a result of the situation in Spain. Spain is a democratic rule of law and a European partner. The Spanish court ruled that the former Catalan authorities acted in breach of the law. That's the fact. Nor is it for the Dutch Government to determine what is written in Spanish law. The Spanish Constitution states that areas cannot be unilaterally separated unless the entire Spanish population agrees by referendum. That is a rule, a law that applies in Spain, which is a democracy, and we have to comply with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u243	Mr. Ten Hoeve, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u244	That answer was, of course, entirely to be expected from the Prime Minister. There is a clear silence throughout Europe when it comes to this problem with the justification that Spain is a democracy. No one denies that Spain is a democracy either. I would like to point out that the problem of the right to self-determination transcends the system of normal democracy. When there is little attention or denial in a country, there is room to draw attention to it from the outside. This attention should come from the EU or from the Member States in this case because they are closest to it and are most co-responsible. I would point out that this problem does not only arise in Catalonia. It is a problem which must also be considered in the Western Balkans and which also plays a major role in relations with Russia. But we'll get back to that sometime soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u245	With respect, but I do not agree with that, because I really believe that Europe should be very reluctant to interfere with the internal affairs of countries. Spain is a rule of law. The judge has ruled. The Spanish Government is carrying out what the judge said. I think we really need to be on track in this. Then questions have been asked by the SGP, GroenLinks and D66 on asylum and migration. I would like to deal with these questions in conjunction, which may well be sensible in the light of time. This cabinet is committed to a further en- en-en policy. In addition, I say yes to D66, that we cannot do that without Europe. In doing so, I say yes to GroenLinks, where we have, of course, to respect the basic conditions, including when concluding migration deals, for example, that refugees are not returned to countries of origin where they fear persecution. I say yes to the SGP, that the Netherlands wants to protect people who have a well-founded fear of persecution, out of conviction. The question is whether this is always the right place. So that's why it's en-and-and-policy. We're gonna have to do some things. We discussed this last week at the summit in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. I refer to the fight against trafficking in human beings, effective return cooperation and, of course, the tackling of root causes. I was then in Ghana; the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation was there a few days earlier. Then you see that we are now going to take the step from development cooperation to much more of a trade relationship. I would also like to mention the improvement of reception in the region and the strengthening of borders in which Europe also has an important role. It means that we want to see in the near future whether it is possible to find where people are fleeing and to provide protection, as we have agreed with Turkey, namely in the region but, of course, under a number of important conditions, as I have just mentioned. In particular, the situation in Libya has been called for. I can assure you that Minister Zijlstra of Foreign Affairs and I myself raised this matter last week in Côte d'Ivoire with Prime Minister either chief or government, which I believe is the official title, Sarraj of Libya. An investigation has been initiated and a commitment has also been made to prosecute the slave traders with sufficient evidence. We are working together with other countries, such as France, to address the situation in the Security Council. We also welcome the joint declaration by the African Union and the European Union at the Côte d'Ivoire Summit. Evacuation of migrants to countries of origin is now under way. We are also contributing money to this. In addition, we are looking at possibilities for setting up UN sanctions against human traffickers and smugglers involved in serious human rights violations. But let us also be honest: this is extremely repulsive and it is not just arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u246	I'm trying to connect your first sentence to the last sentence. At first, you said that no one will be sent back to a country where there is a fear of persecution. It is commendable that all these measures against slavery are being taken, but that does not mean that slavery has disappeared tomorrow. At the same time, the Libyan Coast Guard is now being paid for and requested by the EU to do so, to remove migrants from the sea and to return them to such a dangerous situation. You can appeal to the Libyan authorities, but would it not be much better to immediately ensure that those people are taken elsewhere and not sent back to Libya?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u247	Of course, these people aren't from Libya. In most cases they are economic migrants and in some cases they are political refugees. The latter must of course never be returned to the country of origin according to the principle that you do not send people back to a country where they fear persecution, the principle of non-refoulement. As regards Libya itself, UNHCR and IOM are currently investing very heavily in smaller reception capacity, in camps for between 25 and 50 people, where the Netherlands is also contributing to ensuring that the situation improves there. It has also not been said that the images we have seen on CNN are Libyan government camps. This is denied by the Libyan Government at high and low levels. There's no indication of that either. However, there are abuses in Libya that we are tackling. So I think you should also look at this in conjunction, namely how to improve the situation of reception in Libya, including through IOM and UNHCR with money. How can you make people go back to the countries of origin? Because the vast majority of them are economic migrants, so they can just go back to their own country. I was with the president of Mali last week, in Bamako, who said, "Horrible footage on CNN." I said, "Yes, but why were they even in Libya, why aren't they in Mali? They're not being prosecuted here, are they?" "No, they're not being prosecuted here." So these people can go back to Mali and get out of that terrible situation in Libya. So I think you really need to approach that in a one-and-one approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u248	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u249	As far as our group is concerned, this must be done in the right time. And/and, indeed, improve the situation there, but as long as it is not fully guaranteed safe, people are not sent back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u250	I had asked another question to the Prime Minister about the 71 000 Libyans who are waiting for a permanent residence permit and who can go home to celebrate the Sugar Festival. We had the thesis: then you can also go home to build the land.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u251	You mean Syrians, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u252	Syrians, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u253	You said Libyans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u254	Oh, excuse me, excuse me, that's my fault. I mean Li... now I'm saying it again almost Syrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u255	You want an answer, don't you? To begin, in general terms, to see if a country is safe to go back to, a careful assessment is made from the Netherlands. This is the responsibility of the State Secretary for Justice and Security, who receives detailed reports from Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Security. He also asked the Foreign Office for a general message from Syria. That is again foreseen for 2018. In doing so, they shall use all available information. They weigh and assess that information. In fact, we always do that with countries from which people come who, in our view, may or may not be eligible for protection. By the way, if refugees with temporary residence status do indeed return to Syria, this may give rise to the withdrawal of their residence permit in individual cases. That is also being looked at critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u256	Maybe I can give a tip to the Prime Minister. Perhaps we can include them in the assessment: they go back to the country of origin to celebrate the Sugar Festival, yes then no. If that's a yes, then the whole group can go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u257	You're very practical. I have now answered a number of questions through the interruptions, so I am not going to answer them again. Maybe I can do one thing at this point; that's all gonna work out for one, I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u258	Cup 7 in 10 minutes, all of you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u259	Yes. I actually wanted to say two more things on this point, then I will move on to the next issue. Firstly, there is intensive cooperation on security and defence, including in Europe. A question has been asked about this by Mr Brinkman. This has to do with permanent structured cooperation and the establishment of a European Defence Fund. We're working on that. We do not want a European army, but we do want European cooperation in all areas. You can see that Europe is also increasingly acting together. We see that in the training mission in Mali, where the Malian army is trained. We see this in the piracy mission, for example in the maritime mission in the Mediterranean, and also in the mission to bring stability to Africa in a broader sense. The European Union is also committed to this as a collective effort. Then we've been asked about the extra investments for the Defense Department. Of this, I can say that they are necessary to get the armed forces in order and that we also take our commitments seriously. In the first quarter of 2018, the Defence Minister explains how we will further strengthen and renew the military force. I think it is an important next step towards achieving jointly agreed objectives. And yes, the Netherlands complies with the 20% investment quota, because with the additional resources it will increase to 21% in 2018 and will then be around 25% at the end of the government period. With regard to nuclear weapons, as the last point in foreign policy, the Netherlands is very active and we have also looked at whether we could work together in the context of the Nuclear Ban Treaty. In the end, this did not work because it violates our NATO obligations. We should no longer be working with nuclear-weapon countries. That would mean no more cooperation with France, England and the United States, who are open about it. Moreover, the conclusions of the Nuclear Ban Treaty were not verifiable and could also be harmful, we believe, for our active commitment to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. That brings me to my last topic, the questions that have been asked about climate and energy. I will not repeat all the objectives set out in the coalition agreement, but you are, of course, aware of the ambition of the cabinet, even in favour of a target of 55% reduction by 2030 at European level. It is true that there is a climate law in the Lower House, an initiative proposal. I have already said in the debate in the House of Representatives that we are in favour of discussions with the initiators to see whether different initiatives can be put together. There is no guarantee, but the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate has now had the first talks on this subject and they are continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u260	Mr Schalk on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u261	It happened so fast that I missed out on the government's 2% NATO standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u262	Yes, since Wales in 2014, we've reconfirmed that. But then the question is whether you are there with this 1.5 billion. No. Can I give certainty about further investments already? No. Is the ambition there? Yes. But then it must be possible in the whole of the financial considerations. Then there was the question of climate policy. It referred to an excellent pamphlet of yours truly from 2008. We looked it up together yesterday and reread it again. Mr De Jonge also thought it was a strong piece, I saw. Anyway, of course that was nine years ago. In any case, for me personally, I see a lot of that thinking back in the coalition agreement. But it will also apply to Christian Union, D66, CDA and the rest of the VVD that they find much in the climate agreement. That is actually because we say: we want to achieve these goals, but at the same time we have the following ambition as the Netherlands: listen, we are leading the water sector, we are leading the food sector, what would it be nice if in a few years' time we in the world are leading the way in tackling these climate problems. And because that's what we're doing, we're making a lot of dime out of each other. This coalition would not be against that. However, the first objective is, of course, to prevent and reduce the climate crisis. Questions have also been asked about the objectives. We have this ambitious objective, we are focusing on CO reduction, not on specific instruments or techniques. With this, we also opt for the most cost-effective mix of measures, so that we can achieve more climate impact with the available budget. Carbon capture and storage seems to be an interesting technique, but it needs to be further developed. There are discussions about exactly how much you can accommodate the CO reduction target. We're all going to work that out, but we think this is important to achieve a low-carbon economy in time, so we'd like to keep this in the mix. This is also demonstrated by studies by the Plan Bureau for the Environment, which also show that the CCS target is ambitious, but also feasible. This is also seen in projects in Norway and Canada. It is important to start the first projects quickly, so that you can also apply that technique more widely in a while, so towards 2030. But in a mix of measures, along with many other measures, it is an instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u263	It's always nice to hear the Prime Minister so optimistic. He is very optimistic about this CO storage, because we hear from all sides, including industry, a lot of objections and doubts about the feasibility of these ambitious CO storage plans, whether they can be realised. Quite apart from the fact that it does not, of course, launch a sustainable reform, because it is basically just to put the pollution away, but not structuralally to work on the transition. And even with money, the SDE+ grants, which are intended for that transition. So I'd like a response from Prime Minister Rutte. And if it is not possible to achieve it, then it is even more pressing for additional measures to achieve that 49%. My question to the Prime Minister is also to what extent he can guarantee that the additional package promised will eventually achieve that 49%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u264	The point is that there are many proposals for CCS from industry. The industry wants to do that. We really don't know exactly how much it's gonna be. In the preparation of the PBL it stood to twenty. In the Lower House there is a discussion with GroenLinks, which says: we only have thirteen. That's 15 or 16, but that's not how it's gonna work. You're gonna have to get sharp thinking in the next few days. But I really advocate keeping this in the package of the mix of the many instruments we need to meet the CO reduction target.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u265	Just a little more specific. The Planning Office has indicated that only half of these 49% are being implemented with the measures that have now been agreed. Will the Prime Minister promise that the additional package will achieve the objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u266	The formation has taken a long time, but we haven't been able to cover everything. The coalition agreement states how you could divide between all kinds of techniques to achieve the CO reduction target. I think we've taken that over from the PBL too. Next, a number of suggestions are mentioned for each heading how to do that. If you add it up, it will lead to about half of the target. I liked that: we had to start and then we had already done half of it. Of course, we have a minister for that too. We're gonna go through with this. We sail here on the compass of the Planning Office for the Environment, because you must have an objective inspector somewhere. We are very ambitious, but we are not going to throw away instruments now. This will need to be carefully mapped out on a multiannual basis. GroenLinks also has CCS in the plans. It's not new, not even for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u267	In addition to this. I find it interesting that the Prime Minister says that the cabinet is not going to throw away instruments. Does this also mean that the impact of CO-polluting consumer behaviour could be included in the measures? So far little has actually been heard of this. We know that livestock products have a major impact on CO emissions. Is it possible, as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, to influence consumer behaviour in such a way as to combat CO?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u268	If he means a meat tax, we don't want it. If he asks whether the agricultural sector should also contribute to the environmental objective, the answer is yes. See also the agreements we have made on the warm clean-up of pig farming. That is also what funds are earmarked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u269	That is a curious follow-up to 'we are not going to throw away instruments'. The Prime Minister says right after that that the cabinet does not want meat tax. That is a very contradictory point of departure, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u270	Support among the population for what we are doing here is important. We really want broad support for the policy we are pursuing. We are not in favour of such measures, no. That's right. I'm being honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u271	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u272	Finally, sure. For sweeping the dirt under the rug, so putting it under the bottom of your CO, is also no support for the population. In that sense, you are making a bit of an arbitrary choice, which suggests that you want to leave a sector out of the question. That makes me fear the worst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u273	No, because agriculture is simply going to contribute to the CO reduction target. That will have to be done; that is also in the PBL's configurations. There's no other way. The CDA has asked for new islands, further off the Dutch coast, as a gathering point for all kinds of economic and energy clean activities. The joint top sectors and the parties behind the South-Holland Coastal Initiative have suggested the idea of a ring of islands off the North Sea coast in 2030 I think this was referred to for living, working, recreation, food, more renewable energy and also coastal defence. That idea is part of an ongoing project that should lead to proposals in 2018. So we don't have any further things at the moment, but it's in process and we'll get back to it by ourselves. The Ministries of IenW and of EZK are working together on a strategic agenda for the North Sea, including an implementation programme. This thinking is part of that. For coal-fired power stations, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate will quickly inform Parliament on how he intends to achieve the closure. I would also like to refer briefly to the coalition agreement, in which we made very specific political agreements on this point. The Minister of Economic Affairs will send a further letter to the House of Representatives to map the average energy bill for households between 2017 and 2021, as well as the impact of the government agreement in this regard. The attempt is to do this for the budget treatment EZK, so this week. Questions have been asked as a result of the manure fraud. May I say on this point that it is important for the Dutch livestock sector to develop within the environmental limits? That's a choice we make as a cabinet. Thus, a phosphate duty system is introduced to ensure that phosphate production remains below the agreed ceiling. The sector must show that it takes this issue seriously. Climate policy, as I said, is also being called for by this sector. In addition to behavioural measures, this means innovation, for example for manure processing or precision agriculture, to enable development within environmental boundaries. Much has been done to make agriculture more sustainable. Nevertheless, we must note that there is still social unrest about the risks. Together with agriculture and horticulture, local authorities and other stakeholders, we will continue to invest in sustainability. There are also a number of important measures in the coalition agreement on this point. At this point there was a question about standards. During an interplay debate with this Chamber, the Minister of LNV promised to send an action plan to the Chamber in mid-December. What has happened at this point is damaging to the whole sector. That is why it is a good thing that the government does not take responsibility on its own. Of course, the Minister of LNV will look critically at the plan of action to see if it is sufficient. She will also send the plan to the Chamber with an appreciation. Together with the Minister of JenV, she is looking at ways to increase the effectiveness of enforcement and improve compliance. Finally, a question has been asked about the division of labour around the Environmental Law, housing stock and so on, so how we planologically deal with all kinds of issues. Actually, it's very simple. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for spatial planning and the Environment Act. Climate policy in the context of energy policy coherence has been assigned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. The Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality is fully responsible for agriculture, nature policy, food policy and regional issues. In this way, we think that, in good cohesion and cooperation, we can deal with the major issues that lie ahead, including in the area of the regions. With regard to the protection of heritage, I can say in the direction of the CDA that this is one of the key points in the policy of the cabinet. An example of this is the approach to emptying historical agricultural buildings. Without re-destination, these buildings are likely to be lost. At the same time, care institutions are looking for affordable accommodation for different target groups. Using these agricultural buildings for care farms is therefore a win-win situation. Also in cities there are monuments that can use adjustments for another destination. You can also look at empty churches. They also receive special attention. Of course, money has been allocated for this. Finally, I would like to return to the question of investment in the housing market. In response to a question from the CDA, I can say that the Minister for the Interior is discussing with the regions in the short term the problem of housing in densely populated areas, but also the situation in the various regions. In addition, she is talking to key stakeholders about accelerating housing. This is an important priority, because in addition to an unabated commitment to increasing construction production, the cabinet also attaches great importance to making better use of existing stock, flow and making greater use of flexible forms of housing. That is simply because we are seeing tensions on the market. There is a lot of demand for homes, of course also because of the low interest rates. Especially in regions where this tension is more palpable, it is important to pursue house production further and to remove as many obstacles as possible. The cabinet is working hard on this, but of course it is still in the scaffolding. Mr President, if no one pops up angry anymore, I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u274	Mrs Faber's coming, watch out!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u275	Mr President, I am not angry, but I do miss a few answers to three questions. I had asked the Prime Minister if he was aware of the strong suspicions about the proceeds of halal products and their certification, namely that they could be deployed by terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u276	Yeah, I skipped that question for a while, but I'm fine with going into it. When it comes to terrorist organisations, several sources of income are possible, mainly from illegal activities. This year, the national risk analysis on terrorist financing will be sent to the Chamber. The Financial Intelligence Unit gives priority to the further financial picture of possible jihadists and facilitators and brings the relevant financial relationships into focus. Since 1 February 2015, the Financial Expertise Centre has been working with other organisations to combat terrorist financing. We are adding 13 million more to the fight against terrorism. Those are all things we do. I don't recognize the specific money flow referenced to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u277	The Prime Minister doesn't recognize it, but is he prepared to investigate it further? In France, the halal market is worth 7 billion. When buying halal food, part of the price goes to the Union of Islamic Organisations of France. That organization has strong ties with the Muslim Brotherhood. In America there is the Islamic Society of North America, the ISNA. He also issues certificates, and he has ties to Hamas. I'm not talking about little guys they issue certificates to. That happens, for example, to McDonalds, Walmart, Pizza Hut and Subway. This means that non-Muslims also pay for halal. If it is true that part of this turnover is used for terrorist activities, then we all pay for it. Is the Prime Minister prepared to investigate further whether these practices exist in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u278	It is even more beautiful, because it is precisely through the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Financial Expertise Centre that permanent research is being carried out into terrorist funding flows. If this were a theme, it would appear at some point. But we're not diving specifically in halal. No, what you're doing is constantly looking at the wrong money flows. That seems much wiser to me than you're gonna respond to any rumor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u279	Is the Prime Minister prepared to include the halal certification in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u280	No, because I have no reason to worry about that right now. That should, at some point, pop up from all the good work done by these organisations, the FIU and the FEC. If it turns out things aren't right, then you can follow up, but we're already three what ifs ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u281	You will have to deal with that for a while, Mrs Faber, but there is still a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u282	I had two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u283	You can specify which questions have not been answered. Then the answers come in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u284	I had asked another question about the inequality between the corporal and a foreign partner in Defence and the Dutch minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u285	Corporal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u286	I'd like to point it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u287	No, no, we're gonna... sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u288	And what was your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u289	I see official nodding. The question is recognized. I'm gonna try and find an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u290	And the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u291	I showed the Prime Minister a laundry list of cases that led him to press charges against him. I asked him whether he would like to undo that laundry list of discrimination against Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u292	I don't think it's right for me to tire of something that's under the judge. So I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u293	I understand you're done with your first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-3.u294	I shall suspend the sitting for lunch until 1.45 p.m., but first two more announcements. The Finance Committee meets at 1.30 p.m. The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment will meet at 1.45 p.m.
