ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery, the MPs and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following the shooting incident in Alphen aan den Rijn on 9 April 2011, the Research Council for Security has examined the legal weapon control system and made a number of recommendations. That's what the bill we're talking about today is about. With this bill, the government wants to achieve that legal weapons will only be in the hands of those who are able to cope with the far-reaching responsibility that arms possession, in particular firearms, entails. In this context, it proposes, inter alia, increased screening for gun owners. That increase consists of a number of elements. Firstly, a reversal of the burden of proof: the accent shifts from the holiday worker to the applicant. Anyone who wishes to obtain an arms licence, an authorisation document, must now actively demonstrate that possession of a firearm can be entrusted to him or her. Secondly, anyone who wants a gun permit must make the application in person. In addition, a study of the mental state should be carried out. This concerns a digital questionnaire, the e-screener, to be completed under the supervision of the police station. I shall return to this point in a moment, Mr President. If the applicant does not cooperate, he or she will not be granted an arms licence or an arms leave. Thirdly, the applicant must be present at the verification of compliance and the applicant must personally collect the authorisation document. In total, therefore, there are three contact moments at the request of a weapons license. I come back to the e-screener, the digital questionnaire on the psychological condition of the applicant. These are a number of questions which everyone knows will almost certainly lead to the rejection of the application if the answer is 'yes'. In doing so, both the police and the KNSA, the Royal Netherlands Sports Association, indicated that the e-screener raises false expectations, whether positive or negative, and even that it will have no added value for security. And that is exactly what this instrument is meant for. The reaction of the Secretary of State to the KNSA's criticism on this point has again led to a counter-response of the KNSA, maintaining its position on this part. I quote from the letter from the KNSA of 22 March last: 'A review by a non-validated instrument has undesirable consequences for the sportsmen, many will be mistakenly regarded as a psychic risk'. End of quote. If the e-screener does not achieve the intended goal, we will charge the police with extra work and society with false security. Neither of them can count on my group's support. My group has always said that the police must enforce the existing rules. Unfortunately, this has not happened or not done enough in the past. House visits to gun holders were and are not a priority. In the Alphen case to den Rijn, an arms licence was wrongly granted to the perpetrator. He was granted a gun license after a suicide attempt, a hospital admission and despite protest from his parents. If existing documentation is not consulted, this is culpable, but cannot be remedied by further regulation. Now it is the sportsmen who, in the eyes of many, have a somewhat separate hobby, but who do comply with the existing rules and are now faced with further regulation. In an earlier general discussion, I said literally: for the PVV it is important to do as much as possible to close the gaps in the existing regulations and at the same time not to make shooting sport virtually impossible for people who have nothing to do with it. My group therefore does not yet agree with the reversal of the burden of proof. It's time to draw the line. Safety above all else, but no one is served by false security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	You mentioned the e-screener. I understand from your words that you have some doubts about the results, based on the test at this point. But the psychic condition of an applicant can be very relevant. This test was developed by the Trimbos Institute, which I consider sensible in this respect. Couldn't it have added value to take that test? You can always see what you're doing with it later. But to reject the whole thing by not agreeing to the bill, I would find it a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	I have read the necessary criticism of the development of the e-screener. That was not a criticism of the Trimbos Institute itself, but of the instrument, which was developed as a result of the behaviour of sex offenders, which is something completely different. It's called a non-validated instrument. Validation should be a prerequisite for its deployment. My group therefore has doubts about this. There will be a questionnaire which everyone knows will not be authorised if it is answered in the affirmative to the question of suicidal tendencies. People are going to fill in the desired answers. On this point, too, my group has its doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Perhaps those doubts can still be overcome by the answer given by the Secretary of State. So if such a test has been validated and scientifically substantiated to some extent, and can therefore contribute to preventing the granting of a weapons license to someone who cannot be considered physically capable of possessing a weapon, does the PVV see added value in e-screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	That is why I said that my group does not yet agree with the reverse burden of proof, which includes e-screening. The Secretary of State can certainly make an effort to convince us, but that should have been done in the written round. It can always be done in this oral procedure. Then I will return to my group. My group does agree with another aspect: permanent control of arms owners on the basis of recordings on the basis of the BOPZ. We will never know for sure, but this might have prevented the situation in Alphen aan den Rijn. This permanent monitoring of admissions is very important, since in case of hospitalisation, someone is a danger to himself or his environment. The Chief Constable will be actively informed through the Public Prosecutor of measures taken under the BOPZ Act. This is done by means of a linking of all abbreviations; if Mr Elias were chairman, I would be the cocktail today, the BOPZ system of the prosecutor to the Verona police system. Based on a hit/no hit system, it will be automated to check that a person is in both systems. In a hit, it is recorded in Verona, which is visible to the police that someone has been in a psychiatric hospital, as Tristan van der Vlis has done. It is only reported that the person concerned is present in that register, but that too is a plus. My group would like to know from the Secretary of State whether that link has already been established. If so, does it work properly? If not, how long will that link be ready? My group has already indicated in an earlier general consultation that it agrees with all the measures taken to prevent a terrible incident such as in Alphen aan de Rijn. However, I have always questioned the enforcement of the rules, as I have heard from several sources, and I said that at the beginning of my speech, even though "home visits, checking, is not a priority'. That really needs to be put an end to right away. Finally, I would like to come back to a point that I mentioned earlier in a general consultation on 6 December 2012, namely the entry into the property of the weapons licence holder if access to the property is refused. Former Minister Opstelten indicated at the time that he would consider my proposal to withdraw leave if a second unannounced check again refused entry to the house. I don't see anything about this in the bill. That is why the question to the Secretary of State as to what happened to it. In conclusion, as I said in response to an interruption by my colleague Mr Van Oosten, I would like to point out that, depending on the answers given by the Secretary of State, I will advise my group whether or not to accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. Liquidation wave in the Netherlands, according to the headline of the Telegraaf of 2 February this year. The five weeks before that, four liquidations were carried out. For the past three years, again the Telegraph, 60 people in our country have been wound up. We all know that these types of liquidations are generally not carried out by people who have been authorised to handle a weapon legally. Such liquidations are not carried out by the passionate sports shooter or the hunter. These kind of liquidations are carried out by unsatisfied criminals, by assassins, who are disregarding our legal system and who will therefore not be concerned at all with all that we are discussing here this morning in wisdom. However, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State what steps have been taken in the fight against illegal possession of weapons. How is the source, the illegal arms dealer, being dealt with? How does cooperation and the exchange of information proceed? And that is where I attach a great deal of importance to the issue of how to increase sanctions, not only for the possession of weapons, but also for the use of them? The practice of kalashnikovs with the aim of preparing for liquidation must be punishable as if that liquidation had actually taken place. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then the law itself. The VVD can agree to this proposal, because it is intended not to give weapons to people who cannot be entrusted with this property. That would be totally irresponsible. For this, many factors can be a reason, such as clinical reasons, stressful circumstances, hardcore aggression and manifestations of radicalisation. I realise, of course, that this law does not provide a 100% guarantee that someone is not wrongly granted a gun licence, just as the law can remove the risk that someone, in a moment of insanity, is causing a tragedy. But it does contribute to reducing the risks as much as possible. I have a few more questions and I will pass them on to the Secretary of State through the chairman. I would also like to see a tightening up. This proposal should lead to convictions for a violent crime in principle leading to a person not having a weapon. Criminal backgrounds are then considered relevant. It looks back up to eight years. But why is it limited to that? If someone, in my view, asked the CDA that question nine years ago, committed a violent crime, shouldn't that also be relevant when considering whether someone could be entrusted with a weapon? In other words, are convictions for violent crimes also taken into account in the period preceding those eight years? Then a conviction within eight years. That does not necessarily mean, as I understand from answers from the Secretary of State, that someone should be kept away from firearms. In fact, an answer states that in very exceptional cases, even in the case of a recent conviction, an arms licence can still be granted. I would like to have a more detailed explanation of this, because I have serious reservations about this. I have an amendment in preparation that could not yet be circulated because I am putting the final touches to the explanatory statement. In fact, in my opinion, if you are convicted of a serious violent crime, murder, manslaughter, piracy, etc., you are not entitled to an arms license for a period of eight years. Even if you've been mentally committed, you should never be able to claim a license for a weapon. That's my little bridge to the next topic. Indeed, I have the same reservations with regard to people who have been or have been forced to be mentally absorbed. I will continue my speech on this point immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I assume that Mr Van Oosten is talking about BOPZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Many danger criteria have been included. One of the criteria, for example, is that someone cannot properly perform care for someone who is entrusted to their care. Does Mr Van Oosten also see a tightening-up in the speech for this type of category? This is because we are talking about a very different form of danger than the one at issue in the question of whether someone should have an arms leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	The answer is yes. I would prefer not to take a risk with people who are forced into psychiatric care. Of course, that doesn't just happen in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's not really an answer to the question. If there is a danger of someone not being able to take care of someone else properly, there is a very different danger from the question of whether someone can be entrusted with a weapon. Mr Van Oosten, as it were, takes this very broad category as a starting point in a different assessment framework. I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	I will give you an answer to the question as to whether it also sees the situations you are setting out. My answer to that question is yes. When it is decided in this country that you are forced to be mentally absorbed, that is not just happening; there are experts looking at it, and there is a good reason behind it which can be quite varied in terms of the subject matter. Besides, I'm not the only one who thinks that. The police documents state that she too has put questions to the Secretary of State on this point in order for the law to have that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	I come to my final question, Mr President. Another category within the BOPZ are umbrella permissions. These are permissions where someone can be treated in an out-patient manner but may be withdrawn. Is this category, as far as Mr Van Oosten is concerned, subject to compulsory recordings, because this seems to be a different kind of framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	I'm talking about the forced psychiatric admissions. In doing so, someone has forced a period to stay in a psychiatric facility and someone has to be treated for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	D66 is asking very relevant questions. You have to look very critically at the BOPZ, especially since we are changing the whole system. There are initiatives around the BOPZ and there is a legislative process. That is why I ask Mr van Oosten to divide his amendment into an amendment on BOPZ and an amendment on serious crimes of violence that someone has been convicted of within eight years. I can very well imagine that you would like to get out of that decision, but I fully agree with the criticism. At the BOPZ you also see a little space coming up, which makes you have to ask yourself if you want to leave that stigma on someone with whom something has ever happened and who is just as safe as you and I. So I ask the VVD to split up the amendment. Then we're gonna be a partner who thinks hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'd like to take that thought with me. I don't know if it's filed as we speak, by the way. But I wanted to mention that I intend to table this amendment in the way I introduced it, with the two things being linked together. I can also see if I can do that in two parts. I will not be able to do that during this debate, but I can see how far I can get to that point. For the sake of the discussion, I would like to mention it, because then I can also bring with me exactly these kinds of thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Then I'm gonna ask you a little bit more. Does Mr Van Oosten also have any regard for the fact that people in their lives can ever be harmed, but that they are as safe after treatment as you and I? Then we can. Isn't it a little unwise to forever stigmatize these people and say: you can't even join a "shutterie"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I would point out two things. The situation presented by Mrs Van Toorenburg may arise in the case of people convicted of a serious violent crime. In that amendment, I say: in the event that an irrevocable conviction has taken place in the last eight years, it is a no-go. For that, you have to let it matter. But there comes this proportionality when it comes to forced psychiatric admission. I am somewhat more relentless with regard to the other part of the amendment, which Mrs Van Toorenburg says: split it up. I would just rather not have people who have been forced into psychiatric custody, whatever the reason behind that decision, be able to obtain a gun permit. I would therefore also like that knowledge to be taken into account at least in the consideration to be given. That is what my objection is really about. That therefore relates to the time limit for the knowledge of such a forced recording to be known. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. As it stands, that knowledge can be destroyed after five years. I'm having a bit of a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	I have just spoken with my colleague Hanke Bruins Slot about this, who is very active in this legislation. I have heard that those deadlines are being extended at this time and that they have been for 15 years. Actually, that five years probably doesn't add up, because it's medical records. So it's 15 years now. That bill has gone into consultation; it is likely to go to twenty years. This period may also be extended for certain situations. With regard to the BOPZ there are really a few things in the pipeline and there are still some things to discuss. I would really like to insist: take it apart, because we are destroying more in relation to the BOPZ than is perhaps necessary and just.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	I can hear what Mrs Van Toorenburg is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think it is a noble ambition of Mr Van Oosten not to allow people convicted of a serious crime of violence to benefit from an arms licence for eight years. But these people are not going to apply for a gun license; they are going to take a weapon out of the illegal circuit. So my question to Mr Van Oosten is: shouldn't there even be some more room for detectives to detect illegal firearms in connection with such an attack in the State People's District?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	I have not just started my contribution by referring to illegal possession of firearms for nothing. I agree with Mrs Helder that, of course, there is the big problem. Then you're not talking about that passionate shooter. What we are talking about now is the limitation of the group of passionate athletes who may not be entrusted with such a weapon. I might be a little tougher on that than Mrs Helder. But when it comes to tackling the illegal arms dealer, the source, when it comes to tackling the illegal possessor of arms, we can find each other and I simply think that this cabinet should act where space and opportunity exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes, where space and opportunity exist. Space and the possibility cost money as a rule, and that is not what the VVD is usually doing, and the future we have to wait and see. In the election program, the VVD is. I would not like to ask Mr Van Oosten: is the VVD going to give more money to it? Then I get the answer that there are formation talks. But can I see a positive opening? Is there any active thought in this? I am not asking whether any of my group's points will be taken up, but whether we will once again be actively involved in the question of how we are going to give them our hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think you can always find me on your side when it comes to tackling illegal arms trafficking. I have just given you an advance on the issue of penalising a liquidation that has not yet been carried out. Let people who practice with a kalashnikov for the sake of liquidation be punished as if that liquidation had been committed. I think that's a long way from what you have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	Finally, Mrs Helder, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	In fact, this is all in the direction of a situation on which I asked questions to the then Minister Van der Steur in general consultation. I asked him to take a look at the situation in England, where illegal possession of weapons is heavily fined. The Minister did not think that was necessary, nor did Mr Van Oosten. I think it is very nice that there is room for manoeuvre today, which may lead to a different situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to follow up on my comment on psychologically compulsory recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	I have already said a few things, but for the sake of the Acts, I do not think it would be wise for patients to be able to destroy the medical record of forced admission after five years on request. I understand from Mrs Van Toorenburg that other legislation is in the process of being adopted. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State, but I am referring to the answers I have received from the cabinet itself about the clarity of forced psychiatric admissions, because I believe that this transparency should be there and should also extend to a period before those five years. That is, after all, important in this consideration. I have a few more questions about different themes. I'll start with my questions about the execution. It is of course important that this bill does not become a paper tiger. An adequate link between ICT systems and the police is crucial. Is the appropriate coupling guaranteed? How is it ensured that the prosecutors will assume the standard of duty to pass on forced psychiatric admissions to the police, even if there is no specific request for information? Most psychiatric patients, of course, do not have a gun permit at all. So as a state's attorney, you just have to think about that for a while. And how is it ensured that the officer who then receives that report will also get to work immediately? Is there, for example, any knowledge of this proposed legislative amendment? I have a similar question about dealing with incoming reports from third parties about someone who happens to have a gun license, for example a report of domestic violence. By default, is the police officer checking if the suspect has a gun on who's coming in? Are we going to act as if we were to take that weapon away or are we going to look at it first? Also relevant is how the so-called false reports are handled. Finally, and with that I conclude, I come to the relevance of a criminally violent past or forced psychiatric admissions. That's how I find it relevant to whether someone's been disbarred by a shooting club. Shouldn't that mean that someone would no longer have a weapon and that his permit would be revoked, so that such a disbarred member would not sign up with another gunfighter's association and bypass the royalty along that road? Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen of D66. To him today it's his maiden speech. That means that only you have the floor and no one is allowed to interfere with you, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday it was six years ago that in Alphen on the Rhine there was a tragedy that killed six people and injured many others. For the victims and survivors of that tragedy in Alphen aan den Rijn, this debate is probably another painful reminder of that event. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my condolences to them. I know from my previous position as a state's attorney how much the impact of serious violent crimes on people is. As a member of this Chamber, I hope to take this practical experience with me. I want to work on good, effective, enforceable and, above all, just rules, in the belief that we can only give substance to the principle that the government is there for people and not the other way around. Following "Alphen aan den Rijn," the Security Research Council extensively reviewed the system of legal possession of weapons and made a number of recommendations. One of these recommendations was to include a law requiring an applicant for an arms licence to provide more insight into his personal situation. The bill we're discussing today will work out that recommendation. It introduces a more extensive review, consisting of a mandatory e-test, the declaration of three referees and control of recordings under the BOPZ Act. First of all, my group is struck by the fact that this bill has been delayed for six years. Of course, it is very important to implement legislation carefully, but six years is a very long time, especially since the report of the Research Council dates back to 2011. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he can explain why it took so long before we can discuss this bill now. I come to my next point. Making a law is one thing, maintaining it a second. The practice wants to show that things are going wrong right there. Monitoring and monitoring of compliance are crucial. This requires sufficient capacity and sufficient quality in the police. As far as my group is concerned, it is therefore of the utmost importance that the Secretary of State should closely monitor compliance with the new rules. Can the Secretary of State undertake that there is sufficient quality and capacity available to the police for the application of these rules and their control? This question brings me to another aspect, namely European cooperation. I read in the report of the Research Council that in Belgium there is no e-test but a statement from a general practitioner is requested. That sounds like a lighter touch to me. I therefore wonder whether it is possible for someone who is not on arms leave in the Netherlands to cross the border to buy a weapon legally there, for example with a doctor's certificate. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether anyone who is refused arms leave in the Netherlands can legally obtain an arms licence elsewhere in Europe by making use of differences in regulations? Can the Secretary, if possible, indicate how he intends to come up with a coherent European approach? Another important aspect, as far as I am concerned, is the illegal trade in arms. The report of the Research Council shows that most deadly shootings in the Netherlands are carried out with illegal weapons. However, the discussion paper on the police and prosecution deficit shows that arms trafficking remains largely out of the sight of the police and the judiciary. In order to reduce the risk of serious shootings, it is precisely the fight against illegal arms trafficking that is very important. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Can he indicate how he is going to deal with the illicit trade in arms or does he intend to step up this approach? Despite the proper intention of this bill, we must realise that tragic incidents cannot be ruled out. There is no such thing as absolute safety. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that politicians do not give the impression that they do exist. People must, of course, be able to trust that politics will do everything in its power to minimise the risk of a repetition of 'Alphen aan den Rijn'. In addition, we also consider critically whether our rules work properly in practice. The D66 Group is therefore surprised that the evaluation period of this system change is five years. That's what happens to her. It's been a long time. After all, it would mean that if this bill were to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities this year, after examination, we would not be able to evaluate it until 2022. That's 11 years after Alphen aan den Rijn. My group understands that legislation should first be properly implemented, but would rather look at whether the system works in practice, what bottlenecks there are and whether adjustments are needed. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State why he has chosen this long term, especially since the Security Research Council has also recommended that the Ministry be informed annually by the police about the effectiveness of the system. Depending on the answers given by the Secretary of State, my group is considering tabling an amendment on this matter. I'll come to a conclusion. My group is in principle in favour of this proposal. However, we must ensure that it does not become a paper tiger. No one gets anywhere with symbol laws. Enforcement, sufficient capacity and a coherent European approach are essential to give this proposal a real chance of success. I hope, therefore, that the Secretary of State can convince my group that with this bill we can actually reduce the risk of incidents involving legal weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you for this lovely speech. I see all kinds of colleagues sitting in the benches who would like to congratulate you. I now give the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by congratulating Mr Groothuizen on his maiden speech and on his accession to this Chamber? It is always nice to see people who are very involved in the field here in the Chamber, also on subjects they know so much about. So let me have said straight away that I am particularly pleased because three of his colleagues have been left behind in this Chamber. As a CDA, I am actually happy that there has been a little more crimefighter's blood coming into the Chamber from D66. Each time everything that was about enforcement and security leaned directly to be smothered by "privacy" and "help, help." So a little crimefighter's blood wouldn't hurt. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Helder, who should always be the first speaker. It always indicates in a very pure way just as briefly for the listener and the viewer about which a law is about. Maybe it's not such a crazy idea to do that here in the future when we deal with legislative proposals. I just thought of it, Mr. Chairman; allow me. In fact, either the Secretary of State or someone else as the first speaker should always be given the task of briefly indicating, outside his speaking time, what the legislative proposal is about. Moreover, it is not always necessary to do it outside the speaking time, because in legal proceedings you always have unlimited speaking time. So much for the jolly words, because we are talking about a very serious subject today. We are talking today about the tension between the makeable world and reality. In the makeable world we think that with a control, a test, a good result or the stamp "okay" we make the world safer. But the reality is, of course, that we see dangers in very different ways. We're talking about legal possession of weapons today, but there's also a lot of illegal possession. Unfortunately, the reality is that very ordinary things, such as trucks, are now being made up of horrible weapons. We are talking about something that offers limited security, but it is nevertheless important. We are also talking about the tension between privacy and security. It's not just D66 that's always paying attention. This subject must always be discussed. How are we going to protect physical integrity and privacy aspects while at the same time doing something about safety, awareness and information about dangerous people? That's what today's about. There remain dilemmas and difficult considerations. That's a good thing. Today's balancing forces us to go back to something that happened six years ago this week. A young man who previously had severe psychiatric problems and suicidal tendencies shoots around a mall. Six people die. At least 17 people get hurt. The number of victims is many times greater, because next of kin still have to live daily with the loss and countless people do not get the images from their retina. We are very sorry for them, even now. The shock of this tragedy actually only increased when it became clear that this person, who was so tormented, ultimately had a weapon legally. How could someone like that legally have a gun? "This should not be possible" was the general call in our society. Such a sentence has been spoken very quickly. It should not be possible, but how do you ensure that the fact that this should not be possible actually takes shape? This requires, first and foremost, a very good exchange of information. But this good exchange of information is about very sensitive aspects. How stable is someone? What does that mean for the space he or she gets in our society? The proposal before us is a good and serious attempt, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, to make that assessment more accurate. However, we keep saying that not all risks can be excluded. There are a few things to say about this exchange of information. Let me start with the automatic coupling between the two systems. Mrs. Helder described it very neatly. Mr Van Oosten says that he thinks that all kinds of people still have to act. However, I have just read that there will be an automatic "hit/no hit." So once you get into one system, there's a link to the other system and there's an alert. I'd like the Secretary of State to tell me exactly what's going on. Apparently, there's a lack of clarity about it, and it needs to be removed. Have we not seen correctly in the situation in Alphen aan den Rijn that we may not always make the right balance when people intervene? That brings me to my next point. Do we always have to make a trade-off? We asked questions about this in the written round. There will be an amendment to this subject. I think that we want to support this or perhaps even sign in for a re-evaluation. Do you even have to want someone to get another gun in eight years after a conviction for a serious violent crime? You know, I think that's too bad. It is a hobby, and for some it is an important and valuable hobby, but some rights you just lose if you've done some really serious things. That could be different with the BOPZ. After all, we are now debating whether we should not intervene earlier, even if this is in a less invasive and far-reaching way. Shouldn't we keep certain data? That should be assessed by health care authorities. I understand that this is being done at the moment and that longer periods can be taken into account and therefore no longer merely fifteen, but possibly twenty years. Is it true that professionals, at least in the proposal that went into consultation, will be able to keep a report when they think it will remain relevant for the future? So there's still a lot going on. I would like to make that a little more clear. The CDA Group has also asked whether it should not be the case that you cannot reapply within one year. I didn't really think the argument I got from the Secretary of State was convincing. He said quite rationally: we have a general law on administrative law and with it there are all kinds of rules; so you can easily reject it again. But someone who gets a rejection because he doesn't know what's going on, I'm just saying a little bit of homely, doesn't make a rational assessment. He's not gonna wait a year and then see if he's gonna reapply. He's just reapplying. If he was rational, he might have gotten a gun license. But now we are going to look in a very technical and legal way at people who are not tracking. Shouldn't we set a threshold? If you want to be eligible, you just have to wait a year. It is rightly said that we do not see all vulnerable people in this way. I am thinking of people with a build-up and severely derailing alcohol addiction or with derailing drug use and also of people who are starting to dement. This requires more, namely a very alert social society. That starts with district agents, but it's certainly also about the healthcare sector. How is the cabinet going to ensure that people are warned a little more in the vein of: pay attention to these aspects too? Maybe someone's a member of a shooting club. Maybe someone will. Maybe someone talked about it. How do we make the people in the neighborhood partner? Finally. I have got a bit of a feeling that the people who engage in a very pleasant way in the arms port are thinking of the fences, the hunting associations and the shooting associations too little by the Secretary of State as a serious partner. They feel like all kinds of rules are being imposed on them, but they don't feel like a serious partner. I think that is a missed opportunity, because that is precisely the associations where people are doing very well. There is strong social cohesion. They can be partners for security. And yes, they like shooting or they're at a fence and they have something you can barely shoot normally with. But these are very valuable traditions. Just make sure these people are our partners and not think they're angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. May I also begin with my compliments and congratulations to Mr Groothuizen? I wasn't even surprised that he pointed out points that I would also point out in my input, such as the importance of maintaining existing rules, the capacity shortages in the police and the importance of tackling illegal weapons. It is often the case that D66 and the SP are very much in favour of this subject. The SP therefore wishes Mr Groothuizen every success in his parliamentary work. In order to own a weapon in the Netherlands, you must have a permit. You get that license if you have a reasonable interest. For example, you're a collector, you practice shooting or hunting. Moreover, there should be no fear of abuse. After the huge tragedy in Alphen aan den Rijn in 2011, it became clear that we can do more to assess whether someone can be entrusted with a weapon. The SP is in favour of increased screening for gun owners. In this way it can be further ensured that weapons are only in the hands of those to whom this far-reaching responsibility can be entrusted. It is right that the application should be made in person with a psychological test specifically developed for this purpose. You must be required to be present at the home checks of the storage. It is also right that mandatory psychiatric recordings in the past should be monitored and monitored on an ongoing basis. I still have a few questions about those last two conditions. The application is therefore checked for mandatory psychiatric recordings in the past. The district attorney will only provide the necessary data on request from the chief of police. So he's just reporting that a recording took place. If such a recording has taken place, it does not necessarily lead to rejection. For that, there is customization that the Chief Constable must apply. Our concern is how the treating police officer is trained and trained for this purpose. How is it assessed in practice whether or not a certain admission in the past is an obstacle to an arms licence? In short, how is it assessed whether or not the danger that led to the recording at the time is present? Is there sufficient capacity to do so? What happens if someone is lost, but is not required by law? He or she is confused, addicted, aggressive or depressed, but insufficient or perhaps not enough for such a recording. In the United Kingdom this is explicitly taken into account by the police and in Belgium, for example, by demanding a doctor's certificate. We do not do that in the Netherlands, but how do we always get a picture of such problems? Among other things, it is mentioned that the district agent, family and directors of shooting sports associations play an important role in this. Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about this. How is it really ensured that this kind of concern comes into the picture at the right time and ends up in the right place? Are the unexpected house visits once every three years and personal contacts with the police at the request sufficient to identify such threats and problems? In addition, there will be a continuous check on psychiatric recordings for holders of an arms license. That is important, because such a permit must, of course, be able to be withdrawn if it is justified. This works on the basis of the hit/no hit system. That means a signal goes to the Chief Constable when a licence holder is admitted. The Chief Constable can then investigate further whether withdrawal is in place. My question, too, is whether this will be the case in all or almost all cases. Are there any possible examples of someone being forced into the hospital but allowed to keep their weapons license? Does this ICT system work flawlessly? Is this clutch really ready for use? This is very important for the success of this policy. I'll continue with the police's workload. In the explanatory memorandum, the government states that there is no additional workload for the police, despite the fact that there is more stringent screening. The Royal Netherlands Sports Association (KSNA) indicates that the workload is already too high. The police are already unable to comply with the legal deadlines applicable to leave applications and renewals and to carry out home checks. The police are also very concerned about this. The police state that this is an extensive and increased screening which will take more time than is currently the case, also because the new requirements and the possibility of counter-video provided by the applicant will lead to an increase in the workload of applications and an increase in the number of appeal cases. According to the Secretary of State, all this is not so bad, as we read in the written round, while at the same time pointing out a conclusion from the Safety and Justice Inspectorate which shows that the necessary size and the desired composition of the teams responsible for the application should be further considered. As a result, the Chief Constable would carry out a workload measurement to see how many employees are needed to carry out those statutory Chief of Staff tasks. What's the status? I'd rather hear what the outcome is. What action will the Secretary of State take in response to this? 70,000 people in the Netherlands together possess about 168 000 weapons, according to the documents. Those are big numbers. We must equip our policemen sufficiently with the important task of ensuring that this is properly and thoroughly monitored. It's kind of crazy, actually. If you make a proposal as a Member of Parliament, you have to provide financial support. You're right. Then we can also ask the government to provide cover in the form of human power. In short, where is your cover in the form of agents enough to fulfil this important role? Finally. Gunshot incidents involving legal weapons are rare. Fortunately, the impact on society is enormous. After the tragedy in Alphen aan den Rijn it appeared that someone had a weapon to whom this could not be entrusted. According to the SP, this justifies these measures. At the same time, we must note that the justified measures we are taking now to better control legal possession of weapons are not going to work against the threat posed by illegal weapons. In fact, they are a much bigger problem and they are also much more difficult to tackle. Several colleagues have already pointed this out. How do we ensure that the large presence of illegal weapons can be better traced? Is there enough capacity in the CID for this? What about international cooperation and information sharing in this area? I am very concerned about this. I'm not asking these questions for nothing. I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Groothuizen on his speech, which speaks of knowledge. I look forward to working together. Today we are discussing the Amendment of the Arms and Ammo Act. The reason for this is an event that occurred six years ago, a painful event in our memories. On 9 April 2011, one of the most shocking shootings of our time took place in Alphen aan den Rijn. Tristan van der V. killed six people before hitting his own hand. Research made it clear that Van der V. had serious psychiatric problems. That didn't stand in the way of legally possessing multiple heavier weapons. In response to Alphen aan den Rijn, the Security Research Council advised that weapons owners should be better screened. This bill provides for this. Naturally, GroenLinks, like the other political groups, supports the main thrust of this bill. The authorisation to possess and use firearms should be subject to a very heavy screening. This may not be nice for the approximately 40,000 bona fide sportsmen who may feel criminalized, but everyone will recognize the importance of preventing a repeat of Alphen aan den Rijn at any price. GroenLinks therefore finds it incomprehensible how the European Firearms Directive has been undressed. The effort should have been made to combat the possession of firearms vigorously. Instead, an entire lobby circus has started to make exceptions to the gun ban, which simply cannot be explained. For example, there are older types of weapons that can easily be converted into automatic weapons. In the end, a proposed ban has not been achieved in the directive. Semiautomatic weapons remain legal for shooting and hunting. In the new directive, the compromise was reached to limit warehouses to 10 p.m. for semi-automatic weapons to 20 p.m. cartridges. That's totally arbitrary. The new European Firearms Directive could have been a good reason to reduce the number of authorised types of firearms and raise enforcement to a higher level. GroenLinks regrets that the negotiations for the new European Firearms Directive have been re-elected. That's a real shame. GroenLinks therefore advocates further national legislation to fill the gaps in the European Firearms Directive at national level. My question to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice is therefore: is he prepared to formulate further national restrictions on the legal possession of weapons? What actions does he intend to take to combat the illegal possession of weapons? For example, what does he think of the idea of organising a voluntary arms return action in the near future? GroenLinks called for this a few years ago, but I know it never happened again. What's the Secretary of State's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Groothuizen on his maiden speech and welcome him to our ranks. I've noticed his background as a district attorney. We still have a former prosecutor in the person of Mr Van Dam, who sits in the benches at the CDA. The gap that Mr Teeven has left is thus filled again. Several spokesmen have already pointed out the terrible drama in the Alphen aan den Rijn shopping centre. If we bring the grief of the next of kin, the desperation of the people in the mall who escaped death back to our retina, we all realise that it is absolutely necessary to see whether our system of authorization and authorisation for possession of a weapon can be tightened, without at the same time undoing the possibilities for shooting and hunting. Following the investigation carried out by the Security Research Council, this bill has now been drawn up. In fact, the essence of it is the better screening, the better research or people who possess a weapon don't do anything wrong with it. It will be clear that the SGP Group also wholeheartedly supports the intention of this bill and, broadly speaking, its elaboration. About all the spokesmen have rightly placed two important relativisations to this bill. Firstly, we must realise that we are talking here about dealing with the legal possession of weapons, but of course there is also a great deal of illegal possession of weapons and that it is incredibly important to increase efforts to tackle this illegal possession of weapons. Secondly, even though we have now more strictly regulated it and we will have a better investigation, we all know that we can never rule out all the risks and that, despite a careful investigation, things will continue to go wrong. These are therefore two relativizations, but nevertheless this legislative proposal represents an important step towards heavier screening. I do have an important question, also in relation to the documents. It may be that there are more signals coming from family, from the neighborhood or from other people involved, for example if there is reason to wonder if it is going well with a person who does have a gun license but from whom someone from the area or from the family says he has a severe drinking problem or psychiatric problems or is on the wrong path. This shows that the social environment has also become more alert. I think that is very important, because it is not just a matter of professionals, of the police and of all those who have a role in it. As citizens, too, we have a responsibility when we see things clearly happening before our eyes. Then my question is, as the legislative proposal states that it is more happening that people who transmit signals are also adequately calculated by the police when these signals come in. Is this being done at the same time, so that they end up in the right place and not somewhere in the bureaucracy, which is also the police? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. My second question is in line with what Mr Van Nispen said: what about the workload for the police? In the end, a lot has been put on the plate of the police organisation in terms of the implementation of this law. Is it already feasible in practice to make serious work of this? I am asking this question not only for the first authorisation but also for the fact that someone needs another extension. I was not quite clear what the difference is yet. I would ask the Secretary of State to go into this further in the case of a new application investigation and in the case of an extension. What is the difference in practice in the research that then takes place? Does this apply in all cases, regardless of whether there is exemption, recognition or leave? So I would like to have a clarification of the system at this point. In the event of an extension, it is required that a serious and thorough examination is made of whether someone should be granted the licence. Is the validity of a one-year hunting certificate, for example, not too short? Don't you run the risk that after that year, you won't see the need to carry out the investigation in depth? Would it not then be wiser to extend the period during which you may have the licence, in the sense that one does not have to go to the police station every year to ask for a new act but that, for example, every three years a very serious and thorough examination is made of whether someone really meets all the conditions? Isn't that better than screening every year? Don't you run the risk of not getting enough of the research in practice? I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. Then I have one more question about e-screening. From the various reactions, especially in the earlier phase of the bill, you noticed quite a bit of scepticism about this drug. I was wondering to what extent this is largely based on unknownness. In the meantime, has there been more clarity among those concerned as to how this screening works exactly? Questions have also been asked about the relationship to the BOPZ Act. We have also made the necessary changes to the whole system, also by means of the Law on Mental Health, which was accepted by the House of Representatives in February and is now in the First Chamber. What exactly are the consequences of that law for this bill? Can the Secretary of State explain why a negative opinion on the basis of this check does not automatically result in a refusal of authorisation? Exactly what room for manoeuvre is in that? Mr Van Oosten of the VVD has proposed a tightening-up of which we still have to get the text. I would like to stress that, certainly in the case of more recent violent crimes, it would seem to us to be a sensible tightening-up of the law if you were to say: in those cases you have a very hard and clear counter-indication and you do not really need to carry out a more detailed investigation because there can be no question of authorising the possession of a weapon. We are still looking at the wording, but at least that thought is very appealing to us. This was my first-term contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose to suspend until 11.30 a.m., after which the Secretary of State will answer the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. I, too, congratulate Mr Groothuizen on his maiden speech. He immediately noticed that politics was being flirted with him from all sides, so I wish him much wisdom in choosing his position among all those advances. I share what Mrs Van Toorenburg said about Mrs Helder's contribution. This input will allow me to shorten my general text, because Mrs Helder has given a very adequate summary of what this law is about. It is mainly a question of stricter procedural requirements for the application for an arms licence. This, of course, comes from the advice of an investigation into a very regrettable and sad incident. The applicant for a permit must be obliged to go to the office and do the e-screener, a psychological test. He must also give up referees who may be able to question the Chief Constable. If you refuse to comply with this, you will not get a permit anyway. We are also getting a better link and sharing of the information available to the D.A. about forced psychiatric care. This will be relevant to the assessment of the application. I have noted two points in the Chamber's contribution. Firstly, there was support for the intentions, but there were also justified critical questions as to whether these means would be used to achieve the goal that we have in mind together. Secondly, I believe that all the spokesmen have pointed out that we are doing our best to change it with guarantees and that we are doing our best to leave the good guys, who, for the sake of the sport of shooting, are doing our best to protect themselves and have absolutely nothing to do with any threat whatsoever. We should not burden them disproportionately with the safeguards that we need for society as a whole to prevent people from getting a gun licence that wants to deal with it in a different way than they do. I can taste that sense of reality, also with regard to the fact that we can never guarantee 100% that it is safe. At the same time, I heard in a number of questions the wording as to whether I, as Secretary of State, can guarantee anything. I ask the Chamber in this context for the same sense of reality. I will say to each question that we cannot guarantee that this law is always going well. However, I think that this way the alertness and awareness of the risks appear more clearly than in the old system. Mr Van Oosten asked about looking back to eight years when it comes to criminal backgrounds. Can no longer be looked back? How exactly does this work? According to its work instruction, the police may not grant leave in the event of minor doubt as to their suitability. The criminal records are, of course, very important in indicating that little doubt. That's also in the Circular Weapons and Ammunition clue. All convictions within four years for the application, and heavier convictions within eight years, are grounds for not granting leave. In the case of serious crimes of violence, illegal possession of weapons, illicit use of weapons and drug offences, the circular states that there is a need to look back over eight years and that this needs to be taken into account. The chief of police can also take into account other things that happened more than eight years ago, if this shows for example that someone is a recidivist or a habit criminal with a bad track record. In these cases more than eight years can be looked back. Another question was as follows. This is all possible and it is an instruction, but why is there an exception at all? This now applies, for example, to small convictions and lighter cases. It's just how you describe it, but in the circular, for example, it's called driving under the influence with a promillage that's just above the norm. I still think that is a bad thing, but in such a case, if someone hasn't made mistakes in the years after that, a permit can still be issued. This also has to do with the system. The law is traditionally based on a chief of police who decides, taking all kinds of input. That law system does not relate well to a link to very binary positions. By which I mean that you say that the Chief Constable determines, taking all this information, except in case X, Y and Z. Then the Chief Constable has nothing to decide. Then it's just... don't grant it. It's a choice to step away from it and turn it into a hybrid variant. There is no objection in principle. Only this change of law is connected to the system that was already in place. Perhaps that is a conservative legal position. If the Chamber thinks that we need to make a change on this point, I do not think that this will lead to any major problems. Something similar applies to the psychiatric admission. Why is there also a trade-off? Part of this applies to the argument I have already given, but perhaps it is a little easier to imagine here than with convictions that there has been a forced recording that was very contextual. I am thinking, for example, of a psychosis that has had a lot to do with an event in someone's life that will not be repeated so quickly. You can then say: if after a number of years a person no longer poses any danger to himself or his environment, there is no longer in itself any obstacle to granting an absolute gun licence. Well, it depends on which side you approach it. Do you see it as the exercise of a hobby, then I can imagine you say: someone can have this hobby. If you approach it entirely from the point of view that no one is actually entitled to a firearm and it is an exception that you get a permit because we have to limit risks as much as possible, then you can of course be a little tighter in that. The tighter you are in it, the more likely you are to hinder people from practicing a hobby, even if they are not directly a risk. Then the category of royalty. When a person is disbarred by a shooting association, that royalty is shared through the domes of the KNSA and the KNTS, the shooting association and the traditional shooters. The police are also informed of this, especially when it comes to a waiver with a consideration that affects security. You can also be disbarred because you have not paid your contribution. The police must also know that, because they are no longer members of an association means that you no longer have any interest and that therefore your permit will be revoked. If it's not a royalty that had to do with security, another association can still hire you as a member. In such a case, you would not have to withdraw the licence immediately. Then the question about the review period under the Law on compulsory mental health care. The proposal for the law is linked to the retention period of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. It has now been set at 15 years. There is a new proposal for that treatment agreement. That proposal for the Medical Treatment Agreement Act has been consulted. It extends the retention period for the compulsory ggz Act to 20 years. I cannot predict whether or not that law will be passed, but it is now fifteen years old and it is therefore the proposal to lift it to twenty years. The Council of State also has to advise on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	I assume that this point has now been answered by the Secretary of State, because that is my question. In the note following the report, the Secretary of State wrote in response to questions from the CDA about the retention period that a file may be destroyed after five years on request, at least in the case of a medical file of a patient who is forced to be psychiatrically recorded. I think it is important that, even after those five years, it remains clear that someone has been mentally recorded. This may be regulated by the law referred to by the Secretary of State, but I do not know exactly. At least it doesn't show up here. Can that be clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	As I know, it is aligned in this law and the file is kept and available for fifteen or twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	If the law is passed in the First Chamber, then it is still a question of whether it is going to happen. So is it known for at least fifteen or twenty years that someone has been mentally recorded and what was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yes. I come to the questions about the performances. They were asking for signals. In recent years, of course, there have been a number of incidents where a signal came in about someone who also had a license for a weapon and where you could question the sharpness of the police. These incidents have led to a tightening of awareness within the police organisation, but also of the protocols, in order to ensure that such signals also enter the Chief Constable. Then it's consultable and it's in the system. This also has to do with offences that may be an indication that one is less suited to having a permit to carry a weapon. So that's formally in the national system chief of police. This can be consulted in the case of reports of domestic violence, including by reporters and cops on the street. If an agent on the spot sees reason to fear the misuse of legally present weapons, they can be taken immediately for security purposes. They also asked what happens to false reports. You can also see them in relational problems. On the one hand, there is reason to take such a report very seriously, because that kind of problem can lead to escalations where you don't want someone to have a gun license. On the other hand, a problem in this sphere can also lead to a false accusation, which is aimed at ensuring that the other's licence is withdrawn, whereas there is actually no good basis for that. In the case of a false report, one talks with the reporter and checks whether there is actually a criminal offence in the sense of a false report. That remains a matter of weighing, because it is not the case that a licence is withdrawn only in the event of a proven offence. That could happen sooner, as I just said. It can be seen on the spot that the risk is too great. Even if a report does not lead to a proven statement and is qualified as false by the accused, there can be sufficient grounds for doubt in the Chief Constable. It may then withdraw a licence. So there's no fixed protocol for this. It is clear how to deal with a particular report, but not what conclusion it should lead to. Questions have been asked about compliance monitoring capacity. As has also been recalled by the Chamber, last year's inspection indeed called for attention to be paid to the size of the teams focusing on chief of police duties. After that, the chief of police decided to carry out a workload measurement. It is based on the formation required to perform the tasks. Of course, other factors are included, such as occupation, absenteeism and opportunities to deal with things more efficiently. It is now also a good time for this, because there is now a number of years of experience with the national police and the personal reorganisation has been completed, at least in a formal sense. So now you can say more meaningful things about it. The integrated picture for the team chief tasks is not yet known. The result will determine whether there is sufficient capacity or capacity. If this law is passed, an impact analysis will also be done after the validation and calibration of the e-screener to see if you really need additional people and resources to implement the instrument properly. If the impact analysis is there, it will also be discussed by the Chief of Staff with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	We are now discussing a law that will create an additional workload for the police. We in the Chamber have pointed out from various quarters that it is important that this law, if we adopt it, should be enforced within the specified deadlines and that this screening should be carried out properly. There is indeed a workload measurement. The results are not yet known, but the shooter's association and the police themselves are already pointing out that deadlines are not being met and that there is a shortage of capacity. So can the police do what we ask of her with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Van Nispen assumes that this law will lead to a higher workload. I can't directly endorse that. That depends very much on how successful the e-screener is in practice and how quickly it becomes successful. If this instrument is successful in overcoming the categories in which the Chief Constable finds out that he is in doubt and does not want to grant a licence, after many conversations and investment of much of his own time, this can lead to less time in it. Once the e-screener has been properly calibrated and validated, so if we all think that the instrument is working, it is almost impossible for a negative outcome to use an entire route to check things if we already know that it is going to lead to a "no." The police have reported that before. If there is tension now, we need to look at whether it is really caused by lack of capacity or by other factors. That is what the workload measurement is for, but I cannot anticipate its results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	The e-screening is part of the problem, but part of the problem was already there. That's what we've been reminded of. Certain time limits for home checks in the case of licence applications are difficult to meet. We have been warned about this by the police themselves, but so far we still do not know whether the police have sufficient capacity for this law. This did not become clear in the written round, but we do not know it now in the debate. It is not clear to me when we will get the results of the workload measurement. Nor has the Secretary of State made it clear that he will immediately achieve sufficient capacity if the workload measurement would show that there is insufficient capacity. I do think it's important to know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	It is not in my nature to make statements, because it is now easy for me to do so, which means that the chief of police is bound to something as long as I am not sure what it is. "Police" has enough capacity for this, which is quite easy, but the question is whether sufficient capacity has been invested in the team that needs to do this now. If not, is it possible to resolve this in a responsible way within the available capacity of the police? Or is there a total need for more capacity or other capacity on the part of the police? The latter is a political question which I cannot anticipate at all. In any case, I cannot anticipate this if we do not have a workload measurement, if we do not know what to add and if we do not see the effects of new measures which can ultimately relieve workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	There were already shortages in the control of legal possession of weapons. This may get worse if screening is increased. The only question we are asking today is: is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the police have sufficient capacity to do what we see here today? When will the results be known? I would like a little more clarity as to whether we can allow those teams to do what they need to do. I think that is a realistic question that we can answer today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	I actually fall back on the previous answer. First you have to look at where the bottleneck is, whether it's structural, or whether the police can solve it within the available manpower in the distribution of capacity and if not, whether there is political will to raise the overall capacity of the police. These are all matters on which I cannot make statements from this cabinet, to be honest. The necessary questions have also been asked about illegal possession of weapons and how to deal with them. That's an area of attention for the D.A. and the police. A nationwide firearms officer has been appointed and a prosecutor has been appointed at every courthouse for cases involving illegal weapons. The criminal requirements were also considerably tightened by the D.A. in 2015. The report on tackling organised undermining crime shows that 44 major investigations were carried out in 2015 in the field of weapons and explosives. Freedom sentences go up to more than five years in prison. The current priority will be reviewed in the light of the new national threat picture that will appear this spring. Then there is the question of cooperation in Europe with other European countries. We have struck a blow with the newly revised Firearms Directive. He also sees opportunities for the police to better trace illegal firearms. New opportunities have been created to extend information exchange on arms trafficking within the police to police and European police forces. At national level, the network approach to illegal firearms is active in which police and OM cooperate with customs and KMar. Within the framework of the European Action Plan, Europe is focusing in particular on the South-East European region because it is a very sensitive area, also as a source of weapons illegally circulating in other countries. It has been asked: if you want to apply for a permit in Belgium, how about that? The Member States all now have a system so that you cannot legally own a weapon. Those licences are not interchangeable. You can't say with a Belgian licence in the Netherlands: I already have a permit, I'm done. If you do everything in Belgium, so if you live there or practice sports there, a Belgian permit can be enough. Then you have to meet the requirements of Belgium. However, we do not have mutual recognition of weapons licences. I come to the questions about the exchange of information and the link between the systems. The link between the Verona system and the D.A.'s registration system needs a legal basis, which is baked in this bill. So my answer to the question "is there already" is no. I cannot now comment on how this link works either, because it still needs to be put in place if a legal basis is to be established. The link is an automated link between persons present in both systems. If that's the case, you got a hit. Then it is registered in Verona and is also immediately visible to the police. It is then reported that a person appears in that OM registry. That is updated daily and the police must then contact us in the sense of: gosh, I see a report, what is behind it, is this reason to withdraw the permit? I come to Mrs Helder's question as to whether this bill could have prevented the situation in Alphen. Or is it useful in another way, but wouldn't it have overcome that scenario? In that case, an arms leave was granted, although the person was forced into a ggz institution during the intervening period for fear of suicide. This bill improves the Chief Constable's information position on that part, because he receives a notification if someone has been forced to record. Then you have a hard signal to question the applicant's suitability and see if the permit is revoked. In this particular case, it is obvious that if the further investigation shows that someone has been forced into hospital, has actually attempted suicide and is still being treated by the ggz, you will find that the authorisation should be revoked or not granted. Mr Grothuizen asked why there was so much time between the events, the investigation report and this bill. In the meantime, let's just say that nothing happened. Immediately after the incident, the necessary measures have been taken to improve the security of legal possession of weapons. There are more personal contact moments. More information on health should be provided by an applicant. The environment and referees are questioned. Monitoring has been improved by the fact that the police receive direct reports of persons already licensed to use weapons, so that if there is reason to do so, they can be withdrawn immediately and weapons removed. At the same time, this period has been used to develop the e-screener. That method wasn't just on the shelf. An existing test used in Finland was initially examined. This was not sufficiently scientifically substantiated by our own experts in Dutch healthcare, because the test would filter out too few people with risk factors. Therefore, a scientifically sound instrument had to be developed, which took time. The developed e-screener now meets this requirement. Furthermore, there have been times when the legislative proposal for a plenary session was ready. However, every time we were able to deal with it, there were other legislative proposals which the Chamber considered more appropriate to give priority to them. I fully understand that. Now that many legislative proposals have been declared controversial, this bill has come forward and we can deal with it now. In any case, it has been in the Chamber since March 2016. I come to the question of the evaluation period. Why was it chosen for five years? That's the usual deadline for new laws. Then you can really get started in the implementation and achieve measurable results, which you can identify after a number of years of development for the evaluation. Of course, we're not blind. If something doesn't work properly, for example with the e-screener, we can adjust it or tighten it or make other improvements in the execution. You're gonna need some time for the law review. In the meantime, we're not blind. We do not say "wait but five years," if it is clear that something needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	One of the recommendations of the Research Council to the Minister of Justice I am now asking the Secretary of State was to be informed annually by the players in the field: the police and the gunmen's association. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether he is structuralally doing so, whether he collects that information annually and, if so, what would be against informing the Chamber a little earlier about his conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	That is what we will do every year. I have no objection to sharing that information, but I do not need an official review of the law, and certainly not the Chamber, to ask interim questions, to criticise and if there is any reason to change things in practice. Then there was a question of whether there should be a threshold to make a new application within one year of a rejection. In our view, the General Administrative Law Act already offers sufficient opportunities to deal with a request that has been repeated so quickly. In the case of a renewed application, the applicant must demonstrate that new facts and circumstances exist. That burden of proof lies with the applicant. The shorter a period, the less logical it is that these new facts and circumstances are there, let alone that they are decisive for another judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	But there has to be a judgment. We all know that there are all kinds of crazies doing nothing but trying to throw sand in the wheels. We could say, "In a year, you're just not gonna be ready"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yeah, so to speak, the computer could do the processing on a perimeter basis. But that's not how now the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	What I'm saying is that if you're rejected, you can't reapply for another year. Then you don't have to rule anyone out when he makes an application. He just can't apply. But then we'll have to settle that legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	I'm just thinking if there are any kinds of rejections that are more bureaucratic than content, so you could fix that with a quick new application, because otherwise you would have to wait a year after a small mistake that isn't really based on the content of the case, on risk or security. I shall have to come back to that in the second term. Because it makes sense in itself, but I want to know whether, on the one hand, we are not creating a problem in practice and, on the other hand, how great such an adjustment would be and with what consequences. So I'm not gonna embrace it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'm not saying it because I thought of it nicely, but because the police have so strongly argued for it. That is why we brought it up in the written round. At that time it was stated: it is the General Administrative Law law, it can shorten. But that does not include the fact that we have to get to work on such a case. So I just want you to arrange for you to wait a year after a rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mrs Van Toorenburg is right that, although less work, the abbreviated statement is still work. I'll check between the time limits to see if I'd like to cross over from the cabinet. Otherwise, Members of Parliament will of course be free to find ways and means of trying to convince each other. I come to the question about the involvement of the gunfighters and gunfighters. They're very important. They are the partner in ensuring that the people who do have a licence practice their sport in a responsible manner. I fully understand that they do not want to be associated in any way with people who are not fit to practice a weapon. They don't want them at their club either. They're not for that. They're not in favour of increasing risks and insecurity. For them, it is double that they naturally have an interest in the best possible screening, because then they know that a person who wants to join and has obtained a licence is safe for them too, when they practice that sport together. On the other hand, of course, the stricter the screening, the more hoops a benevolent one has to jump through in order to be able to practice his sport. I understand that they are in that tension field and they are keeping us sharp, so we are not going to be easy and legally demanding things that no longer really contribute to improving safety, but to the burden that a good sportsman has. So I understand their position. I am also pleased that they have shown great cooperation in recent years. We have the shooting dome and we have the fences that are united and that practice sports from a different tradition and with other uses. They are essential in the next phase of the development of e-screening, namely validation and calibration. That thing has to make sure that we recognise risks, but not be so adjusted that it sees a risk to everyone and turns red. We don't have many benchmarks on a new instrument, but when a lot of existing members of gun sports clubs with whom there are never any problems get red on an e-screen, that makes us think about the calibration of the screener. We really need them to improve the instrument so that we can continue to rely on it. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the difference between research into new applications and extensions. It is true that arms leave is valid for one year, after which a new leave must be applied for. In practice, we call that an extension. But that is the same balance of interests. You have less work to do, because you already have a lot of information about the holiday holder, which has already been supervised. The e-screening does not need to be repeated every year. What is possible is that the Chief Constable sees reason to oblige the applicant to re-apply the application.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	From the world of hunters, it has come to the question whether it is useful that every year a kind of control is exercised which is still the question, if you have a deed, or if it will be profound. Wouldn't it be better to opt for a slightly longer term of a few years, after which the audit is done thoroughly? Does that mean you don't have more security and less red tape?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's possible, but I think the practice is a little less black and white than this choice. In practice, an annual contact moment has added value. In the case of a non-requireable annual e-screening, the Chief Constable will, if he sees reason for doing so, sometimes have an e-screening carried out after a number of years. This gives us the assurance of an annual personal contact. There are also possibilities to re-create the e-screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	An annual contact sounds familiar. But at the same time there is obviously no new moment when you do it all a bit more deeply, as at the first time. Doesn't this system continue to pose the risk of continuing on the autopilot, rather than an additional screening once in a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	It has not been stipulated that e-screening should be repeated every few years. If there's no signal that you didn't handle your license properly, it's the annual check. You might wonder why, if nothing has changed negatively, you have to come back after a year. However, I think it is important that, even if nothing has changed, we still have that check through the personal contact. If there is a serious cause, the licence will simply be revoked. In between, the Chief Constable has the opportunity to request an e-screening. But it's not formalized that it has to be every few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	How far along are you with the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	I have two more questions to answer. Mrs Özütok asked me a question about the European Firearms Directive, which, in her view, is less stringent than she would have wanted. Do we want to fill national gaps? I share the view that it should have been stricter. We, as the Netherlands, have also bet on that. We are now mapping out the precise consequences of the directive. The Directive will further strengthen national rules, such as the new agreement on marking and information storage of firearms and owners. I think we already have the issues that we want to move beyond the directive. Therefore, I see no reason to weigh things down at national level. Nor do I see any reason to reverse things and to say that the Netherlands is stricter than the directive, let us relax certain rules. The last question was whether it makes sense to repeat the arms collection actions. I think that makes sense when it comes to tightening up legislation, so that weapons that were legal for that tightening up are at once no longer legal. That is a good time to take such action and thus raise awareness. However, the bill we are debating today does not make anything illegal that is still legal. However, it is conceivable that the transposition of the EU Firearms Directive will prohibit certain firearms or certain types or components or variants. Then I think it would be a good idea to set up another fund-raiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	I have not yet received an answer to my last question. It was about the unannounced house calls. Former Minister Opstelten wanted to arrange that if a house visit is made unannounced and entry is refused, the leave is immediately withdrawn. My proposal at that time was to come again unannounced and then withdraw the leave before entering or before entering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	I'm afraid I don't have that answer ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	Can you then come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	We now move on to that second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering most of the questions. Hopefully, in the second term, I will get an answer to my last question. I said it in the first term, and the Secretary of State also said it: Alphen aan den Rijn could possibly have been prevented by this bill. We are talking about two of the three measures contained therein. One is the coupling of the systems, which makes it clear that there has been a hospitalisation in a psychiatric hospital based on the Law special admissions in psychiatric hospitals. That's what I said. We never know for sure, but it might have been prevented. As I said, my group agrees with two of the three measures contained in the legislative proposal, but not for the time being with the reverse burden of proof that applies to the applicant and the important part of the e-screener for my group. My group has said that there are doubts about this instrument. That doubt should have been removed in the written round, but that did not happen. In this oral procedure, the Secretary of State may have made an attempt, but I have been able to distill that the Secretary of State says: we need help from the shooting and fence associations in the development of this instrument, the validation and so on. Why hasn't that already happened? I think that is a bad point, because we would then agree to a legislative proposal which would contain an instrument to be developed with the help of the shooting associations, while the KNSA has already clearly indicated where the points of criticism and pain lie. That therefore immediately means that I cannot yet reach the conclusion that I will advise my group. We agree with two of three important measures, but I think that this is a small pain that I would like to discuss first in my group. We are creating a false safety and a higher workload for the police. Yes, it is. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, almost at the end. The bill is being phased in for a reason and that is what it says literally because of the workload of the police. So I can't really come to a conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make three brief points. I have a question about practice and a comment about the amendment I have tabled. Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. I'm gonna start with the practice, because there's one thing I don't quite understand. I'm sketching a situation of domestic violence. The man beats up the woman. Neighbor's reporting it. There's a report coming in to the police. Does the police officer who records that report automatically receive the signal that the man who allegedly beat up the woman also has a gun license? I'd find that interesting to know. If so, what happens next? And if not, what should be done to ensure that that agent also knows of the presence of such a permit? I have now tabled the amendment together with Mrs Van Toorenburg. I listened to her and took out the part that looked like the BOPZ Act. I shall make a motion on that, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[establishing that it is very important that firearms and ammunition can only come into their hands and are those of whom it is established that they can deal with the far-reaching responsibility that the possession of firearms entails;]] [[Whereas compulsory psychiatric admission is a reason not to authorise a person to possess and/or use a firearm;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is important to have knowledge of whether a patient has been forced to be mentally absorbed and should therefore remain available for a very long period of time;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that if a person is required to possess and/or use a firearm under the BOPZ Act during the period authorised to possess it, this leads without delay to the withdrawal of that authorisation;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the retention period for BOPZ data can be adjusted if the mandatory mental health care bill is not accepted by the First Chamber, so that it can always be used for the application of the Arms and Ammunitions Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34432-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Chairman. I too will be relatively brief. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers to the many questions. He explained why it took about six years after the events in Alphen aan den Rijn before we discussed it today. I understand his answers. He also pointed out that the bill had been submitted in March 2016. I note, however, that this means that the preliminary phase lasted five years and the period during which the legislative proposal was before the Chamber was considerably shorter. I think it is important to note this in the direction of the Secretary of State. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for clarifying the retention periods under the new law, which replaces the BOPZ Act. In the direction of Mr Van Oosten, I note that it is a good thing that he has split up his amendment. That doesn't mean we're talking about the BOPZ anymore. I will think carefully about his motion, especially as regards the first point of decision. I am going to look at the amendment that remains and which Mrs Van Toorenburg has supported. The disadvantage of this amendment is that it is again a very broad category. See, for example, Article 140 on open violence and Article 300 on abuse. That ranges from very serious crimes to a push-and-pull party in the schoolyard, which you can still be thrown at eight years later when you apply for a gun leave. Isn't this too broad? I share Mr Van Oosten's intention that we should ensure that the system is as sharp as possible, but I do wonder whether this is being implemented a little too widely. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the question about the evaluation period. May I interpret the Secretary of State in such a way that he promises that if he evaluates this annually, he will share those results with the Chamber? If I may take it that way, I will not table the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. It has rightly been mentioned that it has taken a long time before we dealt with this law. Let it be said that we insisted on holding this debate in plenary. I might be the one who remembers that best. We have put a number of debates away in legislative submission, because we didn't really think this had a huge impact. But precisely because this is such a sensitive subject, we have said that we wanted to deal with it in plenary. That is why we are ultimately making this debate a little late. There are a few points that we need to discuss, such as the CDA's request to take a critical look at that one year. Does it have to be that if you get a rejection, you can reapply next week? Then you get a rejection and then you do it again the next day. We don't want that crazy. It is important that this is resolved. It is also about the workload of the police. We also have queulers in our society that you can cut off the pass in this way. The other discussion is still ongoing. During the debate I also had some discussions with the spokesperson on concern. There is something complicated about those five and fifteen years and how long such a file is kept. We'll have the new law later. But if this new law doesn't come through, do we have nothing? I understand that there is a motion on this, but I would really like to ask the Secretary of State: take this and, if that law is not passed, send a letter to the Chamber on how to shape it. It doesn't have to be a motion for me, but I just want the Secretary of State's guarantee that he stays alert. After all, it is irresponsible for us to end up with nothing at all with regard to people who are covered by the BOPZ and who, after five years, seem to be able to destroy their file. So I think there are still a few things that we want an answer to from the Secretary of State. As far as we are concerned, however, the law will come. Mrs Helder is quite rightly critical, but as far as we are concerned it is not just such a test. It's both the test, and the references, and the visit, and the fact that you have to take the test at the police station. This overall package could lead to us having a better picture of who we give responsibility in the Netherlands to carry weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. The SP reiterates its support for the legislative proposal that provides increased screening of gun owners. I have a brief question about the link: the system in which there is a signal when there is a forced recording, so that a gun permit can be re-assessed or withdrawn if necessary. I understand there's no legal basis yet. We'll take care of that with this bill. That's not operational yet. So we don't know exactly if it's working properly yet. But this system must have been tested; at least, I hope so. That seems obvious to me. I'd like to hear what's going on, so I'm gonna ask this question just to be safe. I still lack a clear position from the Secretary of State on whether a criminal offence in the reasonably recent past can lead to the opinion that a gun licence can be granted. Or should something like this always be withdrawn, as the amendment proposes? The same discussion plays at the forced recording. Is that amendment really necessary? I've asked questions about this myself. Is the Secretary of State in favour of customization or not? Mr Groothuizen asked a fair question about this. Does the Secretary of State trust a proper judgment? Does he therefore trust that in practice people will be able to appreciate a particular abuse or another criminal offence? Or is there really an urgent reason to tighten up and record this legally, as the amendment seeks, for example? I would like to hear the opinion of the Secretary of State, at least from the government: is this desirable or does it interfere with the customization that we may need in practice? Finally, the capacity of the police. Yes, this bill is being screened more carefully, while the police are already unable to comply with the deadlines. We have both been warned by the shooting sport and by the police about the possible increase in the workload. The Secretary of State says that the investigations have not yet been completed, but I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that legislative proposal 34432 for the purpose of legal possession of weapons proposes an increased psych screening which is largely to be carried out by the police;]] [[noting that there are concerns about the (sufficient) capacity of the police to deal with, inter alia, leave applications, extensions and home checks in a timely and adequate manner;]] [[calls on the government to identify deficits and to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to meet deadlines carefully and to carry out intensive controls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34432-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	For the record, the motion does not now call for unfocused additional capacity, even though I might like to do so and even though we know that this is necessary in the police. The thrust of the motion is to ensure that what we agree and pronounce on this bill can be achieved in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. I call Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my questions. I have heard clearly that he is genuinely in favour of a strict policy on the legal possession of weapons. On my request for further restrictions on this point, the Secretary of State was reluctant. Still, I keep asking. I can imagine that he chose this angle during the preparation of the legislative amendment, but does he still see possibilities to limit the legal possession of weapons? GroenLinks really wants to prevent legal weapons from falling into the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I would like to mention three more points. Firstly, I co-signed Mr Van Nispen's motion on police capacity. Secondly, the SGP Group is sympathetic to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. I still think it's important to say the following. If you opt for this system, you will not get the license for that weapon in eight years after the violent crime. But that should not then be interpreted as counterrio, if after that period the coast is safe. On this point, I would like to see the Secretary of State clarify or confirm that, even after that period, it is still a very important point from the past and that you still need to carry out further research. In the system of the amendment, if you simply encounter the fact that the crime of violence occurred within that period, you can already say: that is already reason by definition to refuse the permit, the leave. Thirdly, I have asked whether it is not a disadvantage that you have to go through the procedure every year, when it is the question of whether it will in practice be a little slow. I was just thinking back to my military service. Before you could drive a tank, you had to go through a 85-point book. But, yeah, you didn't do that in practice anymore. You had more to do once in a while really thoroughly check out those 85 points. Aren't we running the risk of getting a little random? I do not want to give the impression that safety is being reduced in any way at this time. None of us do. It needs to be strengthened. I would therefore like this to be a point in the evaluation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new regulations require holders of a hunting licence or other licences for one year to complete each year the increased procedure for application or renewal, including some personal visits to the police station;]] [[considers that the protection of society's security may be better served by a careful procedure every few years, while reducing the burden;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties in the context of the evaluation, to consider how to avoid increasing the burden on licence holders as far as possible, for example by extending the duration of a hunting licence or other authorisation for a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34432-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the Secretary of State can examine the last motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. I will start with the answer that Mrs Helder owed to her question about house visits. A law is not being worked on at the moment, because I believe that the practice already meets her wishes. After the third non-entry period the leave is withdrawn. This is a standing practice, which is also settled in case law. So that's what we do. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the renewed requests. The General Administrative Law does not relate to the prohibition of an application. An application comes in and you have to do something with it. In my view, the shortened handling under the General Administrative Law Act is really sufficient. Repeated bullshit applications can be rejected very quickly per round, but you can't say: you can't apply. I come to the questions about the e-screener's validation. The e-screener has been delivered and is now being calibrated. The e-screener is further validated by another party. This is now the subject of the tender procedure. We will also have to keep an eye on the further development of this new instrument. That is why we want to involve not only the specialised party that now has to look at it as a second pair of eyes, but also the industry organisations in checking the operation in practice and the e-screener's institutions. Mrs Van Toorenburg would like the undertaking that if the law does not come into force and the deadlines are not stretched, I will send a letter to the Chamber about how we are going to deal with this. I think that's a sensible line, so I'll give you that. Ms Özütok asked about further restricting the possession of legal weapons. The weapons and ammunition law does not aim to limit the legal possession of weapons. Then it could be much simpler. That law should not be there and we should simply have a ban on the possession of such weapons. So we create an exception for the practice of sports. This is subject to strict scrutiny; there must be a reasonable interest in obtaining a permit. What we are discussing today is a further tightening up that will enable us to make a distinction: when and when? However, there is a choice. To the question, sec, if I see possibilities to limit it even further, the answer is yes. The simplest thing would be to say: except for police, defence and a number of other exceptions, no citizen should have a weapon. That's not the choice we make. We want to make it possible, under good conditions and with strict guarantees, for example, for people to practice shooting. I now turn to the motions and the amendments. Mr Van Nispen asked for my personal opinion on the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg. That is a bit complex, because I now have an opinion on behalf of the cabinet, but next week I will probably have to vote on it and then I will be back in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament. The BOPZ is now, in my view, really out of the amendment, to say it binary. That's where the weighing stays. Of the two "BOPZ" and "crimes" I could imagine most in terms of customization. I can really imagine cases where you say that there has been something in the past, but objectively, with all the experts and guarantees, this person does not pose a greater threat than anyone else, so if he wants to participate in a shooting sport now he must be able to do so safely. If you make it too binary, you run the risk that there are cases where you can no longer justify the difference. You can then explain why you say no.Something has happened in the past.But at the time of judgment you can no longer say what the difference is for security reasons, which gives one a permit and the other one doesn't. With the amendment before us, I find the difference less difficult, because this is already the intention. I can't imagine a case in which the Chief Constable would make an exception in the event of such a crime. In addition, everything breathes the policy we already have: in a phenomenon such as the amendment, you simply do not grant a permit. Traditionally, it had a more legal reason for not writing it down. The Chief Constable will assess it and take it all with him. Everything pointed out that you wouldn't make that exception after all. Therefore, I have no objections in principle to the adjustment of the system in the sense that the Chief Constable decides and that you take that into account in the arguments, except in these cases, because then he actually has nothing to decide and it is automatically a matter of not granting. I leave it to the Court to decide whether it wants it to be recorded in the law. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 10 by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij on the identification of deficits. I myself make 'possible' deficits of that, but I will not be so faint as to take that one word out of the motion. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I think it would be wise for the Chamber to be aware of the extent to which these tasks can be met by the current occupation. In his motion for a resolution, Mr Van Oosten asks for item No. 9 to consider whether, if the Law on compulsory mental health care is not accepted by the First Chamber, the retention period for BOPZ data can be adjusted. That gives a little more coloration to the commitment I just made. I will leave it to the Court to decide whether it wants to give the colour. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's motion on item No. 11. I think it would be wise to include that in the evaluation. I shall also leave that motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	I may have missed it, but I asked the Secretary of State in the second term if I could see his comment on the evaluation as a commitment. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'll repeat it. What I wanted to say and said is that we share that information and those figures with the Chamber. Mr Grothuizen is now making an annual evaluation of it. I want to avoid a misunderstanding. We do the legal evaluation after five years, but the information and progress we can report to the Chamber every year. This will undoubtedly be discussed in an AO. If the cabinet sees no reason to do anything in the figures, but the Chamber does, it can be discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	That's clear. This means that I will not table the amendment I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	At the risk of me fainting on a motion, I still have a question. The Van Nispen/Van der Staaij motion gets judgment Chamber. It literally states "calls on the government to identify deficits and ensure that there is sufficient capacity." Of course, we have had endless discussions with this cabinet about this, which indicates that there are no deficits. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that there are deficits and that he's going to map them? Will he also ensure that there are sufficient resources? That's what he says when he gives judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	That is why I said myself: possible deficits. I then referred to the fact that I think it would be useful to inform the Chamber of the extent to which one is able to fulfil the tasks of the present occupation. If the conclusion of that workload measurement is that one can handle it, that will be the information coming to the Chamber. Then there are no deficits, but you have mapped out what you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	So we'll get a letter investigating this? Is there a letter coming to the Chamber to see what we should do? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	It concerns the outcome of the workload measurement. If that workload measurement shows that there is a need for more and that there are deficits, then that is the conclusion and we need to do something with it. If it comes out that there are no deficits, that's the conclusion and so does the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	Just as sharp: there will be a separate workload measurement on the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	No. It's about the workload measurement that's taking place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	I have just had a meeting with the first petitioner, Mr Van Nispen. We agree with the Secretary of State's reading on possible deficits. That is not the point we wanted to make with this motion. So thank you for that explanation. I asked another question about the amendment tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. I would like confirmation that this should not be explained in such a way that the coast is clear after eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	No, I certainly wouldn't want that. Now the practice is that it is theoretically possible within eight years. But all the directives are on: don't. Apart from when something has happened, the general policy line is: do not do so if there is little doubt. If that doubt arises from or is strongly supported by something that was going on nine years ago, it is still a reason not to grant a licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	We will vote on the legislative proposal, the amendment tabled and the motions next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State.
