ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Kuik, and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. This bill not only rages on all sides, but also strengthens the dominant position of a network of NGOs and trade unions, which has been subject to the subsidy trick for decades. The plight of the PvdA knows no limits and it does not hesitate to roll out the old socialist ideas of division of labour and capital over the back of children. Or are there several initiators in the game? I'd like a response from the initiator and the minister. For the record, the PVV is against child labour. A child must have the opportunity to develop through education and play and to earn a little extra money from a certain age with a small job. For which one of us hasn't even delivered newspapers in his early years, filled courses or helped a family business? In the Netherlands, all children have the chance to grow up in this way. This is not only due to Van Houten's Children's Act, but also because of compulsory education. However, this is not always self-evident. Income from child labour is much needed in several countries. Now we must not think that child labour occurs only in third world countries. Child labour also occurs within the European Union. Apparently, there is no means of eliminating child labour within the borders of the European welfare state. How can this be done beyond the borders of the European Union? However, the initiator wants to ban products and services involving child labour by forcing companies to control the entire production chain for child labour. The difficulty is that there are complex production chains abroad. For the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is currently too complicated to investigate cases abroad, due inter alia to a lack of capacity. But it seems that entrepreneurs have this capacity and can be entrusted with the search for the entire production chain. That's an unstoppable thing. A company can never guarantee that there is no child labour hidden anywhere in the production chain. The initiator is aware of this and therefore asks the companies to make a statement of due diligence, in plain Dutch due diligence. That's a stretchy concept that's not unambiguous. This is going to lead to arbitrariness. This statement is also now form-free. Crucial clarification will be established at a later stage through a general measure of governance, as will the appointment of a supervisor and the possible exemption of certain categories of undertakings. For small businesses, includingzzp'ers, an exemption can be a blessing. The initiator has indicated that he can live with the exemption of companies with small turnover which hardly have an international dimension in their chain. However, this distinction is contrary to the OECD guidelines. In addition, these small companies often do not have such sounding names as the big ones. As a result, they are less attractive to be properly nailed. Mr. Chairman. It is also not clear which organisation will become the supervisor. The ACM doesn't want to burn their hands on it. A supervisor can only function well with a clear framework and an area of responsibility in this case. These conditions are not being met. The ACM indicates that it is more for an inspection service. Apparently, they are able to cope with an unclear framework and no foreign powers. But that too cannot impose a fine and prison sentence on companies that do not have an establishment in the Netherlands, as opposed to the Dutch companies that can. This puts Dutch companies at a disadvantage. Does the Minister already have a supervisor or an inspection service in mind? If so, which one? Mr. Chairman. Anyone and any organisation can file a complaint against a company based in the Netherlands that appears or appears to have child labour somewhere in the production chain. If a complaint is lodged, the company must demonstrate due diligence. This is because there is a reverse burden of proof. If the complaints are justified, a company or person may be fined. If two fines are imposed within five years, prison sentences may be imposed. Here's where it's limping. Criminal prosecutions following an earlier received administrative fine for the same fact are not possible. Mr President, I can predict that if this bill is adopted, the complaints will flow through the subsidised organizations. They have been active in the regions concerned for decades, and they do not hesitate to put pressure on companies and individuals to roll out their own agendas. Already institutions, under the guise of social enterprise, are being put under pressure. Let me give you an example. Pro-Palestinian organizations, fed by the network, use CSR as part of a boycott. On behalf of Cordaid, ICCO and PAX, a list of Dutch companies operating directly or indirectly through a subsidiary in the settlements in the territories claimed by Palestinians was made. Citizens were then encouraged to take action against pension funds, banks and supermarkets. However, you never hear PAX about the abuse of Palestinian children, which are used as a living shield, stone thrower or live bomb, for example. That's not exactly in line with the rights of the child. PAX appears to be selectively concerned with the well-being of children. Mr. Chairman. The government's exploration shows that there is insufficient support in Europe for tackling child labour. Member States point to the concerns about feasibility and effectiveness. The Council of State has its doubts about this too. After the collapse of the textile factory Rana Plaza in Bangladesh, the European Parliament felt obliged to speak out for better enforcement by means of a resolution. It is remarkable that Dutch NGOs have been active in Bangladesh for many years, especially among the workers in those factories. For years they have been on top of it and must have known what the working conditions were like. Despite the many millions of grants, they have not been able to prevent the disaster. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned it: the Dutch business community is placed in an uneven playing field. This is condoned by suggesting that the Netherlands can play a leading role. This is reminiscent of the human rights agreement, concluded with the Dutch Association of Banks and the PvdA ministers Dijsselbloem and Ploumen and the trade unions FNV and CNV. Following the conclusion of the covenant, PAX announced triumphantly, through director Jan Gruiters, that Amnesty, PAX and Oxfam Novib will support the banks in their choice of location through timely identification of human rights risks and concrete violations. An independent committee will monitor the implementation of these agreements. "This approach can serve as an example for other EU Member States and OECD countries. This will be actively promoted internationally by all parties and affiliated banks," says Jan Gruiters. In this way, these organisations are pulling the management door open and getting a finger in the mouth with regard to establishment policy. It's not about human rights at all. Human rights are just a vehicle to gain influence. This bill opens the door wide to such practices but with the child labour vehicle. To clarify: Amnesty, PAX and Oxfam Novib are up to their necks in the subsidised net. I'm rounding up. This bill is not enforceable, leads to arbitrariness and leads to higher administrative costs. This bill does not solve the problem of child labour. To really solve the problem, we need to look at the real causes of child labour. Often this is a combination of poverty and culture that in turn carry corrupt regimes. It is precisely those corrupt regimes that rob the children of their future and not the Dutch companies that, because of their activities, can contribute to the development of the country in question. But gripping regimes don't allow their subjects a decent life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	I understand that Mrs Faber is not in favour of this bill for a number of reasons. I have heard her say that the PVV is against child labour, that children should be able to play and that they should be able to go to school. Can Mrs Faber tell me how, according to the PVV, the Dutch government can work on combating child labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	I mentioned earlier that we had the child law of Van Houten in the Netherlands. This has not only contributed to the elimination of child labour, but has also contributed to the introduction of compulsory education. If the countries where child labour occurs start introducing compulsory schooling, we are already coming a long way. There are countries such as India that do have legislation on child labour. Children are not allowed to work in certain sectors of India. However, it is happening. In the sectors where they are allowed to work, they are allowed to work for a maximum period of time, which I admit is too long, six hours a day including 45 minutes break. In those countries, children are sold and put in factories to work 12 to 16 hours a day. What I want to say is that India needs to be maintained. There's already some regulation. I assume Mrs Vlietstra thinks that this is not enough and I agree with her. However, we agree that children should be able to develop, play and go to school. The problem lies with these countries and not with the Dutch business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I would like to draw Mrs Faber's attention to the OECD directives which have also been accepted by the Dutch Government. Governments, but also companies, are expected to take measures to combat child labour. I hear Mrs Faber saying that the responsibility lies only in the countries themselves. I am curious how Mrs Faber thinks that a country such as the Netherlands can comply with these OECD directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	It is true that there are OECD directives, but this bill does not amend those directives. They're already there, but those countries aren't sticking to it. The only thing this bill does is force Dutch companies to do so, while the Netherlands is already in fact bound by the OECD guidelines. The Dutch companies do not put these children to work. It is the other countries that are doing this. What I am saying is that this legislative proposal does not bring new legislation on the OECD, but rather puts pressure on our companies to implement these directives, while the problem is more abroad. In addition, only 5% of child labour is used for products exported. That's just a very small part. If this bill were to succeed, our Dutch companies would be put at a disadvantage. Another European country that does not have legislation on this duty of care can continue to import those products and simply sell them on the Internet. That just doesn't work. You always have to solve the problem at the source. This is just symptom control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mrs Vlietstra on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	I understand that Mrs Faber says that there is no responsibility for us to contribute to the elimination or reduction of child labour in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	This is another remark that is intended to put a guilty monkey on our shoulders. Oh, we do it all the time. But that's just not how it works. The problem lies abroad. I mentioned the example of India. Those countries have to solve it. We can't take the whole world on our necks. We're doing everything we can. I think a lot of Dutch companies are doing their best to do as best they can. I am convinced that they have the right intentions. However, the other parties also have a responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I'm gonna go back in my line, or it won't be right anymore. It is precisely those corrupt regimes that rob children of their future and not the Dutch companies that, because of their activities, can contribute to the development of the country in question. The raging regimes do not allow their subjects a decent life. The organisations involved in the field are already slurping at the subsidy infusion their arrows rather on the Dutch business community. The consequences of this failure cannot be placed on the board of Dutch companies. The PVV Group will therefore vote against the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Welcome to Mrs Kuik, as well as to the Minister. The SP Group, also speaking on behalf of the Party for Animals, is grateful to the petitioner, Mr Van Laar, for the persistence in the preparation of the bill and for the successful defense in the House of Representatives. We are of course also grateful to Mrs Kuiken for her efforts, and we thank her and former Minister Ploumen for the comprehensive answer to the written questions. We are talking today about an important issue: child labour, or rather, the way in which Dutch companies implement their duty of care with regard to combating child labour in their production chain. The ultimate goal of the law is endorsed by virtually everyone. However, it comes down to action. And it's still missing. From a very recent review one month ago, the Economist Intelligence Unit, with the significant title No more excuses, we learn that, although 80% of the companies under investigation believe that it meets all the requirements of responsibility, only 22% pay attention to child labour in their production chain. In mining, that percentage is even lower. No wonder impatience is growing with the extremely slow progress on voluntary but non-binding compliance with IMVO agreements and OECD guidelines. The current law aims to establish a legal basis which, according to the quoted study, is very much needed, and for that reason my group will support the Chicken Act. However, this support does not mean that we are overflowing with enthusiasm for the present law. My group has some serious questions and hopes to get convincing answers to them in this debate. First of all, I want to talk about the purpose of the law. The purpose of this law is not, as is often suggested in publicity, to combat child labour. This law requires companies that place goods and services on the Dutch market to make efforts to ensure that these goods and services are not produced with child labour. Successful implementation of the law prevents child labour products from being marketed in the Netherlands and contributes, at most indirectly and indirectly, to reducing child labour. The law aims to protect the Dutch consumer, not directly at the establishment of the production chain. I would be grateful if the author could explain again why, according to some people, this is a detour. Given this approach, it is essential that the law is assessed in conjunction with other policies of the Dutch government, other governments and international bodies that actively intervene on the prevention of child labour itself, wherever in the world. There are the many famous IMVO agreements. Internationally, there are all these directives, agreements, conventions and so on aimed at eliminating child labour, which have almost without exception been embraced and endorsed by the Netherlands. These are conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and of the Council of Europe, the sustainable development goals of the United Nations which oblige our country to combat child labour around the world, not to forget the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the Children's Rights Convention. In this sense, this law, and of course the author is right, does not create any new substantial obligations for Dutch companies. They are already supposed to comply with these directives. Problem is, they don't. We ask the author to briefly and forcefully state on what facts and assumptions the present law can be described as complementary to the international instruments and not as some suggest, for example, VNO as contrary to them and undermining the effectiveness of the international agreements. Another question concerns the scope of this law. Many commentators have raised the question why the law only covers child labour and not forced labour and slavery. In these cases, too, "employment" in the international production chain is prohibited by a series of international instruments, often the same or related instruments. Would the applicant like to explain again what reasons led to the chosen restriction? And I would like to ask the Minister whether the extension of the law to forced labour could in any case come into sight if the envisaged assessment is positive after five years. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The hearing also revealed that there were still many concerns about the method chosen, particularly as regards the feasibility and enforcement of the scheme. I'm passing the laws of procedure here. I would like to hear from the author whether I have understood the successive steps correctly. The law requires all suppliers of services and products on the Dutch market to deposit a due diligence statement, a statement of due diligence, with a supervisor to be appointed. Companies that see risks in their production chain must conduct research and submit a plan of action and cannot therefore be satisfied with a simple explanation. A question that needs clarification as far as we are concerned: is it indeed true that for most cases a simple one-line statement is sufficient in the first instance and that companies do not need to report standard on possible child labour in their chain? Please clarify the initiator. Consumers who have evidence that products have been produced using child labour have a right to complain. They may, as a last resort, lodge a substantiated complaint with the supervisor. The supervisor may initially provide an indication on the basis of which the undertaking must justify its due diligence. To this end, it should carry out an investigation and report on it, plus a plan of action if there is evidence that there is indeed a risk of child labour being used in the production chain. If the company fails to carry out the investigation to the satisfaction of the supervisor and to draw up a plan of action, an administrative fine may be imposed. In the event of repeated defaults, criminal proceedings are followed. The SP Group also needs clarification on Article 5 of the Act. By amendment, the House of Representatives added a phrase to Article 5 (1) which states that an undertaking which only purchases goods and services from undertakings which have deposited a declaration in accordance with Article 4.1 is to exercise due diligence and does not have to deposit a statement itself. Is it really true that a simple one-line statement by a foreign supplier indemnifies the Dutch company, even if it concerns a supplier from a non-EU country, non-EEA country, a non-Council of Europe country or a non-OECD country? How can such a supplier be effectively brought under the rule of law? What means does the regulator have to conduct investigations and enforce the law? An imaginary case makes the question a little more concrete. If a jewellery manufacturer in the Netherlands takes his gold from a gold supplier in Brazil, South Africa or the Democratic Republic of Congo, and that supplier submits a one-line statement in accordance with the law, does the Dutch manufacturer have any further obligations under this law? And in the event of a complaint, how is the supervisor going to discharge its obligations to the Congolese company concerned? Article 1 (d) of the Act provides that the supervisor shall be appointed to AMvB. The position and role of the supervisor are absolutely essential in the design of this law. The documents show that the applicant initially considered that the Authority for Consumer and Market (ACM) would be the designated supervisor, although this was not ultimately laid down in the legislative proposal. The hearing held in this Chamber has since made it clear that the ACM itself considers that it does not have the necessary expertise. The SP Group considers this ambiguity about what is a crucial element in the construction of the law to be difficult to digest. We appreciate a firm explanation by the author. On other important points, too, the law refers for further elaboration to AMvB debt securities to be issued. In the case of AMvB, exceptions may be granted before the submission of the said declaration. At AMvB, further requirements are laid down for the research and the plan of approach. In fact, nothing has been said about this in the law. Finally, Article 6 of the AMvB exempts categories of undertakings. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group would like to be confirmed by the petitioner and minister that these AMvBs are offered for prior approval by the States General. We are also looking forward to an explanation by the Minister of these provisions. What ideas does the Minister have at the moment about the organisation of this AMvB? Is cooperation in an imvo-convenant, for example, a sufficient form of "appropriate care"? Will the AMvB allow companies within a specific industry to collectively meet the requirements of the law? Can the Minister also indicate how it will deal with the lobbying practices to which these procedures will undoubtedly invite? Finally, Mr President, the SP Group has some questions about the latest article of the law. The law, Article 12 (1), does not enter into force by Royal Decree until 1 January 2020. Does this mean, strictly speaking, that the government can also decide not to bring the law into force at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	I heard 'finally', Madam President, so I am going to ask my question. I hear Mr Overbeek of the SP say from the outset: we are going to vote in favour of this initiative law. But then I hear incredibly many questions about execution, supervision and enforcement. Perhaps at the end of his speech, Mr Overbeek could briefly explain why the SP is going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	Sure, I'll try to do that. If that does not happen, please remind me, for example through the President, of Mrs Stienen. Second. Article 12 (2) provides that the law shall lapse by Royal Decree after the evaluation has been sent. That brings me to the following two questions. Does this mean that the Minister himself evaluates the functioning of the law without the involvement of independent parties? Is the Minister free to waive the law without the intervention of the States General? Is there not a need for a repeal law? Did I get that correctly? Third. Do we interpret the law correctly when we conclude that the two Royal Decrees are adopted without the interference of the States-General, or possibly not adopted, as in the first case? Can the applicant explain the rationale for this article? And would the Minister like to clarify her view on this? Finally, this law does indeed have many shortcomings. Nevertheless, that is what Mrs Stienen has heard well. Our groups will vote in favour of this law on the grounds of urgency and observation that companies will only take effective action if there is a legal sanction over their heads. We have seen this all too often in the past: companies only start talking about the need for self-regulation when there is a threat of regulation. All these years before, companies have been stalled and far too little effort has been made to tackle child labour in their production chain. I see Mrs Stienen is not yet satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you for your answer. I assume that the initiativer and the Minister will give very comprehensive answers to all our questions. But what if that's disappointing, or if they don't answer all your questions in full, don't you think you're getting ahead of yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	Yes, but I think it is important to clarify the position that we are taking in the end. We support the objectives of this bill. And yes, there are objections to it, but they are largely soluble by properly filling in the AMvBs and involving Parliament. I am confident that this Chamber will come to a sensible decision in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	I would like to hear from my colleague how he comes to know that the responsibility lies with the companies and not with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	I didn't say the second one. I'll tell you the first thing. Dutch companies, like other companies from Western countries, have an independent obligation to do everything possible to eliminate child labour in their products. This is completely unrelated to the fact that governments of countries where this production takes place have a responsibility to take action against child labour. But one responsibility cannot be removed from the other, I say to Mrs Faber through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	I'm glad you're doing that through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	I am glad that the SP colleague at least indicates that the countries concerned also have a responsibility. But is it not an idea to ask the government at government level to try to persuade these countries, for example, to introduce compulsory education and enforce their own legislation? Surely that is simpler than putting the whole Dutch business on the table with an untenable cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	Two points. On the one hand, Mrs Faber is trying to draw a line here against the responsibility of the other. I can't go along with that. Both Dutch companies and governments cross the world have obligations under existing international legal instruments. They also impose on the Dutch government the obligation to do everything possible, including within the Dutch jurisdiction, to contribute to the eradication of child labour. That is the answer to the second part of Mrs Faber's question. The Dutch Government has an international legal obligation to take steps. This seems to us, given the final wording of the law, to be an extremely modest step in that direction, but a step in the right direction. Again, that is why we will ultimately support this law, in the confidence that this Chamber will make the law as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	This law, if it comes through, applies only to Dutch companies... No?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	Listen, there is a debate going on here between Mr Overbeek, Mrs Faber, the author of the bill and the Minister. All kinds of screaming from the sidelines isn't gonna play, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I should not have responded to Mrs Lokin, and I apologize for that. Then I'll come back to Mr. Agreement. I still think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	Overflow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	Sorry, excuse me. I still think that the Dutch business community is being put at a disadvantage. Are we not putting our own business on an uneven playing field? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mrs Faber's question reminds me of the input of the PVV during the debate in the House of Representatives on this bill. Maybe I can answer the question with another question. We have heard from Mrs Faber here this morning an extensive tirade against the millions of subsidised circuit of NGOs that are conspiring everywhere to hollow out Dutch business. Mrs Faber has also skilfully avoided the question of what would be necessary in the eyes of the PVV to eliminate child labour, which the PVV opposes, and what the Netherlands should do about it. Maybe that's a question to Mrs Faber: can she confirm it or else fill it out? In the end, it is all a consumer's business. A sacred confidence in consumer sovereignty: if the consumer does not want child labour in his products, he is empowered enough to keep an eye on it and buy something else. It should be noted that the consumer does not have the necessary information to know whether or not products have been produced with child labour, the spokesperson of the PVV in the Lower House referred with a great gesture to all those millions of fed NGOs who were able to inform consumers about what was wrong with products produced with child labour. It is one of two: whether NGOs play a useful role in informing consumers, or whether they are perverted job machines by millions of subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mrs Faber, you may give a very, very, very brief response, but I would like to end your discussion with Mr Overbeek. Mrs Lokin also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the last thing: it's a well-fed network. In fact, you are already losing the network by saying: apparently they are not able to provide sufficient information so that the consumer is able to decide whether or not to buy an article. What I find striking is this. That is my final point, Mr President, and I will stop. You note that I am saying something about the network, about the NGOs, the unions and what's in it. When I was standing behind the speaker chair, you stayed seated. Then you should have asked that question, then you should have interfered with me. Then I could have given you a clear answer. Now I have to stop from Madam President. I would like to explain everything about this bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	You have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	I'd like to take that last invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Madam President, I am sorry that I made a cry from the sidelines. But I just wanted to say that this bill applies to all companies that market products or services in the Netherlands. This includes foreign companies. Furthermore, if I may, I have a question for the speaker. We are talking here, for example, about exemptions. That is the only AMvB to be placed before both Chambers of the States-General. It says again, like sting in the tail, that this can be done by or under AMvB. So the AMvB is placed in the Second and First Chambers, but then the AV can delegate the exemptions again, for example to a minister or anyone: a supervisor, an NGO, the PVV. As a result, the States-General no longer has a say in it. Now I have to ask you a question. Did you notice that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	The question is clear in itself, the implicit question. Thank you for the further initiation into the deeper secrets of administrative law. For myself, that means asking the Minister a little more explicitly how she intends to deal with the task entrusted to her to formulate and complete these AMvBs. That seems to me to be the only sensible thing I can say about this at the moment. But thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	Through the chairman, of course, yes. I see I have 50 seconds left, but I don't have to fill it. I had come to the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Overbeek. Then I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	Madam President. First of all, a warm welcome to Mrs Kuik, the initiator, and to Mrs Kaag, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I am not sure whether Mr Van Laar is looking at this, but I would like to congratulate him and his colleagues on behalf of the D66 Group on the fact that this legislative initiative brought it to the First Chamber. In many streets in the Netherlands these days there are party lights. December is the month in which many shopkeepers run an important part of their annual turnover. During the preparation of this input I had these shopkeepers and their customers in mind. Because what does the initiative law on child labour care mean for these entrepreneurs and their customers? Would they already consider whether the products in the windows were made by children's hands somewhere far away abroad? Would they consider whether the cocoa in the chocolates at the bakery, the gold at the jeweller and the phones at the electronics store were made in an honest way? Without child labour? Without forced labour, and in decent working conditions and for a living wage? The initiative law on child labour care focuses on one aspect of these questions: child labour. The purpose of this proposal, according to the explanatory memorandum, is to ensure that consumers can assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies that are reasonably willing to do everything possible to prevent their products and services from being produced using child labour. In short, this bill requires companies to declare that they are doing so and if, following a complaint, that statement turns out to be incorrect, a company can be fined and then prosecuted. Today we are discussing whether this bill is the right means to bring about the change that we all want in this Chamber: to put an end to child labour. The D66 Group supports the idea that our prosperity should not be at the expense of human rights, prosperity and welfare elsewhere. That is why my group attaches importance to the fact that the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are at the heart of the coalition agreement under the heading 'development cooperation'. Sustainable Development Goal 8, "decent jobs and economic growth," explicitly mentions child labour in one of the sub-targets, 8.8. I quote: "To take immediate and effective measures to eliminate forced labour, to end modern slavery and to secure the prohibition and abolition of the worst forms of child labour, including child soldiers, and to put an end to child labour in all its forms by 2025." Madam President. It is an ambitious goal. Imagine that by 2025 children could play, go to school and have a safe and healthy environment. Everyone in this house, including my group, would like to see an end to the phenomenon of over 160 million children working worldwide. We are talking about work by too young children, work that is too heavy or dangerous for children or work that hinders children in education. Of course, the question is whether the good intentions of proposals such as the present initiative law actually lead to a reduction in child labour. Nobody is waiting for legislation that is full of good intentions, but which in practice leads to a great deal of uncertainty and does not produce any results. For example, the Council of State expressed concerns about the effectiveness of this bill. According to the D66 Group, combating child labour is not served by legislation that is not enforceable or whose monitoring and enforcement raises many questions. The task of the First Chamber is precisely to review legislation on this issue. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions remain with my group. I'll list them, and then I'll explain them. Does the law provide for clarity and legal certainty for companies as to what they should do to comply with the law? On what specific grounds can a complaint be lodged? What about the financial and administrative burden on companies? How are supervision and enforcement regulated? And finally, what is the relationship between this initiative proposal and the agreements for international corporate social responsibility, hereafter the IMVO agreements? Mr. Chairman. My group is concerned about the fact that a number of important issues are not regulated by law, but must be worked out by the Minister in due course through one or more AMvBs. This concerns the role and mandate of the supervisor in Article 3, the exceptions to the timing and content of the statement to be issued by companies in Article 4.3, and the question of which companies can be exempted under Article 6. We would like to hear from the initiator how she looks in general terms at the concerns of the D66 Group that there is a great deal to be done in general management measures. The steps that entrepreneurs need to take to demonstrate child labour in their chain are in line with the OECD guidelines and are further developed in the AMvB. Can the initiator give some examples of these steps? Is the Minister prepared to involve industry in the preparation of the AMvBs by means of consultations? Dutch companies and companies selling or supplying goods or services to Dutch end-users should, according to this initiative proposal, declare that they have acted with due care. Goods or services should not be produced using child labour. Tony's Chocolonely, together with a number of other companies, wrote in a recent letter: "This law requires nothing impossible from companies. Companies have to declare that they are doing what is necessary to prevent child labour, to investigate the risks of child labour and to address them in terms of their ability. Only with a law does the norm go up and child labour is seriously dealt with." Does the initiator agree to this position? And, if so, would the initiator please explain what she thinks is "needed"? And when have companies dealt with child labour "to the best of their ability"? In the further reply, the initiator states that the duty of care for a small company will not go much further than the first link. After all, the entrepreneur only needs to check with a few suppliers whether child labour is being used in their chains. In the same reply, the initiator states that an exception can be made for small businesses with several hundred thousand euros turnover per year, and for companies with hardly any international dimension in their chain. But does it work the other way around? Should large companies then make greater efforts by imposing higher demands on how far back in the chain should be sought? I'd like a response from the initiator. My group wonders whether there are not so many exceptions to be expected now, that it remains unclear for many companies whether and how they are covered by this law. Is it perhaps possible to set up a phaser that does not require the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, in the first phase? We would like to hear the reaction of the initiator and also the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	I hear Mr Stienen talking about making a difference between large and small companies, where small companies may not have to participate. But you can't do that because of the OECD guidelines, can you? Surely we cannot distinguish between larger and smaller companies? How do you see that? How do you intend to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	I am also very curious to see how the initiator responds to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	Okay. So you are asking a question to the Minister or the initiator, but that question is not in line with the OECD guidelines? We have correctly complied with these OECD directives. Well, that's a strange question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	I am always very happy when the PVV commits itself to international guidelines on international cooperation; first of all. Secondly, I am indeed curious how the initiator explains this dilemma to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	I would like to respond to that point on international directives. We are, of course, the only opposition party, but we do comply with the laws and regulations. I would like to emphasise that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	Of course, as an internationally oriented party, we are very pleased with this. In other words, what does this mean for the entrepreneurs in the average shopping street in the Netherlands, or for an online web shop? Should the large-scale retailer hand over that statement of due diligence, but can the baker and the jeweller refrain from doing so? Or can the baker do that because the turnover is low enough, but the jeweler isn't because he sells gold? Does this law require more entrepreneurs working in sectors where there is a higher risk that products have been produced by child labour? Madam President. What does this mean for entrepreneurs in border regions, who often feel the competition of entrepreneurs right across the border? What about Belgian and German legislation on combating child labour in this context? My group would like to hear the initiativer's response to these questions. We would also like to hear from the initiator and the minister how they estimate that legislation in general and this law in particular can contribute to a level playing field for companies within the Netherlands and Europe. In addition, my group welcomes the attention given in the explanatory memorandum to accompanying policy in this legislation. Combating child labour will have an impact on families and communities that first lean on child labour for income. Does the initiator see a role for large companies, NGOs and/or the Dutch government here? My group would also like to hear from the Minister how the new cabinet will pay more attention to the consequences of combating child labour at community and family level. The D66 Group also has some questions about the financial impact this law may have on companies. In response to earlier questions from the D66 Group on the cost of achieving the declaration for companies, the initiator states that funding is available for companies, for example through the Child Labour Fund. But is this fund meant for this purpose? It is a good thing that the new cabinet has included in the government agreement that this fund should be increased by 7 million a year. My group asks the Minister what place this fund can take if this Chamber agrees to this initiative law. Does the Minister expect more companies to claim this fund if this law enters into force? The initiator states that the cost to a company already complying with the OECD guidelines will be €98 to €787 per year. This is based on the costs for entrepreneurs in the Modern Slavery Act of the United Kingdom, a law aimed at preventing the sale of products in the UK that have been produced by forced labour. The costs for Dutch entrepreneurs could be "much lower' "because the explanation in the present law may be regular'. Where does the initiator base this, since the requirements of the declaration still have to be laid down in an AMvB? According to the initiator, does this mean that less research is needed for Dutch entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. My group still finds it difficult to see how consumers can play a role in the success of this initiative law. Any natural or legal person whose interests have been affected by the conduct or omission of an undertaking in compliance with this law may lodge a complaint with the supervisor if there is a concrete indication that an identifiable party has not complied with the appropriate due diligence obligation. Let's go back to that Dutch shopping street. Who, according to the initiator, should take action with this law in hand? The jeweler's client who suspects there's no fair gold in the window? Or the client of the clothing store? Alone, or with other customers in an action group, through a consumer organisation or with an NGO? And can the initiator give an example of what she sees as a concrete indication for the consumer? This law can only serve its purpose if there is effective supervision. The initiative legislative proposal provides for a regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with the law. This will be a difficult task, because the supervisor has to meet many requirements. This regulator will need to understand the complexity of chains using different raw materials to produce a product. There must be expertise to monitor internationally effectively and to deal with offenders of this law both administratively and criminally, which also requires more effective cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, there are questions about how far the supervisory authority's powers extend both within and outside the Netherlands and, in particular, with regard to online companies that are not based in the Netherlands. My group would like to hear a reaction from the initiator. The supervisor shall be appointed per AMvB. We understand from this that the AMvB further regulates which, whether new or not, organisation will perform the supervisory function and that the AMvB will be put forward. I am actually curious whether this happens only in the Lower House or also in the Upper Chamber. It is not yet clear which organisation could and would like to perform this supervisory function. My group asks the initiator who she sees as a potential supervisor and whether she sees anything in the option of creating a new independent administrative body to take on the supervisory role. Does the initiator think that a new regulator could be launched before 1 January 2020 if this initiative law were to enter into force at the earliest? What budget should the supervisor need to carry out the tasks effectively, my group asks the initiator to do so. Is it clear from countries that have introduced similar legislation such as the Modern Slavery Act in the United Kingdom how a regulator can effectively fulfil its role abroad? What could a Dutch supervisor do if an owner of a factory, plantation or mine abroad denied access to the supervisor? In addition, my group asks the initiator what role local organisations, trade unions, civil society and NGOs have in relation to the supervisor should this law enter into force. Mr. Chairman. At the expert meeting here in the First Chamber on 3 October, some organisations expressed doubts about this initiative law, because there are already other ways of combating child labour and giving consumers the confidence to buy "child labour-free" products. Several sectors where there is a risk of child labour being used, such as the textile, gold, banking, sustainable forest management and plant protein sectors, have voluntarily set up import agreements. For the D66 Group, it is not yet clear exactly how many companies and sectors have joined the import agreements. However, we know that far from all companies and sectors are fully connected and that the conclusion of agreements is slower than hoped. We would like to hear from the Minister what the government is doing to encourage companies to join these various agreements more quickly. My group would also like to know whether the government is seeking cooperation with the other European countries within the EU in the area of import agreements. At the expert meeting we heard on the one hand the assessment that the agreements could serve as an information bank for companies affected by the new law. The new law would once again ensure that more import agreements are signed. Legislation is often about behavior change. Only after a law came into force that required seat belts in cars, did the standard also become to wear a seat belt. On the other hand, there are also sounds that these covenants are meaningful and have not yet had the chance to prove their full usefulness. If companies and individuals themselves can take care of this change of standards without public intervention, this is preferable. Self-regulation before regulating. My group asks the initiator what views she has on the agreements on the initiative law. Isn't the law too big a stick behind the door that not only hits the companies where child labour takes place somewhere in the chain, but also many well-intentioned companies that are saddled with disproportionate administration and costs? Does it have any figures available to demonstrate the effectiveness of the agreements? What are the expectations of the evaluation to be carried out in two years' time? How does the Minister see the evaluation of the National Contact Point for the OECD Guidelines, expected in 2018, and the IOB review in 2018 of the IPO agreements in relation to this law and its associated AMvB? Article 5 (4) of the Own-initiative Act provides that an undertaking that "acts in accordance with a plan of approach (against child labour) approved by the Minister" shall be deemed to act with due care as envisaged by the law. How does that relate to the covenants? Would, for example, a highly enriching agreement, according to the initiator, qualify for that ministerial approval? If so, doesn't all organised business now act in accordance with the idea of the current initiative law? If not, why not? My group would like to hear the reaction of the initiator. In any event, my group welcomes the government's intention to continue the approach to the IVO agreements and to consider, in the course of the two-year review, 'whether or not binding measures can be taken'. The D66 Group asks the Minister how this law relates to those possible compelling measures and whether it can also inform the First Chamber of the possible mid-term review of the covenants. Finally, Madam President. My group supports the idea behind this legislative initiative; there is no doubt about that. However, the question is whether this initiative law can contribute to this, or whether its feasibility and enforcement are so complex and unclear that consumers and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands cannot get away with it, and that ultimately no child will work less under too difficult conditions in countries where child labour is still very common. I should therefore like to ask the Minister in her reply to make it clear how she looks at the feasibility, the monitoring of compliance and the possibilities of enforcement. After all, if this law is passed, it will be its responsibility. In addition, my group, in line with the text in the coalition agreement, would like to know whether it might be wiser to wait for the first evaluation of the import agreements before acting as a government. Finally, I would like to ask the initiator to consider whether she would like to keep her legislative proposal until the evaluation of the import agreements is available. In the meantime, it could consult with the Minister on the further development of the AMvBs. For example, in the final decision-making process in this Chamber there is a considerably greater understanding of the feasibility, supervision and enforcement of this initiative law. Moreover, the objection is addressed by too large a delegation from the legislator to the government. After all, the Chambers can then assess the implementing rules in the light of the whole of the legislative proposal. I see another question coming, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	I can see that, too, but I waited for you to finish. Mr. Ester is also waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	I have one last sentence. We look forward to the reply of the initiator and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	I listened carefully to Mrs Stienen's plea. She has asked a large number of questions to the Minister and to the initiator, a very large number of questions, I might add. I was looking a bit for the position of your group, but it became considerably clearer at the end. You have made a big point of Dutch companies and companies. You referred very briefly to a letter we received from CEOs from very large Dutch international companies that are behind the law. I would like to hear your response to that. I mention companies such as ABN AMRO, AEGON, ASR, ASN, Bavaria, Heineken, Koninklijke Verkade, Max Havelaar, Nestlé, Rabobank, Triodos, Van Lanschot and so on. These are major international companies that say: we think it is very good that this law sets a limit and sets a directive. They call on us to support this. In the context of your plea, I am very curious how you appreciate this letter and this appeal from the international Dutch business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	I thank Mr Ester for this question. It is clear that this law, if it is adopted, can only be successful if the business community wants to participate. We are, of course, pleased that all kinds of companies have already expressed their views on the intention behind this law. That is precisely why my group has asked the initiator about the statements made by Tony Chocolonely and these companies. I must honestly say that if you look at their statement, despite the support for the good intentions of this initiative law, our group still has questions about the sentence I was just reading and about which I asked the initiator a question. What's the point? When has child labour been dealt with as effectively as possible? I fully understand that the companies that signed the petition support the good intentions of Tony Chocolonely, but my group nevertheless wants an answer from the initiator to the question of how they estimate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	I understand that very well, but my question was actually how you estimate this. Look, these big companies don't sign a statement like that for nothing. They want to send out a very strong signal in the direction of society and politics. I'm just asking how you appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	We actually see a divided landscape. On the one hand, we see companies that have supported Tony Chocolonely's petition. That's incredibly nice, at the Christmas tree with some kids. It warms the heart, so does my heart. On the other hand, we can see that the Federation of Dutch Food Industries, large retailers and all kinds of other large companies have also emailed us with a lot of concerns about this legislation. I think it is our job today to see how you can reconcile that warm heart for child labour and that cool head when it comes to whether this legislation is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mrs. Vlietstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	A warm heart that combats child labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	Yes, I understand. I think that's understood. A warm heart for the fight against child labour. That's what you were gonna say. Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	Nice line, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen rightly referred to the OECD guidelines. She also attaches great importance to this. She also rightly pointed to the objectives of having child labour out of the world by 2025. I feel that the urgency to achieve this is not yet very great at D66. So I would like to hear from Mrs Stienen how she looks at the urgency of taking steps to achieve that goal by 2025. I am also saying this because she is asking whether this bill is not too big a stick behind the door, or whether we should not give the covenants more time first. I would point out that five covenants have been concluded at the moment, where the ambition was to have ten in 2016. Yesterday I read with great interest the annual report of one of the agreements in the textile sector, which shows that it is an incredibly complicated job to take steps forward. This underlines the need, at least in my view, for this urgency to be given a great deal of importance. I do not hear very much about this from the D66 Group, Mr President. A lot of questions are asked, but D66 actually offers very little perspective as to what should be done to achieve by 2025 that goal that we all support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	Yes, Madam President, I think everyone who knows D66 knows that we are a party that believes in international cooperation, believes in human rights and believes in international agreements on combating human rights violations. This also applies, of course, to combating all forms of child labour. This urgency is absolutely high on our agenda. The question we need to answer today is whether this initiative proposal is feasible and enforceable in such a way that we can monitor it and that urgency is served by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mrs Vlietstra, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	I have heard very well the questions put by Mrs Stienen on this point. I understand that the assessment of D66 ultimately depends on the answer given by the applicant and the Minister. To be honest, I had the impression that the answer was already clear, but I understand that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, Madam President, I can only give that impression to the PvdA colleague. Of course, we are a party that would like the parliamentary debate to take place. We shall then form our opinion on the basis of the answers given by the initiator and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, a warm welcome from my group to the Minister and to Mrs Kuik. I would also like to thank Mr Van Laar, the original initiator, and Mrs Kikken for the responsibility they have taken to make a legislative proposal that can take a step towards combating child labour. My group is also very grateful for the answers given in the various rounds of questions that have been discussed in the course of this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. More than 140 years after the adoption of our own children's law by Van Houten and 115 years after the introduction of the children's laws in our own country which legally enshrined the compulsory education of up to 12 years, the debate on child labour, but now in an international context, has not disappeared and is still needed here. Despite very broad agreement to combat child labour, this bill also required a lot of consideration, debate and discussion. A explanatory statement and an amended explanatory statement, five notes of amendment, four amendments adopted in the House of Representatives, one of which has been amended several times, are indications of how complicated it is still in the 21st century to tackle child labour in the world. And the very informative hearing in this house underlined how, on the basis of similar intentions, very different views arise and conclusions are drawn as to what that approach should be and whether a law, this bill, helps in doing so. Child labour is still widespread worldwide and it is more than likely that it is difficult to quantify this, however difficult it is to say that in the Netherlands products and services are still on the market that have been made with the help of children's hands under often degrading conditions. Child labour occurs in many chains and in many countries. The list that is considered to be reasonably reliable, which keeps track of the US Department of Labour Department of labor, contains 139 products from 75 countries................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Coffee and chocolate, olives and tomatoes, cotton, and carpets, soap and rubber, clothing and shoes. The list of everyday products that you and I can buy is long and almost certainly not complete. Even the Christmas decoration, which Mrs Stienen also saw hanging in the shopping streets, dissipates the list. The UN wants to eliminate all child labour from the world in 2025 under the Sustainable Development Goal 8, point 8.7, and Objective 4 says that by 2030 all children will not go to work but to school. These Sustainable Development Goals are not without obligation. There is still a long way to go in a short time, and that means that the Netherlands will also have to do everything in its power to eradicate child labour and to prevent producers, traders and consumers from knowingly or unconsciously, directly or indirectly benefiting from child labour. There is no doubt about that for my group. Moreover, this obligation for an approach is not new. The initiators rightly point out that many international conventions already require governments and companies to protect children from exploitation. This bill establishes that obligation legally and therefore makes it enforceable. It is often impossible for consumers to know that what they buy in the shop is guaranteed free of child labour. Although the consumer also has his own responsibility, he has three T-shirts for a tenner; can he? In my group's view, this law rightly places the primary task on the authorities and companies to ensure that no contaminated products are placed on the market in the Netherlands. The government by imposing an enforceable framework, companies by making an extreme effort within that framework to market child labour-free products and services. From the business community, we are getting different signals that legislation is helping or not helping. VNO-NCW is concerned that a legal framework undermines the desire to participate voluntarily in covenants. Existing international conventions and directives, such as those of the ILO and OECD, would have sufficient effect and powers of expression. Others, including large companies, Mr Ester just mentioned an impressive list of organisations, and many civil society organisations are in favour of that legal framework, either as a guarantee or as a stick behind the door. Undoubtedly not entirely coincidentally, the SER study on the functioning of the one and a half year old textile agreement, which, incidentally, has a much broader scope than child labour, was published very recently. This shows that by far not all brands are involved in the textile industry and not all of the participants have a detailed plan to combat abuses such as child labour. If not everyone participates, inside and outside the Netherlands, we will never achieve Sustainable Development Goal 8. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes initiatives by companies in the form of covenants, but also concludes that a legal stick is needed behind the door in order to cross the line. Although the Netherlands and Dutch companies have committed themselves to ILO conventions and the OECD guidelines mentioned above, there is no legally enforceable framework. This bill can provide that legal guarantee, and that deserves support in principle. But that does not mean that my group does not have some critical comments on the legislative proposal. Firstly, we share the view expressed by others that legislation would be much more effective if it were to be achieved at European level. Now many countries, such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France, are going their own way. Our question to the Minister is whether she has any signals from European initiatives in the field of an effective, harmonised and enforceable approach to child labour or whether she sees opportunities for such initiatives at European level. A second comment concerns the stated objective of the law. According to the explanatory memorandum, the primary point of view of the law is that Dutch consumers are protected against products and services with child labour. So formulated, that's a very inward-looking formulation. With the SP, we have also drawn attention to this in the written round, but the response of the initiators is not yet convincing. Why do the initiators choose this formulation and why do they not put the underlying objective of combating child labour at the forefront? If we do that, we will not release companies and governments from their obligation to act actively against suspicions or suspicions of child labour, but we will also encourage a more active attitude on the part of consumers themselves. Of course we must protect the consumer. It can't tell if there's fipronil in the eggs, too much nitrate in the spinach or children's hands in the cotton. But the consumer is not completely passive, and he should not, as far as we are concerned, be passive. I am thinking of too much salt and fat in food, unnecessary laps in a heavily polluting car and the already mentioned three T-shirts for a tenner. As a consumer, you may also appeal to me on your own responsibility for the items I purchase or use. I would like to hear a further explanation from the initiator of the choice made for this, in our view, somewhat indirect objective. Mr. Chairman. This bill ultimately aims to ensure that child labour goods and services are no longer sold in the Netherlands. To achieve this, companies must make efforts to ensure that there is no child labour in their chain. And if they do, they have to report it. My group certainly sees the benefits that this can bring. Companies need to actively look for abuses in their chain and by publishing what they encounter, more transparency is created. And that can in turn put pressure on producers to tackle and prevent abuses. The law requires companies active in the Netherlands to make their own statement that they have taken due care to detect and prevent child labour. The form of the self-declaration is free. In addition, we have two questions. The initiator trusts that the need to draw up a statement will lead to a snowball of steps and measures that mean that a company that identifies a suspicion or more than that of child labour in the chain will adopt an active attitude to detect, denounce and contribute to the solution. We believe that this effect can certainly occur. But on what basis does the initiator base the optimism that this will actually happen in all cases? My group also sees that many companies and entrepreneurs are working hard. But the risk that there will also be companies looking the other way, looking for a new supplier or leaving it at that does not seem imaginary to my group. If that happens, we'll only take half a step. Does the initiator see that risk? If not, why not? If so, what can we do about it in addition? And then: the free form of one's own statement leaves a lot of space and raises the question of what is proper care and what is not. The Council of State has also made a comment on this. Why is the initiator sufficient to include a reference to the UNGPs and the ILO in the law and to release the form of the self-declaration? Do businesses and consumers and ultimately the supervisory authorities no longer benefit much from a clear format with a clear step-by-step plan that defines the duty of care, if necessary in several variants for different sectors? This may seem more work in the first instance, but it also gives more clarity to all parties. In the longer term, our group believes that this is a more effective way of working. I'd like a response from the initiator and from the minister. I say the latter with a view to including such a clarifying framework in a possible AMvB. Mr. Chairman. This is directly linked to the enforcement of the law and thus to the controlling role of the government. Currently, enforcement seems to be the Achilles heel of the bill. Businesses failing or reporting abuses in the chain should demonstrate to the supervisor that they have taken due care and make it plausible that they have made efforts to detect abuses. Enforcement has a shaky basis without criteria and without a regulated supervisor. The initiator refers to an AMvB in which both aspects need to be addressed. Frankly, my group does not like legislation that is dependent on an AMvB when it comes to adopting the law. We therefore urge the initiator to give us more insight into the way in which this AMvB is to be completed, as this would make the enforcement test of this Chamber considerably easier. And does the initiator also want to take the position of the supervisor? The intended supervisor ACM... maybe I should say at this stage "an intended supervisor'... has already stated that she does not call, let alone feels quipped for this task. What alternatives do the initiator and the minister see for themselves and how could they equip any supervisor? We cannot amend this law, but we would have liked to see, given the importance of enforcement and the open questions that still exist, a possibility for the AMvB to have been provided for in the law. Can the Minister indicate how she can also involve this Chamber in any AMvB? Finally, Mr President. Child labour is a persistent phenomenon and has many appearances. A multiple and coherent approach is needed to meet the SDG8 targets in this area. This law can be a modest but also necessary step. Will the initiator and the minister once again reflect on the broader package of measures that the Netherlands can make an international effort to eradicate child labour and the inseparably related poverty? We very much look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	Organisations such as the FNV trade union have been active in areas such as Bangladesh at least since 1984. They also receive money, both from Foreign Affairs and Development Aid, to look at the working conditions of the workers in the factories. I'm talking about 1984. It's been a while. So millions of grants have gone to all these decades. Nothing's changed. They know exactly what's going on in the area. Why didn't you ever find out? And why isn't their knowledge used to inform consumers about what's going on, rather than throwing the ball at business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	Perhaps Mrs Faber heard that I said that we see a responsibility for companies and government, and that I also said that the consumer has a responsibility of her own. My simple example was three T-shirts for a tenner. You might know it's rattling. At times like this, my group also speaks to the consumer: gosh, think about whether that is kosher. We know a lot. We have information from chains. At the same time, it is impossible to monitor everything in the chain from a consumer point of view. Even for companies, this is already difficult and we also understand that this requires a big step. You say nothing happened. There's a difference of opinion on that. And if the demands go up in Bangladesh, we'll find new production in Myanmar, to name but a few. And there the rates are even lower and the monitoring of production is less. It's a little water flowing to the lowest well. So we are not just arguing for doing one thing and abandoning the other. We see the movements on the part of business to look for that lowest pit over and over again. This law won't solve everything. It is a step in the direction of a enforceable and legally enforceable protocol. If the law is properly implemented and implemented, we think it can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	Then I'll come back to my question. It concerned the trade union FNV. They have that knowledge. They know exactly what's going on. They know exactly what the working conditions are. That knowledge hasn't been used in decades. Do you not think that the knowledge of this example should be used and brought out by the trade union in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	If Mrs Faber asks this openly, I say that we must, of course, use and use all the knowledge we have. But it does not relieve other parties in the chain, such as companies, producers and others, of their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	Yes, Madam President. In any case, I am pleased that Mr van GroenLinks still sees some good in this and that we can still use that information. It turns out that the chairman of the FNV, Han Busker, is a member of GroenLinks. So I suggest you talk to Han Busker to bring that up and ask him to bring that information out so that we can inform consumers. Because these consumers have indirectly, through taxes, contributed millions of dollars to this information. So they're entitled to this information. Would you like to present this to the chairman of the FNV, who is your party partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	Our party has fantastic members and we're all talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the Minister has also been reassigned. I also knew that she would not like to miss the SGP contribution. Mr. Chairman. Exploitation and slavery, including child labour, are not ghosts of a distant past. It's reality, today, for that girl who carries stones in a quarry in India. For those teenager boys who are on fishing boats on Lake Volta in Ghana day and night. For children who work in gold mines or electronics factories. This exploitation of people is, simply, not the intention. Someone who put that into words beautifully is the writer C.S. Lewis: "Dwelling people don't exist. A mortal-without-anymore you've never met. Nations, cultures, arts, civilizations: they are mortal, and their lifespan is compared to ours that of a one-day fly. But making jokes, working, marrying, snapping, exploiting all that we do with immortal beings." If this quote underlines one thing, then it is that every human being is deeply immortal and therefore valuable. That every human life is valuable is not only in all kinds of international treaties, but is also a basic biblical starting point. There is the command: "Find justice; help the oppressed, do justice to the orphan." Mr. Chairman. In our country, fortunately, children are not employed massively. But, unfortunately, more indirectly, through the stuff we buy and consume, we do not always escape these practices. It seems obvious that we can't just look the other way. At the same time, the question is what is the best way to prevent exploitation. After all, legislation must produce more than a good feeling. In addition, it must not place companies in a position to prove that possible lucrative allegations of child labour have been taken out of the air. We need to be careful with steps involving a reversal of the burden of proof. Is the present legislative proposal effective and does it provide sufficient legal certainty? My group has reservations on these points. My first question to the author is: is the legislative proposal really effective? As far as consumer information is concerned, the answer seems to be positive. However, with a view to reducing child labour, the answer seems to be considerably more diffuse. The question is whether the bill really harms the perpetrators, and whether it really helps the children affected, concrete and tangible. Can the author give any further explanation? The question of effectiveness is, secondly, directly linked to supervision. The regulatory body will have to be established per AMvB. That is in itself understandable, but it does not make decision-making any easier today. What kind of supervisor has the authority and capacity for proper supervision of an inherently limitless problem such as child labour in global production chains? As we know, at least the ACM doesn't like this. What instruments, opportunities or duties does a supervisor have when it comes to cooperating with governments where exploitation takes place? I'd like a response from the petitioner. Thirdly, the issue of legal certainty and research taxation for companies. It is a good thing that companies can join forces by carrying out the necessary research together. And that, partly because of an amendment by my colleagues in the House of Representatives, certain categories of companies are excluded from the investigation obligation, in accordance with Article 6 of the bill. This is good news for many small companies and for companies with a purely Dutch production chain. Fortunately, the government agrees that such an exception is sensible. I would like to stress that this derogation should not be interpreted as being too limited, as if it should be limited to a very minimum number of companies. This would be very difficult for my group. The written reply did not reassure me entirely. Please provide a more detailed explanation from the author. Other key questions are: how far-reaching and in-depth should the research be? For example. A Dutch retailer has a French supplier, who buys again from a Chinese retailer, who in turn does business with dozens of suppliers, including some from Vietnam. There is no direct evidence of child labour, but indirect evidence, because its products are very cheap. After some questions, the answer is: no, there is really no child labour. The contract also states that there is no child labour. Is this enough in the eyes of the performer? What certainty does this offer and is this not a false certainty? Next, on the basis of which the applicant expects the exact requirements of the investigation obligation, which will be established in accordance with ILO guidelines per AMvB, to be clear and manageable? I would also like to see details of the administrative burden involved. My fourth and final question is how this proposal relates to other means of combating child labour. The most common counterpart of legislation is the covenant. According to the applicant, agreements would not be sufficiently effective because they were too non-binding. At the same time, this bill would strengthen the commitment through covenants. Can the applicant further justify this? I'm closing up. The lives of child slaves are not worthless, but valuable. They should not work in sweat and blood, but should be able to go to school and play mischief with their comrades. Several countries, including the UK and the US, have drawn up rules to combat child labour. Several large companies support this bill. Everyone in this house is very much in agreement on the goal. But the central question is whether the legislative proposal before us is also the right way to combat these abuses. I am afraid of legislation that gives us a sense of satisfaction and allows us to sit back, because there are rules that do not help a child. I fear for legislation without teeth and without means of enforcement. I look forward to answering my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next item is a sensitive issue: the violation of children's rights and dignity as a result of child labour. The entire Chamber will agree that child labour and its disruptive effects must be combated. The fact that this occurs abroad does not relieve us of the moral obligation to do everything possible to put an end to it. This is because of our involvement through trade relations. This naturally brings our government, business, NGOs and consumers into the picture. The crucial question is how to influence the abuses. There may be differences of opinion on this. Mr. Chairman. I assume that we can have a debate on this subject based on arguments, while recognising a common objective. The debate is now focusing on this initiative legislative proposal. The written consultation has already made it clear that the VVD Group is critical of the legal approach proposed here. The critical attitude is not independent of the initiatives already taking place under the authority of the current OECD directives. I am referring here to the IMVO agreements. They are, moreover, directives with a much broader scope than child labour in a strict sense. Initiatives should therefore be more than directly combating child labour. Think of facilitating and making education legally compulsory. A crucial question is whether this legislative proposal promotes or hinders these initiatives. We also have a number of legal and constitutional issues to deal with. I will deal with this in confidence to have a fruitful exchange of views with the initiator and the Minister. A first problem provides the primary focus of this bill, namely consumer law. This bill focuses on a particular legal subject, namely the consumer. It aims to protect consumers from products and services created by child labour. I really wonder if this is the right legal approach. It is not so much a question of whether consumers would give mass consent not to wish for such products. It doesn't matter. But do they need legal protection? Really protective, aren't they, like, underage and unprotected kids? Does the initiator wish to make it clear what this choice of protected legal subject is derived from? I do believe that the objection to child labour lives among consumers. There is no doubt that the Netherlands bears witness to such moral sincerity. However, putting consumer law at the centre of attention suggests that consumers are the primary victims of wrong products. I can imagine that consumers are ignorant, deceived and want certainties, but the victim and therefore the subject of the law are really the children. Does the initiator wish to make it clear why she does not use the children affected as a primary legal subject? This legal choice is consistent with the OECD guidelines, isn't it? I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this, as she has to implement the law on the basis of legally binding regulations. The VVD Group also wonders why this bill unilaterally shifts responsibility for combating child labour to entrepreneurs. After all, the above-mentioned legal subjects disappear from the picture and the problem is passed on to entrepreneurs. Again, they must protect consumers on the basis of legal requirements. But there are still more parties at stake, such as umbrella organisations, NGOs and the government? Is it not obvious that these parties together contribute to a successful approach? The current initiatives have rightly chosen a broad action plan under the heading of covenants. This initiative is therefore not only supported by entrepreneurs, but also involves third parties in the implementation process. In this light, the statement to be made by entrepreneurs on the basis of this legislative proposal is far too one-sided and defensive. Of course, our consumers and our entrepreneurs must be free from involvement in child labour. But even the scary focus on child labour falls short. Their vulnerability extends further. It is also a question of offering the children concerned an alternative. This includes education for everything, and then not only a mandatory compulsory education, but also facilities. The approach must therefore be much broader than just testing for child labour by entrepreneurs. These are also positive targets. I would also like to hear the initiativer and the minister as involved government party. A broader approach is also needed because of extremely complicated market conditions. I am referring to the complicated braiding of production and trade behind offered finished products. This complication naturally leads to the question of whether responsibility for safeguarding child labour should be placed at the heart of individual companies. The present bill seems to lay down the final checkability here. It seems to me that the effectiveness of the approach is increased many times by assuming the strength of entire sectors, supported by interested and expert third parties. Smaller companies cannot possibly oversee the entire battlefield of product and trade chains. It is therefore very doubtful whether the legally required explanation of a single person can be based on a transparent field of work in third countries. So how insightful and reliable is such an explanation? And how effective is it in order to achieve the desired result? It may be that the law obliges entrepreneurs and that this can be deducted as a profit, but this also applies in a moral sense to a covenant. Participation may be voluntary, but is anything but non-binding. Why, therefore, is there no choice for collective actions involving legal support? Does the initiator wish to comment on this? Does it also want to answer the question of whether the individualisation of the approach is going to be an obstacle to a shared, rather collective responsibility, one on which the current action plan and the agreements aim? In fact, reports from business circles indicate that this is the case. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to another point: the approach itself. I am referring to the submission of a statement which makes it clear that due care has been taken to prevent the production of traded goods or services with child labour. Apart from the administrative obligations associated with this method, the VVD Group wonders whether individual entrepreneurs are really able to carry out final research on the origin of their product or parts of it on their own initiative. It seems to me that the explanatory statement is based too much on simple and transparent chains of production and trade, with a company based in the Netherlands at the end of the line. Even a single chain from raw material to finished product often contains so many international intermediaries that seeing through it and tracing its origin is an unfeasible task for individuals. Such complexity is many times greater than finished products consist of large numbers of raw materials, intermediate products and intermediate parties. This complexity runs like an opaque fog bank through the explanation to be provided. As a matter of course, in a legal sense, this can only force an effort. But how effective and conclusive is this effort? It should be made clear in the statement that the attempt has been made to make this mess transparent. This will be an impossible task for many, especially for smaller companies. And I am not even talking about all kinds of intermediaries that are determined by changing daily prices on the market. I have the impression, moreover, that the initiator is aware of this. In the explanatory memorandum, it states that "the form in which companies are required to report and the way in which they implement the effort obligation is free of them'. I fear that 'form' and 'wise' in practice will be desperate attempts to make the best of it. And that "the best" will mainly be motivated by the attempt to prevent complaints from being made and to blame negligence. It is very doubtful whether such a negative attitude will benefit the actual purpose of the law, the reduction of child labour. A broad multi-stakeholder approach seems to me to be much more effective, and that is precisely what the OECD guidelines are focusing on. It is not just because of the complexity that these directives distinguish between 'to cause', 'to contribute' and 'linked to'. Does the initiator wish to comment on this? Does she want to make it clear why my fear that the statement is ineffective would be unjustified? How does she think the problem of complex chains should be solved? Is she sure that small businesses can also comply with the legal requirements? In the written discussion, the initiator states that many entrepreneurs now have no knowledge of the OECD directives and thus do nothing with them, but that the present law will increase awareness and willingness to act. If so, is it certain that this will lead to agreement and effective action? It should also be a positive moral awareness and good will for everything, shouldn't it? Is it not much more effective to put the primacy of sectoral action plans and to build good will through the collective responsibility of sectors and the shared insights and actions built up within them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	I would like to ask Mr Schaap about the emphasis he places on the moral aspects of this matter: the need to tackle this problem of child labour through the moral awareness among all possible stakeholders, but also among companies that market products from abroad on the Dutch market. I agree, of course, with Mr Schaap that this is an extremely important ingredient in dealing with child labour or other serious abuses. Eventually, we won't be able to live without it. But it has already been mentioned by Mrs Stienen: moral awareness is usually lagging behind the legal compulsion. We see that companies will not move seriously until the sword of Damocles of a legal regulation hangs over their heads. Before then, the competitive constraint in which they are imprisoned has meant that Mrs Faber stressed that this cost increase for our national companies is limited in their ability to give material substance to their moral awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	What is your question to Mr Schaap? Could you keep it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr Schaap regularly refers to the OECD directives and says that there is a better approach. Just this month, Roel Nieuwenkamp, the chairman of the OECD Committee on Enterprises and Responsible Behaviour, wrote a piece in which he complained about the slowness with which companies are implementing it. The result is that national governments or national parliaments are going to interfere in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	What is your question to Mr Schaap?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	My question to Mr Schaap is: could he not agree with me that undertakings can avert this sword from Damocles themselves by taking action instead of waiting for such a legal sanction to occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	For me, moral awareness and good will are a foundation. We need to build on that. After all, I have given quite a broad answer to the OECD directives, all of which have been signed by the Netherlands and which are therefore binding, as well as to the agreements entered into. The need to exert great pressure on entrepreneurs to participate is self-evident. That's my opinion, too. I'll get back to you on that. As far as I am concerned, it is also very discussable that this can also be supported by the legislator. The only question I am asking is whether this legal approach is the right one and, worse still, whether it can lead to this way of working being annoying for building and cooperating with those covenants. But I'm not just gonna leave it here with a good moral feeling. That's just a starting point. And that must remain there, if something as complicated as this is to be a great success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	I thank Mr Schaap for his reply. However, I see room for convergence in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	That would be a good outcome. Mr. Chairman. I have another point, which others have already addressed. That is compliance, including supervision and ultimately tough enforcement. What remains of the current monitoring of compliance with the OECD directives, namely the National Contact Point, under this bill? The primacy of the supervision and enforcement of the state is somehow going to compete with the supervision by the NCS? This is not independent of the precise focus on which the entrepreneur must comply with the law and on which it will be enforced, namely the nature and content of the statement. The VVD Group notes that the statement does not have to contain a hard and clear testable result, namely the greatest possible assurance that the products and services do not contain child labour. The statement merely expresses an effort. It must be demonstrated that, taking into account the nature of the undertaking, there has been reasonably sufficient work to prevent child labour. The risk should be mitigated. The VVD Group considers that such a criterion is vague in its approach and relative in its efforts. Similarly, the criterion of assessment of the submitted statement by supervisors and enforcers is so vague. How should it be made clear that an entrepreneur has made sufficient efforts? Instead of an assessment of standardized measures and therefore a hard and testable effort, "do your best" is monitored. It is only possible that this will force further clarification within the shortest time through an AMvB, which gives such an AMvB the character of pseudo-legislation. The VVD Group would like the initiator to give further consideration to this approach and the above-mentioned shyness, which provides more clarity as to the feasibility and enforcement of the instrument "clarification." As the Minister will immediately be responsible for implementation, a reflection on her part is also welcome. There is another problem, namely enforcement in the strict sense. The bill places the enforcement task in vague terms in the hands of the ACM. In any case, it is suggested that this institution could be eligible for this. This leads in advance to the question whether this institution is equipped to do so. I would point out that the ACM itself has doubts about this. Others have already done that. However, whoever is responsible for this task will be a problem which will end the power of enforcement at the Dutch border. The transparency of traceability in third countries through this limited range is once again unclear. How to verify and prove that a company across the border has not fulfilled its legal obligations? The result may be that only the content of the document within the Netherlands is taken back to enforcement. For example, the ultimate objective, consumer protection and the reduction of child labour, is given an unacceptable legalistic basis. The VVD Group would like to hear from the initiator how she sees enforcement and how she thinks she can make it sufficiently tough. The Minister would also like the group to know how it intends to implement this legally. Is it certain that sufficient human and financial resources will be made available for this purpose? The Group would also like to clarify a predictable dispute that will arise. How should differences in the assessment of the effort between maintainer and entrepreneur be dealt with? Mr. Chairman. Here is a point of principle of state law. The initiator states that the overall question of enforcement will be further addressed in an AMvB. The VVD Group regards this as extremely worrying. Defensive legislation is clear not only on the objective, but also on the implementation and enforcement of legal obligations. These criteria say everything about the quality of legislation. It is hard for the VVD that enforcement, namely who and how, is regulated in clear terms in the law. For this reason alone, the present legislative proposal should be taken back and provided with a clear enforcement paragraph. On this point, too, the Group of the Party of European Socialists calls for a reaction from the initiator, as well as a reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I had already said that there is no difference of opinion on the purpose of the draft law before us, namely to reduce child labour. However, the VVD Group has serious doubts as to whether the approach offered in this bill contributes to its effective implementation. For the time being, this group is concerned that the proposed approach is inadequate and is also going to disrupt ongoing initiatives. It goes without saying that these initiatives need to be stimulated. The expert meeting in this house has made it clear that those directly involved are also pressing for this. However, there are many fears that this bill will not be a stimulus but a distortion of the implementation of the OECD directives. Frustrations in the field of work are extremely undesirable for promoting engagement and achieving the generally desired goal. The VVD Group asks the initiator to also consider this bill in response to the questions raised here about this bill, to hold it up or to take it back. It could then first consult with the many stakeholders in the current initiatives with a view to jointly implementing effective legal support in the implementation of the OECD Directives and meeting the broad objectives set out in the Directives. Perhaps the Minister would also like to respond to this suggestion. The group awaits the answer before reaching a final judgment on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. Oh, Mrs Faber has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	I had a question for Mr. Schaap about the proper care. Now the bill demands that every entrepreneur should take care of that himself. Mr. Schaap prefers it as a collective responsibility. Suppose the Minister promises that due care can be taken in the form of collective responsibility. So what's the VVD's position on the bill? Can she agree to that, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	The latter depends on many more answers, and I do not regard collective responsibility as an anonymous one. A collective is also an addition of all possible individuals involved in collectivity. This requires a great deal of effort from umbrella organisations and associations and also the addition of what an entrepreneur should do through knowledge or even political pressure that can come from NGOs and so on. In that sense, therefore, I consider such a collective responsibility to be broad-based.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	I understand. I understand that it is broad-based, but if the sector could just collectively regulate it, could that change your position?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	I don't have a final point of view yet. I have put forward a number of questions and some critical notes here. I can guess one answer from the initiator, namely that a collective can very much support the individuals. I am talking about something else, namely that the statement or careful behaviour can be removed a bit from individual entrepreneurs, especially in SMEs, and even more in SMEs that has to do with extremely complex chains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I am also speaking on behalf of the Independent Senate Group. First of all, both groups would like to congratulate the author of the legislative proposal, Mrs Kuik, and certainly her predecessor, Mr Van Laar, on their initiative proposal and on the considerable work that has been done in drawing up it. Child labour is a serious failure and a major social problem. Not so long ago, we were able to read in one of the national newspapers how a Dutch company deceives consumers when buying "fairtrade hazelnut paste." Fairtrade, nothing wrong with that, you'd say. Unfortunately, fair trade hazelnuts do not exist. By far the majority of hazelnuts come from Turkey and children are used in their picking. Kurds from the east and refugees from Syria travel from harvest to harvest with tents to pick nuts under appalling conditions. Undoubtedly not known to consumers; they think they buy a product produced with fair trade. I shall begin with this example, Mr President, because it is at the heart of the present initiative proposal: protecting consumers from the acquisition of goods and services produced by child labour and thereby contributing to the reduction of child labour. Mr. Chairman. Although steps have been taken in recent years, child labour is still an immense problem. Recent ILO figures show that 152 million children worldwide, often in appalling conditions, are working and therefore not going to school. It's a shocking figure. Much of what is produced by children ends up in international chains. So many of the products we buy here are child labour. In our clothing, our phones, but also in agricultural products, like the aforementioned hazelnut paste. Mr. Chairman. Kids shouldn't be working. Children should go to school and focus on their development and their future, and thus on the development and future of the region and the country in which they live. Knowledge is progress. The children of primary school Het Volle Leven in The Hague and the Council of Children of Unicef brought this to our attention again last week by offering the petition, in which they pronounce themselves in favour of the Child Labour Care Duty Act. "A child should go to school all over the world. A child should be able to be just a child, have a home and play with other children."That's one of their statements. For our children so naturally, not for millions of children elsewhere in the world. Mr. Chairman. Anything that can reasonably contribute to the eradication of child labour should therefore be done in the eyes of both our groups. Not only by governments and civil society organisations, but also by business. From this point of view, we are assessing the present initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. The author of the bill stated in the explanatory memorandum that 96% of Dutch consumers find it unacceptable that products have a low price because they are made by children. The legislative proposal brings together both issues: consumer protection and the reduction of child labour. In doing so, the applicant aims to contribute to reducing, in particular, the worst forms of child labour, by ensuring that consumers can assume that goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies, who, within their ability, reasonably do everything to prevent their products and services from being produced using child labour. Mr. Chairman. The question that needs to be answered is: is legislation necessary? Does it add anything to what is already being done? How does it relate to other initiatives, including the "imvo" agreements? When is legislation effective and can it contribute to further reducing child labour? At the expert meeting held on 3 October, many speakers raised the added value of this bill. Some of them felt that companies were doing enough at the moment and that the mandatory nature of the law could even undermine that. Others, on the other hand, see the legislative proposal as an incentive for all companies to start work, precisely because it is mandatory. Mr. Chairman. Without wishing to ignore a number of objections raised by representatives of civil society and industry, but also by the State Council, I would like to return to this point. Our political groups believe that the legislative proposal can be a welcome addition. We have a number of considerations for that. Since 2011, we have known the OECD guidelines to do international business. It makes clear what the Dutch government expects of companies doing international business. The guidelines provide guidance to companies on how to deal with issues such as chain responsibility, human rights, child labour, environment and corruption, and thus constitute the starting point for Dutch imvo policy. The guidelines require companies to use their influence to improve the situation when they see risks to human rights in their value chains. Despite the active attitude of the government to promote the awareness and application of the directives, research shows that they are not sufficiently followed. Only 30% of Dutch listed companies openly commit to these guidelines. Many companies are not yet sufficiently familiar with the existence of the directives or may not be committed to them, because they are recommendations. With regard to the ILO's core conventions on child labour adopted in 1998, we see the same picture. Compliance with the conventions leaves serious shortcomings. Although the number of children working shows a decrease, it is slow and the rate of decrease is decreasing. Mr. Chairman. In 2015, the UN Sustainable Development Goals were established. All members of the UN have thus committed themselves, among other things, to the goal of eliminating child labour worldwide by 2025. An extremely ambitious goal. To achieve that goal, all sails will have to be rebuilt. Our groups have great doubts as to whether the current measures and efforts will achieve this. We would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with us. Mr. Chairman. There are companies that lead and take responsibility. An increasing number of mainly larger companies participate in existing import agreements or participate in the creation of new ones. During the discussion of the 2018 budget of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the Dutch Parliament, the Minister announced that five covenants have been concluded since 2016 and that four are in the pipeline. Can the Minister indicate how many companies are involved, whether they are large companies or SMEs or both? Five agreements seem to be a good score, chairman, but the ambition was to have ten in 2016. Why didn't the Secretary of State think he could do this? Does the Minister agree with the PvdA and OSF groups that the initiative proposal offers opportunities to increase the number of Imvos? Several companies, including Rabobank Nederland, Heineken, Verstegen, Max Havelaar, Aegon Nederland, Wessanen, ASN Bank, Nestlé and Tony's Chocolonely, have publicly supported the bill and called on the government to set the standard that all products and services on the Dutch market should be 100% child labour free. These companies also advocate the creation of a level playing field and the "keep in the lead" of our country. I would like to hear from both our political groups and the minister whether this ambition is shared by them. Mr. Chairman. We appreciate what is already being done by these and other companies. They show that what the legislative proposal aims to do is feasible and results. At the same time, there is a large group of people left behind. This may be due to ignorance of the international guidelines. It may also have to do with the lack of sense of urgency. If this bill is passed by this Chamber, these companies will be obliged to step up and take action. Mr. Chairman. Our groups therefore see this bill as an opportunity to encourage this particular group to work, to seek cooperation with suppliers, with fellow companies, with civil society organisations, to join the import agreements and to learn from companies that already have experience of child labour-freening their products and services. We've got to get past the no strings. Given the results so far and the ambitions set for 2025, this is necessary in the eyes of our political groups. This law does not require anything new, but is in line with what is already expected of companies on the basis of the OECD guidelines. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State and others have made critical comments on the effectiveness, feasibility and enforcement of the law. In the written examination of the bill, many questions have been raised, including by our political groups, on these points. It has been stated by the petitioner and the government that this bill is a "framework law" and that these points are further worked out in an AMvB, which we accept, but we would like to hear it before this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	I would like to ask you whether it is not already possible under national law, including all the treaties signed by the Netherlands which are binding on everyone and which also apply to companies, to force companies to participate in the agreements. I don't think you need this law for that at all. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	From what I have said, you will have noticed that I do not share that view. I do, however, share your view that the directives, as formulated, and the way in which they are implemented by the government, allow companies to become active in this area. But when I look at the results, I think there is still a world to be won and, unfortunately, we have to note that many companies do not take action, even though they have to comply with those directives. That is why our groups believe that it is necessary to take a next step. It is in line with the OECD guidelines, but it is legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	Could it not be that we already have more than enough legislation? We have not only the OECD directives, but also the European Human Rights Conventions, the UN Conventions, the rights of the child and all of it. This would enable a Minister for Development to encourage and inform businesses. You don't need a new legal basis for that anymore, is my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	That is what has happened over the past few years. The predecessor of Minister Kaag, Minister Ploumen, has been extremely active in this field. It has been very stimulating with regard to the development of import agreements. But I am disappointed to note that the results are lagging behind. If I reject the ambition to end child labour in the next seven years in 2025, then I think we should do more than just comply with directives and treaties. Then it is necessary to take a next step. We see in this law opportunities to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mrs. Stienen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	I would like to go back to the point that was made earlier, before Mr Vlietstra switched to the covenants. When I listen to Mrs Vlietstra, I still have the dilemma of the objective of this law. The explanatory memorandum states: '...to ensure that consumers can assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies, who can reasonably do anything about it... etc. etc. we have already read a few times. So the law actually focuses on consumers. I'm going back to the shopping street anyway. Thank you, Mr Lintmeijer, for pointing out the party lighting. I fear, indeed, that child labour may have come into play. But I wonder if it is not very confusing for that consumer at the moment. All labels! I believe there are dozens. How does Mrs Vlietstra see that this law can give consumers more clarity, so that when they buy, they will actually buy products that are as free as possible from child labour? Is this law not going to contribute more to the already existing confusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	Firstly, my experience and perhaps Mrs Stienen's, too, is that a lot of consumers have no idea that in many products they buy there is one way or another child labour. I have talked about this with a lot of people in recent weeks, and if you give examples of products that have been used for child labour, it turns out to me that many consumers are going to have a problem, and that also applies to myself, and probably to you too, with a lot of products. This law obliges companies to seriously check whether child labour has been used in the products they sell or in the services they provide. This law isn't on its own. I am going to ask another question about this immediately, and several speakers have already done so. For me, this law fits in with a trifle of measures, some of which is already a reality, which together contribute to making consumers aware of the seriousness of the situation and the fact that they are unintentionally cooperating in it, and which fits in with a policy of helping child labour out of the world in the longer term. So we see this law as part of a much broader package of measures. I immediately agree with you that this includes raising awareness among consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	Next: the jeweller and baker would like to show their consumers that they are thinking about it. Isn't it easier to join a business sector that is affiliated to such a covenant than to join in or get a statement, where you can almost be accused of being just windowdressing? I'm just a little crazy here. Isn't it better and more careful for companies to join such a covenant out of care towards their consumers? Then you can say: we do that with the whole business sector and you can be sure that we are jointly trying to combat child labour in our chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	That seems to me absolutely very sensible. I also think that it is difficult for companies, especially for the examples you mention, to conduct such an individual examination of their own products. So I would advise them to join agreements, if they are already there, because they are far from being in all sectors. But I would certainly advise them to seek cooperation with fellow companies, brache organisations, NGOs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	Finally. Oh, no, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	I was just triggered by Mrs Lokin-Sassen's interruption. She mentioned that there are already international directives and treaties. So there are already tools to tackle child labour. But this bill suggests it's not enough. The bill should provide for due diligence to be applied, and so on. But it is also known that the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently indicating that it is too complicated to investigate cases abroad. There's a lack of capacity. In fact, the lack of capacity and the failure of the government are simply placed on the board of the entrepreneur? Or am I wrong about that? It's up to the D.A. to investigate that at first, isn't it? But they have no capacity and they find it too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	Several speakers have asked questions about monitoring. I'm gonna do that, too. That is precisely one of the points on which this debate needs to be clarified. I am therefore happy to agree with the questions that have been asked, but I am going to repeat them in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	I think that's a little too easy. The D.A. finds it too complex and has no capacity. So it seems that it is actually being thrown over the wall of business. Don't you think it's being shifted to business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	I don't think so. This isn't about shuffling off at all. The point is that we know OECD directives that impose responsibilities on governments and companies. Companies are ideally placed to look into their chain. That's one way. The other side is that we are talking about: how do we ensure that it can be carried out in the best possible way? That is what the debate is about today. The third point is that we will also have to look at how we can support companies in doing so. The necessary experience has also been gained within the Ivo agreements. You're probably talking about the ACM and not the D.A.'s office. The ACM was initially foreseen as a supervisor. If you don't mind, Mr President, I'd like to ask you a few questions about that right away. They are very much in line with what other groups have asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	You may move on, but Mrs Faber still has a brief interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	I was talking about the DA, because the ACM has already indicated that she doesn't want to burn her hands on being a supervisor in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	Please continue, Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	I'm moving on. It has been stated by the applicant and the government that this bill is a framework law and that these points, effectiveness, feasibility and supervision, are further elaborated in an AMvB, which we assume will be pre-established in this Chamber. On this point, we are happy to receive a commitment. According to the government's response to this Chamber, this will allow for a careful discussion of the tasks of the supervisor and the capacity, expertise, powers and resources required for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. Our groups assume that thinking about implementation over the past period has not stopped. We would like to invite the applicant and the Minister to share their thoughts on these points, so that we can already form an image of the details in this debate. We ask a number of questions to both the applicant and the minister. Mr. Chairman. We try to imagine how a company is supposed to act when the law is introduced. That company will have to declare that it has done everything that can reasonably be required of it to verify whether the products or services supplied by it contain child labour. The next item is the question of how this company obtains good and reliable information. Production chains are often long and difficult to fathom. How does the initiator see this and how does she think that companies can be supported? What thoughts does the applicant have with regard to the requirements to be met by the research? We also ask the Minister the same questions. On the basis of its research, the company will have to state in a statement that it has fulfilled the obligation to verify whether its product has been produced with child labour within its possibilities. All statements will be entered in a public register. End users and legal entities may, on this basis, lodge a complaint with the supervisor. It is important that the statement contains relevant information on which the complainant can base his complaint. What requirements, according to the applicant and the Minister, will the declaration have to meet at least? Where the undertaking has a reasonable suspicion that the products or services to be supplied have been produced using child labour, it should draw up a plan of action. Our groups are curious to see what ideas the initiator and the minister have on the demands for this plan of action. Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about supervision and the supervisor. In the original bill the supervision was invested with the Authority Consumer and Market. Many, not least the ACM itself, have questioned this choice and put forward alternatives, such as the OECD National Contact Point Guidelines, the Social Affairs Inspectorate or NVWA. It has led to the legislative proposal, as finally established by the Lower House, not to appoint a supervisor. The supervisor still to be appointed will have to have sufficient powers and resources to carry out his task effectively. Both groups of both the applicant and the minister would like to hear which considerations they consider should play a role in the final choice of the supervisor. Mr. Chairman. In our view, the obligation for companies to make a statement contained in the legislative proposal should be seen in a broad context. In her reply to a question from the PVV group, the initiator listed what is currently being done by individual companies, sectors, NGOs, local initiatives and governments to reduce child labour. Can the applicant indicate how she positions the bill within this range of initiatives? How does it relate to the "imvo" agreements and initiatives? How does the applicant assess the concern of VNO-NCW and others that the bill could be counterproductive in this respect? What is the need for accompanying policies? How can it be promoted that the bill does not merely have a symbolic effect, but contributes substantially to reducing child labour? We also like to ask the Minister the same questions. Mr. Chairman. Before concluding, I would like to raise two more points. The applicant proposes that the law should enter into force in two years at the earliest, on 1 January 2020. This gives time, on the one hand, for good preparation by both the government and companies. On the other hand, it carries the risk that companies that do not use two years to prepare themselves but do nothing for the time being and wait until the law actually comes into force. How does the applicant intend to prevent this? How can companies be encouraged to get to work earlier? What's it gonna take? We also like to ask the Minister the same questions. What role does the Minister see for himself and what instruments are available? How can two years be lost on the road to 2025? And when, in the Minister's view, is the time to actually bring the law into force? Secondly, the PvdA and OSF groups are calling for attention to be paid to the European dimension. We are pleased to note that legislation is being put in place in countries around us to reduce child labour worldwide. But we also see that each country has its own course. In France, for example, a law has been passed imposing a duty of care on the largest companies in the field of human rights and the environment. The United Kingdom is aware of the Modern Slavery Act, which obliges companies to report on their impact on forced labour. And in Germany, the government announced that it would come up with mandatory legislation in 2020 if half of companies with more than 500 employees had not yet managed to incorporate due diligence into their business operations in the area of human rights. Mr. Chairman. With this bill we are in good company. However, in the view of both groups, it would be a good idea to coordinate existing and future legislation in this area within the European Union. We would like to hear from the Minister how she will promote this coordination at European level. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to being answered by the applicant and by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. before lunch.
