ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Kuzu's question, on behalf of DENK, to the Foreign Minister, whom I welcome, about the systematic rape of Rohingya women. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Large-scale violations of human rights. A textbook example of ethnic cleansing. These are two classifications that have been used internationally for the disgusting and devilish crimes committed by the Myanmari army in cooperation with radically repressed civilian militias. All this under the watchful eye of the government led by Aung San Suu Kyi, Nobel Prize winner. The most horrible stories about Rohingya being massacred, abused, whose homes are burned down and whose babies are killed, reach us in eyewitness accounts in reports from international organizations, including the United Nations. And as if that's not enough, yesterday we heard the news that the army in Myanmar is also systematically raping Rohingya women. Press agency AP had talks with 29 Rohingya women and girls in refugee camps, some of them only 9 years old. We're reading an eyewitness account of a woman whose parents were killed by the army. She was raped by soldiers and they shot her husband in front of her eyes when he yelled for help. Mr. Chairman. At times like this, we as an international community cannot stand by. The Myanmari army and the government of Myanmar deny all allegations. In what ways does our minister, our government, currently put pressure on the Myanmari government to stop these rapes? What international structures does this take place? What means of pressure, what means of pressure, are used? Shouldn't we increase and increase sanctions against the army officials? Should we freeze the assets? What role can the Netherlands play in initiating an international criminal trial against the perpetrators? Because this can't go unpunished. What about aftercare for the traumatized victims in refugee camps? Does the Netherlands contribute with resources and expertise to provide aftercare to victims of sexual violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me first say, like Mr Kuzu, on behalf of the Dutch Government, that what is happening there is really unacceptable and undesirable. The stories are not yet clear everywhere, but what is quite clear is that there are serious violations of human rights here. I don't think anyone in this house can imagine how large-scale rapes of girls with ages sometimes under 10 should be for those involved and their families. We can only reject that in the hardest way. Let us also be clear that the Netherlands is doing so. The Dutch Government, together with the EU, has drawn attention to this at the UN Human Rights Council on 5 December. This has also been unanimously condemned by the UN. In November, the United Nations General Assembly also issued a condemnation on the initiative of the Netherlands, but in fact very broad. We have a policy of sanctions towards Myanmar's military summit. So we do as much in international structures as we can. We must also realise that the extension of sanctions, which Mr Kuzu also asked for, requires broad support for this. The sanctions have already been tightened up in previous cases. Whether that's gonna work again next time, we need to take a look. In the case of sanctions, there is always a weighting. We want targeted sanctions against the military leaders. These sanctions have often proved effective. We do not want broad sanctions that affect the population in a broad sense. Targeted sanctions are the policy that has been put in place. We also support victims. We mainly support funds that are trying to help victims. That is very difficult, because almost no one has access to Myanmar. Even the fact-finding committee doesn't have access. We call for this to be done quickly, but we are now supporting the victims of rapes in the field of sexual and reproductive rights, which sounds much more positive than it is in this case via the UNFPA programme. We also support the Multi-Donor Trust Funds in the field of healthcare, specifically targeted at these victims. The International Red Cross is also supported by us to take specific care of this problem. Finally. All these cases are eventually patches on a very large wound. We have to stick to those patches, but I can only underline what Mr Kuzu himself said on that point, that what is happening in that area in Myanmar really falls outside of any civilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	In any case, I am pleased that this minister and this government strongly condemn what is happening there. I'm so happy about that. I am also pleased with the sanction policy that has been agreed, but I would like to go a step further. I also hear the Minister very clearly say that steps will be taken when there is room for that, including in the international context. I'm in favour of that. In any case, I would ask the Minister to get to work on that. What matters, however, is that the perpetrators of these wrongdoers must be severely punished. I also asked whether it is possible to detect and prosecute these perpetrators internationally. The Minister also spoke about the fact-finding mission of the United Nations. This one doesn't have access to the area yet. That actually means that all the wrongs that are being committed at the moment and material to find offenders are now not documented. What other channels can the Minister use to ensure that the perpetrators of these terrible crimes do not escape their punishment? Are there any possibilities for the Netherlands, in cooperation with other countries, to issue an arrest warrant against Myanmari individual army officials who are responsible for the atrocities of the Myanmari army? My final point is about the news that there is an island where 100,000 Rohingya refugees would be moved. That is an initiative of Bangladesh. 60 kilometers from the coast there is an island. You have to imagine: your house will be burned down, you will be killed, you will be raped and you will be dumped on an uninhabited island. This island floods regularly, has no infrastructure and is unsuitable to accommodate 100,000 people. Does the Minister know this news? If this plan continues, are he and the government prepared to take responsibility to include Rohingya refugees in the Netherlands; at invitation as the government's policy also suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you for the supplementary questions, I say to Mr Kuzu. In fact, I had not yet given an answer in respect of the wrongdoings. Let me make that up to you. It is true that the fact-finding committee has little or no access to Myanmar, making it very difficult to determine exactly what is happening. But there are talks with the Rohingya arriving in Bangladesh from Myanmar. Their stories are documented. There is, therefore, documentation at the moment, precisely to ensure that the puzzle can be laid in the future and there can also be prosecution where there is sufficient evidence against individuals. The Netherlands also follows Indonesia's initiatives where Rohingya's are concerned. The Indonesian Foreign Minister is very active in this area and has good contacts with Myanmar's civilian government. The Netherlands has clearly indicated to Indonesia that we offer support where that can and where that helps. As requested, we do. We don't get in their way, because too many channels don't help either. We have put Indonesia in the lead in this and, if necessary, once again, we join. As far as more far-reaching sanctions are concerned, that falls into the same palette. If we see in the region that there is a need to use sanctions more strongly, if we are to be clear about whom we will not run away from them. Indonesia knows that, too. Finally, the island. I've seen the story come across in the media. We do not yet have any facts suggesting that this will actually happen. This also applies: where refugees are accommodated, it is up to the country itself. Of course, this should be done in accordance with international conventions. An island that floods a few times a year does not seem to me to comply with those treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA. Oh, sorry, Mr. Van Ojik. The minister has to come back. You're gonna have to get to the interrupting microphone a little quick. Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Oh, sorry. I'm gonna have to get used to it, but you never know, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	I should have known I had to be quick, Mr. Chairman. We all share the feeling of disgust and, in a sense, of powerlessness, as Mr Kuzu quite rightly points out. The Netherlands already does a lot. I wanted to ask the Minister the following. We'll be in the United Nations Security Council in less than three weeks. Wouldn't that be a forum and a position to allow the Netherlands just to put a little bit on top of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	Sure. That is also one of the intentions. Indonesia also knows that. We have also offered: we are sitting there, which can be a platform to raise an issue like this actively. That happens all the time, by the way. It is not the case that the current composition of the UN Security Council does not. The Netherlands will continue to do so if we are in it, where the current participants are already doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I'll take a look around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Now I'm allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Now you can leave. Thank you.
