ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is a 30-member debate on imports of natural gas. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Around 1785 gas was first used in the Netherlands. That was coal gas back then, a precursor of natural gas. That was the time when Mozart lived and composed, and the Netherlands did not exist yet but was the Republic of the Seven Provinces. We are now almost two and a half centuries further and it is high time to finally say goodbye to gas as fuel. We now know that the amount of gas is not infinite, not in the Netherlands and not outside the Netherlands, that gas is an extremely powerful greenhouse gas, much more powerful than CO, and that gas extraction causes major problems in the gas extraction areas, for example in Groningen. Gas is energy from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. We need to switch to other heat and energy sources. We need to switch to energy from the 21st century. But what does the Minister do? It is and remains focused on gas. He wants us to import natural gas. That sounds easier than it is, by the way. That other natural gas has a different composition which means that we have to build large power stations to change that composition. This is done by adding nitrogen to make the gas suitable for Dutch use. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about billions of euros that we are actually throwing away, about short-term investments. The future is gasless. It is a very bad idea to invest money now in those changing installations that we will have to break down again. Every euro we put into gas technology is too much. The same applies to the construction of a new pipeline to transport gas alongside the pipelines of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. This money must be spent on the development of renewable energy sources. This means that the Party for Animals also wants the newly discovered gas field over Schiermonnikoog not to be exploited. Mr. Chairman. Investing in gas is like a taxi company replacing petrol cars not by electric cars on solar power but by steam cars fired on coal. With his policy, the Minister gives the impression of being an eighteenth-century man lost in the 21st century. Mr. Chairman. The answer to the question of what we are going to do if we are to reduce our gas production is: we are going to do everything we can for a gasless future, build new houses without gas connection. There has to be a plan to get older houses off the gas. Mr President, this cabinet wants us to have gas by 2020. A quote: "The steps for this need to be taken already. If we wait too long, we'll miss the boat. Then we don't follow up on agreements we made for our children and grandchildren. We will have to get rid of fossil addiction in the Netherlands." This is not from the election programme of the Party of Animals, but these are the words of Secretary of State Dijksma. It's time those words got meaning. We must say goodbye to the eighteenth century and dare to take the step towards the 21st. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I just said the minister looked like an eighteenth-century man lost in the 21st century. Not everything from the eighteenth century is bad. I mentioned Mozart. In order to make the step to the twenty-first century easier for the minister without homesickness to his own eighteenth century, I would like to offer him a Mozart CD. Through my colleague Ouwehand the minister has already built up a jealous collection of metal CDs. I would like to add these. I chose the Mozart Requiem, and that's no coincidence. That has nothing to do with the Minister, by the way. I wish him a lot of healthy and happy years and if I see him blazing there, he will succeed. But the extraction of gas must end and that requiem is why I would like to devote it to the extraction of gas. I wish the Minister many years and very few years of gas extraction. I know it has to be through the messenger, but since it's a gift, I'd like to do something unparliamentary and give it to the minister myself, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	We're gonna do that through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	You're not gonna make an exception right now, not even for a present?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	Then I'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	But we'll make sure it gets to the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'll keep checking from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	You can see it happening right in front of you. Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: the Minister is clinging to two thoughts. Today, De Nederlandsche Bank issued the warning that it may not yield any return if it invests in fossil mining infrastructure and that it has to be written off early. Does the Minister share the concerns of De Nederlandsche Bank about this? Then I read in the news that the British regulator has already authorised the pipeline we are talking about today to flow in two directions, but I am not yet clear where the costs for this operation in the Netherlands are going to fall. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the cost of gas is rising for the citizens. Where do these costs end up? I also read in the newspaper that the NAM wants to leave the entire gas network that we have under the North Sea. Is that right? To what extent do they do that? What is the consequence of this for the Netherlands and the current Dutch gas supply? We have seen before that Shell has just taken over British Gas. As a result, Shell also has an interest in bringing that gas to the Netherlands. How does the Minister look at that gas sector, where you see changing movements? How is that going to develop? Mr Wassenberg already quoted what the Secretary of State said, but this Minister also has a phasing-out strategy in his agenda. So, as far as I'm concerned, there are contradictory movements in that. The same conflicting movements can be seen around Schiermonnikoog. There was previously a majority motion of the Chamber that said: no gas extraction at or on Schiermonnikoog. Now there is a find of possibly 6 billion cuub. We all know that the Netherlands provides gas for about three months. Are we going to continue with this or is there a phasing-out strategy for this? In general terms, I would like an answer from the Minister to the main question: how are we going to ensure that we do not have beached assets, that we do not invest in infrastructure for which everyone will have to return to the stock market? What are the current costs? What is the situation with Shell, which apparently goes back into the gas in the North Sea, and with the NAM, which withdraws from it? I understand the Minister's gonna say that companies can make their own decisions. But the Netherlands and the Dutch taxpayer have invested tremendously in the gas roundabout. The Court's investigation showed that this was around 8 billion. That is why I would like to know from the Minister how he looks at further investments in gas infrastructure, which keep the Netherlands still longer in the fossil age, while we have all said, from left to right, that we need to get to the clean age as quickly as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You only have to walk around in Groningen for a minute to see that the Netherlands has to get rid of the gas. I was there last Saturday doing some action with the gas extraction crews in Appingedam. They are proud, tough people who stand up for their community, but also people who have incredibly much pain, sadness and anger from the gas extraction. People with tears in their homes, but also with tears in their souls and tears in communities, feeling totally irrelevant to this government. I saw a 85-year-old man crying. I saw a mother with two little kids who had to pack all her stuff, because her house wasn't strong enough for an earthquake. But one day before she had to move, a letter came in that it was still postponed, that everything had to be unpacked. I have quoted him many times, and I will quote him many times. It's Reverend Jitse van der Wal. I never expected to quote a vicar so often, but he said it so beautifully: as a vicar I learned to curse in Groningen, so much injustice. I find that incredibly beautiful and incredibly painful. Groningen is a scare. Gas extraction is a scare. We need to get rid of the gas extraction. Groningen's horror also scares many other national and international communities, such as the Green Heart, where gas extraction is still planned, but also Schiermonnikoog. The two previous speakers have already referred to this. We've got reports that there's a possibility that gas will be extracted there. Again communities that live between fear and trembling or also in their area a situation like in Groningen can arise. Also internationally we continue to win if the Netherlands continues to win gas. For the people of Groningen, for the people of the Green Heart, for the people of Schiermonnikoog, but also for other countries where gas is being extracted. What are we gonna do? How do we get off the gas as soon as possible? In the letter and the report we're discussing today, it doesn't seem like we're quitting gas extraction, but as if we're simply moving the problem. The Netherlands remains a fossil country. This minister will no longer be able to stop extracting gas. I loved how my colleague Frank Wassenberg gave a gift to the minister. I really want to compliment him on his speech, because I thought he was making a very nice speech. Perhaps the Minister can return a gift to the Chamber by saying, as a final commitment, that there will be a real phasing-out plan for gas extraction as soon as possible. That would be a very nice gift to the Netherlands and to our neighbouring countries where we buy gas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr President, thank you. It is good that we are talking today about the piece of TNO, from exporter to importer. Given all the developments in Groningen, this is of great importance to our country. TNO outlines various scenarios in which we become dependent on gas imports in the short or long term. I have a few questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs. According to the Minister, what are the import volumes for the coming years? To what extent does the find of the gas field on the North Sea above Schiermonnikoog offer the possibility to become less dependent on imports from abroad? Does the Minister consider it real that Russia could turn the gas tap towards the West and thus towards us? What impact would that have on the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to what extent there are opportunities to import more high-caloric gas from Norway. After all, these are our friends in Europe. Perhaps they should also make investments when we would like to import more gas. I would also like us to move on to sustainable alternatives as soon as possible, but we also know that we will still need the gas for a while. That is why I would like real answers to these real questions from the CDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven on behalf of D66. Mr Bosman has to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I know Mr Bosman. He is eager to express his point of view. Today we have a debate on a TNO report on whether the Netherlands will become a net importer. I can be very short. In recent years, we have outlined very clearly the playing field here in many debates on the energy transition and on gas extraction. As far as D66 is concerned, Groningen has put us all in a huge joint challenge alongside the great challenge we already have on the basis of climate change. Groningen's problem is a national one. It has nothing to do with a regional problem. It is a national problem for which we feel a national responsibility together. Yes, gas is the cleanest of fossil fuels, but due to the situation in Groningen and the climate change situation, we need to get rid of it as soon as possible. D66 is therefore in favour of not investing too much in a transition from one fossil fuel to another, but actually taking steps together to make the transition to a structural, clean energy supply. The sustainable energy market is under development. That is why we must be careful not to invest in a transition from one fossil fuel to another. Because the import of gas also means that you import gas whose environmental pressure is even higher than that of the gas you get up close. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that too. The most important thing is of course: what you don't consume, you don't have to pump up, whether you don't do it here or elsewhere. Mr Wassenberg referred to a relocation of the problem, or perhaps it was Mrs Bergkamp. We need to do as little as possible there. What we can do to reduce our consumption and to switch to real alternatives as soon as possible is, in my opinion, the challenge of the coming years. I found the Minister's letter clear on these points. I would like to thank him for that clear letter. Of course, there is a great challenge for the next cabinet. I can also imagine that he does not find it his place to give a lot of answers here. But if this has been the last debate with the Minister, you never know, I should like to thank him very much for the debates. They were fierce at times and they were intense, but I've always appreciated the exchange of views. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mrs Van Tongeren has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	I have one rather specific question about gas extraction. In a motion dated 16 June 2016, the Chamber ruled against trial drilling and the extraction of gas at Schiermonnikoog. D66 also voted for it at the time. I was curious about the position of D66 at the moment, because of course there is another gas extraction near Schiermonnikoog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mrs van Tongeren is sometimes tempted to put on the table subjects that are a bit off the edge of the subject of the debate. I remember that we had a long discussion on the wording of this motion at that time, because I believe that you need to ensure that legislation is predictable. This is important for the inhabitants and also for the companies. I believe that we supported this motion because it led to an amendment to the Mining Act. I believe that we should continue to lay down the framework. These frameworks also apply to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mrs Van Veldhoven has offered me the opportunity to discuss mining in the Netherlands as well as exports. Are you going to import or do you need to get more out of your own little fields? This is one, so this is at the heart of the discussion whether we are going to import or use more of our own gas. So I think it's up to you. And it just says, "is against test drilling and the extraction of gas at Schiermonnikoog." Is D66 still of that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	This debate is about imports from Russia. I think we have put our name under this motion for many good reasons. I see no reason to deviate from that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you very much. I call Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Cars already run on hydrogen or electricity. We charge smartphones with electricity from sun or wind. Meanwhile, we heat our houses with geothermal or residual heat. That's perfectly normal for us, but ten years ago, you'd be made a fool of if you did. Our energy supply is changing. Our energy supply is becoming ever cleaner, but it must also remain affordable and reliable. The network operators know when to replace the gas networks in our country. It is then up to the local authorities, together with the network operators, to see how the network can be replaced. It could be heat, hydrogen or all-electric. By making choices in this at a smart time, we keep our energy supply reliable, affordable and clean. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about implications for gas extraction in the future. The Minister has already indicated that he will leave this on his successor's behalf. I would like to thank the Minister for his wise words, but above all for his continued commitment to the Netherlands and for the policy pursued to prepare the Netherlands for a reliable, affordable and clean energy supply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you very much. I see Mrs Van Tongeren has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	Yes. My question concerns the following. The Dutch Bank has come with a warning. The bank's done that before, but it's doing it again today. They say, "Watch out for investments in fossil infrastructure." The original reason for this debate, on these grounds, was Mr Wassenberg's request for the pipeline to England and the question of whether it should flow in the other direction. That will cost a lot of money; we will soon hear from the Minister how much. How does the VVD look at possible beached assets, money that you invest but doesn't pay off because it is written off again very quickly, for example with a pipeline of 470 kilometres below the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	You can use a pipeline for a lot of things. So it's just a question of whether that's a beached asset. Maybe you could use it for something else. But with this, we anticipate what might happen in a future cabinet. With all due respect, I find the debate immeasurable. We need to see what's about to happen and what ambitions the cabinet has. Of course, the VVD also looks at what is useful to invest in, but you also have companies for that. People are still busy, because we are talking about the fossil industry. It won't end tomorrow, we'll be working on that for a few more years. It is a transition and in that transition we will have to think very carefully about not blocking things, because that has the same negative effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	This debate is very timely, because the English regulator has authorised that pipeline to be modified. Like Mr Bosman, I am curious to see where the costs will end, because he too says: it must remain affordable. Will the Dutch gas user pay more for adjustments to the gas network there? And if so, how much? Does Mr Bosman have any idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	There's gonna be a new cabinet in a minute. That cabinet has signed the ambition of Paris. It has great ambitions. I almost dare say that this may be the greenest cabinet ever. Let's wait for that. Let us take a look at what is happening and what ambitions and consequences result from it. That's an important moment, and I think we should take that space, too. The Minister himself said that it was awkward to have that discussion now. I personally agree. I'd rather talk about it when we know the ambitions of the next cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you very much. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had not asked for a report from TNO. Nor was there any prior consultation with us on the information contained in the report. That would have been reasonable in itself, because the Ministry of Economic Affairs has a lot of knowledge about all kinds of things concerning gas imports, gas consumption and gas exports, so that might have been obvious. I sometimes have the idea that this report uses some older data than the data we have at our disposal. It is said that at some point there will be a transition from exports to imports and that this may be the case rather than the one that was first taken into account. We know that's true. There's also a few things in there that just aren't right. From the first day this report came out, there was a lot of publicity. I received an offer letter which contained some things that were formulated differently than in the report itself. So I can't do that much with it. Let me leave that report aside for a moment and address the points raised by the spokesmen. It is good that we realize that of all the energy we use in our country, whether for electric bikes, cars, factories, homes or offices, all you need energy for is 40% gas at the moment. This means that society is currently running on gas. We are not talking about the year 1800 and so much, the time of Mozart or so; that's all talk. It's just the Netherlands in the year 2017. That runs for 40% on gas. Without gas the factories do not run, the offices cannot function and the whole society stands still. We can now pretend that gas is a dirty word, that it cannot be invested any more and that it is only about how we can get rid of it as quickly as possible, but we must do so wisely. We need to make that transition. The cabinet is very ambitious in that. At the beginning of this cabinet period, we had just over 4% of renewable energy. This should be 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. I think we're definitely gonna make it to the last one. Maybe we'll cross that line. Then we're at 16%, and right now, 40% of everything is gas. So we owe it to the people of the Netherlands to ensure that we keep the matter going and that we make that transition from fossil energy to renewable energy wisely. That's exactly what the Cabinet is doing. We have set the targets for the short term, until the year 2023, as I have just set them. We're gonna do it and we're gonna get it. For the longer term, until 2050, we said we want to get rid of the gas completely. How we are going to do that is in the Energy Agenda. That Energy Agenda is currently specified in the form of transition paths. Those transition paths indicate exactly how we're going to get rid of that gas in the period from now until 2050. Homework for that is almost done. If the new cabinet is there, it is ready and then the new cabinet can take decisions on that basis. And then the process that we have initiated can be continued in a careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	The Minister is making it a caricature again. He says 40% of the Netherlands run on gas, but that can't remain the status quo? The cabinet also knows that eventually we have to get rid of the gas. The Minister spoke about renewable energy targets, but he also knows that the share of renewable energy has increased from 5.8% to 5.9% and that this is really very insufficient to reach the target rate by 2020. To get rid of the gas, you can start with a ban on the construction of gas pipes in new buildings. You can start with the new houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	Who makes a caricature out of something? Mr Wassenberg says that I am someone from the eighteenth century who was lost in the 21st century. What I said was that 40% of our total economy is on gas. So, if someone makes a caricature of something, it's Mr. Wassenberg. Mr Wassenberg says that you went from 5.8% to 5.9%. When I get tired of something in this business, and it doesn't happen often, it's like this kind of comment. From 5.8% to 5.9%, while we are building the five largest wind farms in the world at sea off the Dutch coast and we have said that once they have been built in five years, we are going to build seven that are all bigger. There is a huge transition to renewable energy. We started at the beginning of this cabinet period with just over 4% renewable energy. In the year 2020, we have to reach 14% and I predict that in the year 2023 we will be above 16%, perhaps even substantially above 16%. So we've started a huge movement. We're putting a lot of money into it. We have received broad support for this in society through the Energy Agreement. This is also supported here in the Chamber and Mr Wassenberg says: yes, from 5.8% to 5.9%. That's another caricature. I don't understand why that happens. While we are working with all our strength and success on one of our most important tasks, that transition to renewable energy, Mr Wassenberg is making this a caricature. The importance of this and of what society is getting out of it completely escapes me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	The Minister disqualified his own policy. I think he's doing the right thing, because he says we're at 40% gas now. I think so! After five years of government policy, that should have been a little less so as far as I am concerned. In fact, the Minister states that there is not enough pressure on the gas-free system. I'm sorry to make a caricature of those numbers, but from 5.8% to 5.9% isn't something I make up. Those are the official figures. The Minister's saying that there are all wind farms in the pipeline is very, very good. In absolute terms, renewable energy has been added, but the proportion of petajoule non-sustainable energy - fossil energy - has increased 13 times more in absolute numbers. So that little bit of sustainability that comes with it is destroyed by the share fossil and that 40% is far too much. That should have been much less after five years of cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	"That little bit sustainable that comes with it," while last year we made 9 billion grant commitments to build a new infrastructure for sustainable development, while this year we make 12 billion grant commitments to build a sustainable infrastructure and produce renewable energy. It is really a ridiculous remark by Mr Wassenberg, with all due respect to him, when he says that 40% proves that the cabinet did not do well. What makes him think that? If at the beginning of this cabinet period it was 50% or 45%, then it is 40% good. That 40% is related to the fact that the cabinet has launched a movement, supported by the Chamber, supported by the whole field, supported by NGOs and supported by all energy producers, in order to reach just over 4% of renewable energy in the period between 2013 and 2023. With this growth of the share of renewable energy, the share of fossil sinks, including gas. So the picture he's sketching just doesn't add up. I also don't understand why a Member of Parliament would like to paint such an image.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	As you know, I am an archaeologist and I love talking about the past incredibly, but at the moment I sympathize with Mr Wassenberg that some things should really belong to the past. You gave a nice list of what is going to happen, but now for a specific reason. Isn't it true that there's still no plan, no real extraction plan? If the answer is still yes, will you, as a farewell gift to the Chamber, promise that that plan will come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u38	Ms. Beckerman is interested in the present, although she is an archaeologist, she says. That's very nice. What you see in the present is that in a period of many decades a large gas extraction has been built in Groningen, in this cabinet period gas extraction in Groningen has been reduced by 55%. That is a huge difference, and this has made an important contribution to solving the major problems there. More needs to be done, but at least this has already happened. Now Mrs Beckerman is asking for a plan to phase out the use of gas. That plan is almost complete, and that plan has two layers. The first layer is the Energy Agenda. I don't know if you've ever bothered to read it. It's a piece for the period between 2023 and 2050, and it says that all homes in the Netherlands are now connected to gas, that's the legacy of the past; by 2050 they all have to be done with it, so we have to get rid of that gas at an average rate of 200,000 homes a year. We're gonna make that for each other. That is the line set out in the Energy Agenda. I also wrote in that Energy Agenda that, in order to achieve the goals of the Energy Agenda, we have divided it into five different fields where things have to happen. One is industry, another is mobility, and another is what we are generally talking about, namely the use of gas in households, in offices and in smaller companies. We made a transition path for that. This means that we have worked out exactly how we can achieve that target by 2050 between now and 2050. So that's the plan Mrs Beckerman is asking for. That plan, I believe, can be completed before the end of this cabinet period, and that will therefore be used by the next cabinet to base decision-making and to set it in motion in the implementation process. The next cabinet, I think, will be in four years, because that's the normal period before that. This means that the next cabinet will not make it all the way, because that cabinet is from 2017 to 2021, when we have already started everything for the year 2023. So the next cabinet will also start to set longer-term rates, set new targets again and, like the current cabinet, will have to try to achieve that difficult transition with a lot of effort and with the utmost support from the field and from the Chamber. I don't think it would be wise if you were faced with such a great task, to ridicule that transition from fossil to sustainable, and to talk about 5.8% and 5.9% and talk about someone from the eighteenth century who was lost in the twenty-first century. That really doesn't help anyone in the Netherlands at all. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Veldhoven have said that we should not invest in fossil energy and that we should not invest in the use of gas. I think that it would be very unwise not to invest in the extraction and use of gas, because 40% of the whole of the Netherlands is running on gas and gas, while it is being phased out, will continue to be of interest to the Netherlands for decades to come. We will have to ensure that it all goes on in a reasonable way. But large investments in gas are avoided as much as possible. We have equipment in the Netherlands that is suitable for Gronings, low-caloric gas. We could convert all that to equipment suitable for high-caloric gas. If you do that, you will remove a whole piece of the demand for Groninger gas. The cabinet does not do that because this conversion costs EUR 9 billion. That would be 9 billion invested in it, whereas we would prefer the money to be invested in the transition to renewable energy. So that's an example of an investment we're not doing. Another example is the following. In the Netherlands we have seven large factories that run on low-caloric gas. We could rebuild them to run them on high-caloric gas. We haven't decided; not yet. Maybe the next cabinet will, but we didn't decide. That's gonna cost another 150 million, and you're gonna put that back in fossil, while you'd rather invest in sustainable. Another example is the construction of a nitrogen plant in Groningen. You could do that. That's gonna cost 450 million. That's investing in fossil again. We didn't decide to do that. So where we have to invest in gas to keep the country going, we do, but where there are alternatives and it's better not to, we don't. I think that is a very careful way of doing things in the past cabinet period, a way of doing things that is not really an alternative either. Mr. Chairman. The transition from gas to sustainable is also about the fact that in the Netherlands all houses are connected to the gas. For the new houses, we want to get rid of it. You have two options for that. One possibility is to say that a new house must be connected to gas, unless the municipality has said: we do not do so in that area because we have an alternative there. That's one possibility. That's what I call the "yes, unless" policy for new gas connections. Mrs Van Tongeren has come up with a bill in which she says: you do not connect to gas, unless there is a special reason for that. That's the "no, unless" policy it advocates. In both cases, where there is a reasonable alternative to gas, we must proceed with this as soon as possible. That's what we both want to achieve. I think the cost of alternatives is higher, significantly higher than when you use gas. In the environment itself where a house should not be connected, a government must bear responsibility for this. People don't get gas, so they get something else. How's that working out for you? How much is that? Is that what we're gonna do? A local decision has to be made. In the Energy Agenda, we have strongly emphasised local decision-making, provincial decision-making and regional decision-making. I think that the proposal, as I have done to the Chamber, fits in very well with that, but I leave it to the next cabinet, of course. My proposal will be dealt with by this Chamber with the next cabinet, including Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal. I therefore believe that this discussion will come back at a later date. Then the lead to Great Britain. I don't understand the cost of that kind of plumbing. I know that we have a very great interest in having a liquid gas market like the Netherlands, a very well-functioning gas market. If gas is needed, it will be delivered. It's from Russia, it's from Norway and it's from Groningen. It comes from small fields on the Dutch country, it comes from small fields on the North Sea. There's gas coming from all sides and it's going into the country and it's going out of the country again. There is a good market functioning in terms of the technique of the functioning of the market: we have ensured that there is supply and demand, that there are prices and that there is trade. But we also made sure that there is infrastructure, so gas leaves the Netherlands from all sides and goes to the Netherlands. What exactly is the cost of the pipes, whether there should be another Nord Stream 2 after Nord Stream 1 and whether that is profitable, must be the companies that invest in them. As far as gas to or from Great Britain is concerned, too, companies have to break up. The cost of these investments is ultimately borne by the gas customers. Those customers still have a great interest in this over the next decades. If the gas extraction in Groningen is reducing as much as it is currently reducing, if the small fields in the Netherlands are slowly depleted and even if less gas comes from the small fields in the North Sea, the gas has to be supplied in a different way. Part of it comes directly to the Netherlands. Part of it goes through Germany; then it goes from Germany through the Netherlands to Great Britain and it can also go back. That is all part of the market. The costs involved must be judged by those who have to make the decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u39	In this case, Gasunie has a plan for the import of British natural gas. Gasunie is 100% state-owned. So it seems to me to be something that fits in with government policy. The government's policy is also always: keeping a close eye on affordability. Not only GroenLinks but also De Nederlandsche Bank says that the depreciation period for investments in fossil infrastructure is getting shorter, because we all want to get rid of it. The depreciation period for this type of infrastructure is usually 40 years to 50 years. We'll be well over 2050. I can imagine that the Minister may not be able to answer this question on the spot in a 30-member debate, but I would like, perhaps in a letter, to have an answer to the question of how Gasunie is looking at this matter of the reduced depreciation period and the conversion of these costs across all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u40	Gasunie is a company. This means that the company's decisions are taken in a business manner, at a distance from the government. Gasunie, together with others, is responsible for ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place and that the necessary actions are taken to ensure that the gas supply of the Netherlands, the 40% that our country is all about, comes together. Gasunie, together with others, should consider the infrastructure needed for this, such as an infrastructure link with Norway. We have a gas connection and electricity connections with Norway and connections with Russia and we have LNG terminals in different locations in the Netherlands. There are all kinds of facilities to ensure that the Netherlands is a kind of spider in a web as far as gas is concerned. This means that even if we in the Netherlands win a much less 55% reduction in the amount of gas in Groningen, we will not get in trouble, because that gas market and that infrastructure are there. That's fine. The companies that have to decide on investment must do so in particular. They're responsible for that themselves. They are wise enough to choose the right depreciation periods. They're also under surveillance. That means they're going to take another look at it, but I don't feel like sitting on their seats at all. I do not therefore need to write a separate letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u41	Finally, on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u42	I am sure the Minister agrees with me that state participations are not just companies that happen to be owned by the State. We have state participations for a specific government interest, an interest that we all have. If it is a matter of national importance for that company to see for itself what it is doing, then I wonder why we have Gasunie as a State participation. Isn't that quite clear to safeguard a Dutch state interest? To what extent is this done by building a pipeline or by enabling a reversal in a pipeline, which makes it possible to increase costs for the Dutch citizen? I think it is particularly helpful for a company like Shell, which has just taken over British Gas. I do therefore believe that the State also has a responsibility to look into this if this leads to an increase in costs for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u43	I have no reason to doubt the diligence of the decision-making process at Gasunie. I think that we know very well what the long term is, what the short term is, what should not be done about investments, what should be done about investments, what should be done about payback periods, what has added value in investments and what does not have added value. I have no doubt about that. Mrs Van Tongeren is coming here in a 30-member debate following a TNO report saying that the gas is going to flow in two directions and that she wants to know what the costs are. But there is no reason for me to say now: there must be something wrong with the Gasunie; let us find out what is going on and share that information with each other. We have organised the matter in the Netherlands in such a way that certain things are entirely the responsibility of the government, while other things are the responsibility of companies. I think that we have organised this in such a way that the right decisions are made in every place. As long as I have no reason to doubt it, I am not going to investigate it separately. Let me take a look at the various points raised by the spokesmen. Mr Wassenberg mentioned the year 1785 and said that I want to stay focused on gas and gas imports. I've already gone into that. Mr Wassenberg and others spoke about Schiermonnikoog. I am not talking about the Wadden Islands or the Wadden Sea itself, nor about the coastal zone directly above the Wadden Islands, but about the area further up, north of the Netherlands, and what is going to happen there at sea. We have legislation for every place where the Netherlands is responsible to deal with applications for gas extraction in an agreed way. Above Schiermonnikoog there has been a search drill with a permit. We'll get results from that. If there is an application to win gas, we will test it by policy and by what rules we have drawn up. These rules have all been tightened up recently in relation to the part we are talking about and also in relation to the involvement of other governments. We will apply them all neatly to such an application and then take a decision on it. It seems very strange to me now, ignoring what we have all laid down in the law on procedures and what we have recently changed, to say: we are not going to win gas over Schiermonnikoog. Isn't that unthinkable when you take yourself as a legislator seriously? We, as legislator, have recently laid down something in the amended Mining Act and we have had many debates on how to do it all and how to involve the provinces and the municipalities that something is not allowed in the Wadden Sea and in the Wadden Islands and not in the North Sea coastal zone above the Wadden Islands. Then there are other areas, for example the part I am talking about. I find it unthinkable to say that no gas should be produced there. Whoever says that actually makes a caricature of themselves. Then you don't take your own work seriously here in the Chamber as co-legislator. Mrs Van Tongeren says I have two thoughts. I don't have two thoughts at all. I'm hunching on one thought. That one thought of mine is that we need to make the transition to renewable energy. That's what I'm interested in. I want to do it responsibly. So I'm not gonna do anything that makes the Dutch houses cold, so people can't prepare their food anymore and the offices get cold. I'm not gonna do anything to stop the factories. I'm not gonna do anything that puts our economy at risk. I'm gonna make that transition. I'm going to make my contribution to the transition to renewable energy, but I'm going to do it responsibly. That's the one thought I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'd like to admit that the Minister has a firm footstep and rarely limps, but we were talking about facts. The Minister talks about keeping households warm and getting the potatoes cooked, but the Minister and I both know that the gas that may come from Norway and England, but also the gas that is extracted above the Wadden Islands, is not the gas with which we get the potatoes cooked in the Netherlands. So if we actually keep it: that gas is not a substitute for the gas that households are working on right now. With the Minister, I have the ambition to stop the use of Groningen gas as soon as possible. Over the past four years, I have made repeated proposals to do so a little faster than the Minister intends. I believe that we will continue to differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u45	If I'd just talked about preparing food in the houses and heating the houses, but I didn't. I said that 40% of our energy supply runs on gas. This is partly Groninger gas, partly high caloric small field gas from the Netherlands, partly high caloric small field gas from the North Sea, partly gas from Russia and partly gas from Norway. All this together is what gas is used in the Netherlands. We don't have two thoughts. We want to maintain our employment, our whole order in the Netherlands and our economy in a broad sense, and we want to make the transition to renewable energy. We don't do that by messing around. We first laid that down in the coalition agreement, then in the energy agreement and then in the Energy Agenda. Now we're working out the transition paths. That's the course we're on. I can tell you that what we have in mind and commitment of the good people working in the Ministry is to a large extent focused on the transition to renewable energy. At the same time, people are aware, as I do, that we have a responsibility for the people who live, live, work and move in this country. We have to keep that going. We'll make sure we both do. The aim is the transition to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u47	I have congratulated the Minister before, and I would like to do that again calmly for the approach to wind at sea. But in my opinion, it is clear from the fact that there are also small fields on land and extractions are higher here and there than people expect, while further on wind comes on land. These people experience two directions. We must obviously have gas extraction, for example under Woerden, but also in Groningen and Drenthe small fields are tapped, and we must obviously have wind farms. The discussion that the Minister and I have had over the last four years is that it is very difficult to explain to citizens that we have to go to clean energy, but that their Wadden Island or their municipality will also have gas extraction. That's what I meant to say with the limp on two thoughts. The population is much easier to get along with if there is a clear direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u48	Both of Mrs Van Tongeren's points are not correct. First of all, wind on land. We have concluded the energy agreement with Greenpeace, Nature & Environment, the energy-producing companies, the trade unions, the employers and with everyone who is involved in one way or another. In this energy agreement we have set out how many windmills on land and at sea we want and how much energy savings we want to achieve. All those things we agreed on. Then I agreed with each province how many windmills on land there will be in that province. The provinces themselves have designated where the windmills are to be located in the province. I'm sending in on the execution; nothing more and nothing less. I do more when it comes to wind at sea. We are trying to extend and extend the agreements we have made about wind at sea. We did that in the Energy Agenda. It says that within five years we are going to realize 700 MW at sea five times and then we are going to realize seven times 1,000 MW of wind at sea. So that's where we shifted the course, but we didn't do anything extra for wind on land; absolutely not. At the moment, I am trying very hard to get the agreements we have made, but not more than that. Then, as far as the small fields are concerned. I very much object that we are constantly pretending that these small fields are causing earthquakes to affect the people around them. That is absolutely not the case. Why are there earthquakes in Groningen? That was the largest gas field in the world at the time, we thought. It's a very large gas field. If you get a lot of gas out of that, you get big differences in the subsurface. The most relevant effect of this is that we have faced the earthquake problem in recent years. By "we," I mean especially the people in Groningen, because of course they only suffer. In that large field, movements lead to earthquakes. The small fields are very much smaller than the Groninger field. If you get differences there, it doesn't lead to earthquakes. The SodM is very involved in that. He analyzed that, just like others. Each application shall be re-examined. Those risks are incomparable to the risk we run in Groningen. We should not constantly pretend that all these small fields are just as problematic in the slipstream of the Groningen problem. They're absolutely not. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about investment in infrastructure. That's what I've been working on. I went into what Mrs Beckerman said about Schiermonnikoog. I told you how to get rid of the gas. I also said what form the phasing-out plan, which she wanted as a gift from me, gets. Mrs Mulder asked about imports and their size. At the moment there are imports and exports. They run through each other. In certain periods, weeks or sometimes several months, we even have more imports than exports. In the years to come, there will be more going out on balance than there will be. We have reduced the extraction in Groningen from 48 billion cubic metres in 2012 to 21.6 billion cubic metres now. The small fields on land are slowly becoming exhausted. The same is the case in the North Sea. The moment will then come closer that we will import more than we can export, so that we can cover our own use that needs import. When exactly, I don't know. It depends on what's going on. It may be the case in a few years. Then where does the gas come from? We do not know exactly, because the Norwegian and Russian gas come together in Germany. From Germany it goes our way. What's in that tube is Russian and Norwegian gas, I don't know. We can try to figure it out as best we can. The ratio of Norwegian gas to Russian gas is about 18:6, or 3:1. If there is 18 billion coming from Norway, the order of 6 billion comes from Russia. That's about how the proportions are. Mrs Mulder spoke of Schiermonnikoog. She asked what would happen if Russia turned off the gas tap. If we had just continued to obtain gas in Groningen, and if we were to make the best use of the gas that can still be extracted from the small fields and the North Sea, we would be able to postpone the moment of import more and more. We could try to focus our imports mainly on Norway, although the connection with Norway is at its border, so there's not much play in that anymore. We would then be able to shift the reduction of gas from Russia to the future. Meanwhile, we are making a transition to renewable energy, so Russia's dependence is further away and, to a lesser extent, the case. We do not, because for reasons of the safety of people in Groningen we wanted to reduce gas extraction. We did. This means that the Russian gas has an increasing significance for the Netherlands. Over the years, Russia has been a stable supplier. It has never, in any circumstances, threatened not to supply the gas. It itself has a great interest in the supply of gas. So I am not very concerned about the supply of gas from Russia, also in view of the alternatives that exist. Suppose there's trouble, we could take down more LNG. We have a large terminal in Rotterdam, which is only used to a small extent. We could use more of those. I'm not so worried about Russia right now. As far as dependence is concerned, I think it is justified in the light of the Groningen problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u49	I fully agree with the Minister on the latter, because in recent years the CDA has also had the wish to go back as far as is realistic as possible in terms of gas consumption in Groningen. Therefore, the question of importing gas from Norway. I hear the Minister saying that this may already be a little bit on his limit. Then I think: you also don't want to become too dependent on a country like Russia. We've seen what happened in the last few years. So could the Minister perhaps see what else would be needed to be able to import more gas from Norway if he so wishes? I know the Norwegians have more gas available, but then it's obviously stuck on pipes and the like whether they can supply it. So perhaps the Minister would like to make that clear to us as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u50	Normally I'd like to do things like that, but now I don't think it's wise to do that. I do not think it is right to send a signal to Russia. They have never given reason to doubt the way they act as suppliers. The second is that we have built an infrastructure where gas can be delivered from different sides and gas can be supplied. This infrastructure works well and the entire market operation on the basis of that infrastructure is also working well. There are no bottlenecks. If there is a bottleneck somewhere, then there are also opportunities to catch that. If you're going to investigate what you can take extra from Norway if you kick out Russia, then I'm not going to send a signal that I don't want to give as a deep outgoing minister anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u51	Finally, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u52	I can imagine the latter, but the CDA Group would need to know what alternatives there are. I believe that this is a risk assessment that you could make as a Chamber and as a cabinet. So I'll present it to the new minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u53	He must have something to do, so I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u54	Here an optimism is expressed that it would all be finished, but at least that is not yet shared by the D66 Group. There's still a lot of work to be done, because we're still using a lot of gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u55	Oh, I thought you were talking about the cabinet formation, but that's not true, I understand now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u56	No, of course I would not discuss this with this Minister in this Chamber. Like I said, we're still using a lot of gas. We all agree that this is a major challenge, not only in relation to the situation in Groningen but also in relation to the climate. We can't just turn the switch off, turn off the stove or shut off the stove. The Minister is right about that, but what we don't consume doesn't have to be pumped up or imported. So they're working hard on that. For the gas that remains and that we would still have to import, the climate forecast counts. If you read the EBN report, which says that Russian gas causes eight times as much CO emissions as Dutch gas, then I wonder if that has nothing to do with a political desirability or non-wishfulness of Russian gas, how that plays into the trade-offs or in the policy options we have to prevent imported gas from having a very large carbon footprint that we really wouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u57	I think this is a relevant fact. I do not know about the losses in Russia and the losses in Norway and how to compare them exactly. I know that there is a European gas market and that the Netherlands is an important part of it, that Russian gas is absolutely necessary for Western Europe and that in the future, also in view of what is happening in Groningen, we were a very large supplier of Russian gas will gain a stronger position. That is why there is now a debate about doubling the link with Russia, Nord Stream 1. That's all playing. I believe that these various aspects of the final environmental impact, such as Mrs Van Veldhoven, who has now set an example, are very relevant. I can mention another example, namely the nitrogen plant that could possibly be built in Groningen. That whole process uses an awful lot of electricity. This, of course, has environmental effects. All this stuff is playing, but I'm trying to keep an eye on the main line. That is the main line that I do not have in mind that I want to move towards renewable energy. That is absolutely necessary. The second is that I want security in Groningen. The third is that I want to make the transition to renewable energy so that it is responsible and that we are not getting ourselves in trouble. This means that I have to ensure that gas is available in a responsible way in the interim period, during the transition period. Of this gas, I have found that there are both infrastructure and market forces. We can therefore, in fact, reduce in a responsible way in Groningen and move on to renewable energy. We can gradually reduce the use of fossil energy carriers, including gas, in the period up to 2050 and, if possible, to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u58	Finally, Mrs van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u59	I could totally go along with that. The minister says we're sending on the main line. I think that, in addition to the safety in Groningen, the main line, which we all say is that it is the CO-based steering of our energy policy. So it is relevant to have a good picture of the CO impact of one gas and another gas. That one gas is not the other gas, we are all aware of that, high caloric or low caloric, but there is also a completely different footprint. The example of the nitrogen plant also contributes to this, of course. It would therefore be very good if the Minister could perhaps see if the Chamber could be given an insight into the footprint of these different options, with possible options for action. It will no longer be up to this minister to draw any conclusions, but it may be useful for the Chamber to obtain that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u60	I think that would be helpful, too. Mrs Van Veldhoven talks about CO here, but she could have also talked about methane. That is, as she has said before, even more damaging to the climate than CO. This means that if gas is extracted, this will also contribute to the problem. So I think that in those transition paths, where we determine what we're going to do and how we're going to do it, and when we set out the transition policy, these are relevant facts to take into account. It seems to me also desirable that we have that information ourselves and that we share it with the Chamber. So I have no difference of opinion with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Then Mrs Van Veldhoven also talked about not investing in gas. I told you about what we do and what we don't do. She talked about the importance of reducing gas consumption. I know that she has an insight into what we all do: the 1.5% energy savings we spend a year on, the 100 petajoules extra energy savings we have agreed on, the agreements we have made with the energy-intensive industry, in order to save as much energy as possible there too. She won't want to hear from me what we've done for the built environment, about the demands we make on offices and what we do in the rental and buying sector. It is very important, if you want to make the transition to renewable energy as soon as possible, to reduce energy consumption first, and then what you still consume to be sustainable. That's gotta be the line. I share that with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Mr President, I hope that I have properly addressed what the spokesmen have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you very much. Let's see if there's a need for a second term. Mr Wassenberg certainly needs that, so I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had hoped that Mozart's Requiem would have put the Minister in a milder mood, but unfortunately that was not entirely the case. That's why we're making a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the amount of gas in the soil is finite, both in the Netherlands and abroad;]] [[noting that gas is an extremely powerful greenhouse gas, much stronger than CO;]] [[noting that gas extraction causes major problems in mining areas, such as in Groningen;]] [[Says that gas is a fuel from previous centuries that shouldn't have a place in the 21st century,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u63	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an investigation was carried out by a consortium of Hansa, Oranje-Nassau and EBN just above Schiermonnikoog;]] [[Whereas these drillings take place in the Wadden Islands and cause a great deal of social turmoil;]] [[Whereas there is also no administrative support in the region;]] [[Whereas a new Mining Act is in force which takes greater account of the environment, natural values, safety, mining damage and social support;]] [[speaks out against experimental drilling and the extraction of gas at Schiermonnikoog,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank warns about the risk of an investment risk in the fossil infrastructure in its report Time for Transition;]] [[invites the government to make investments through EBN only in line with the opinion of De Nederlandsche Bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-220]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u65	I call Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard a lot of bullshit in the Minister's reply, but I also heard a tame reaction from the Chamber. I think we all need a real green cabinet. Mr. Chairman. There's still a motion on my part. I'm just going to call it "goodbye, Minister Kamp." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extraction of gas should be phased out;]] [[calls on the Government, in the interest of the energy transition, to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands which will include the international dimension in addition to the extraction in Groningen and the small field policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Mulder does not need a second term. Neither does Mrs. Van Veldhoven. And Mr. Bosman does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr. Chairman. We sometimes pretend nothing happened, but this cabinet has halved the gas extraction in Groningen. We're building the biggest wind farms at sea. Sunparks shoot like mushrooms out of the ground. And industry is making a move to reduce energy consumption. Thanks to this cabinet, you can be proud of it. That gives a glimpse of the future, a future that I think will only become greener. So I am extremely proud of what has been achieved and I have hope for the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u70	That leads to questions, starting with Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yeah, special!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u72	"Philosophy" is a very beautiful word. I'm proud too, but I'm especially proud of the Groningers. I really want to mark that it makes me a little sad how many times you, but also repeats to the Minister that gas extraction has been reduced by the cabinet, by half. I'm so proud of the Groningers who took care of that themselves. My question to Mr Bosman is this: was it not the judge who reversed gas extraction and the minister who had to follow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u73	In my view, the decision was simply taken by the cabinet and thus the gas extraction has been reversed. I think that's crucial, too. In fact, the Minister has recently made choices to further reverse that gas extraction. I believe that sensible decisions have been taken, including within the framework of the measurement and control protocol. Those are all steps for improvement, so yes, I'm proud of that. And of course I understand what's going on in Groningen. Here I come, too. I see that too, and that is where we are taking steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u74	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u75	This is a bunch of bullshit. It was actually the judge. I've been here before the judge myself. I fought with a lot of other Groningers that that gas extraction had to be reduced and fortunately that was also successful. It has to go much further. You keep saying this. It's a beautiful fairy tale you apparently want to believe in, but I'm proud that the Groningers have managed to bring that gas extraction back, and I hope they can do it, that we can do it together, to reduce that gas extraction to zero as soon as possible. You may believe in the fairy tale that it was done by the cabinet. Then I hope you'll also believe in the fairy tale that we're going to zero as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u77	This is actually about the same theme. Is it not true that we all said that we should not have exceeded gas production after the great earthquake at Huizinge Kamerbreed? Furthermore, the cabinet has indeed decided, here and there in the back supported by the judge, to reduce gas extraction, but from that very first time, to which the halving is measured, we have all said that it should not have happened in that year of the ten-year ceiling. We found, especially after the great earthquake at Huizinge, that this was not the year to suddenly win a record. So if Mr Bosman would like to acknowledge that, perhaps we can bury that file. "Remove" yes, but "halving" is a very unfortunate text and also a bit of history forgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u78	No, President, because the half ring is from the 48 billion cubic metres. Then it's even more than halved. We absolutely agree on Huizinge and the year after: it should not have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u79	One more question to Mr Bosman, because Mrs Beckerman says: no, the cabinet has not reversed the gas win, that is what the judge did. Mr Bosman says: no, the cabinet has done so. Is it true, in Mr Bosman's view, that the judge decided that gas extraction should be reduced and that the Minister then took the decision? The judge doesn't make that decision himself. Is it true that the Minister made that decision, forced to do so by the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the cabinet and this minister have put together all the information they needed, from SodM, the judge and various interest groups, including the security of supply and the security of the Groningen people. It's all side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u81	Explicitly the judge's judgment has therefore weighed very heavily, I understand, because it could not have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u82	But, of course, a judge's ruling weighs heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you very much. Then I'll look at the minister. It's already willing and able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr President, may I first deal with two things? First of all, the story that the judge would have caused the gas extraction to be reduced. Secondly, the story that the large halving of the gas extraction I have been talking about is the comparison with the year 2013. That's not true. It is, as Mr Bosman said, a comparison with the year 2012, before this cabinet arrived. Then it was 48 billion m, now it's 21.6 billion m. The difference is 55%. So what Mrs Van Tongeren said about that was wrong. Let's talk about the rights. Mrs. Beckerman said she'd heard a lot of crap. I will not say those words to the Chamber, but halfway through that whole process of reducing from 48 billion to 21.6 billion, which has gone through the cabinet alone, there has been a dispute with the Council of State over a transitional period. That was about the order of 1 m to 1.5 m. Should that happen immediately or should it be the year after? That's the only time there's been a judge's ruling. Furthermore, this reduction from EUR 48 billion to EUR 21.6 billion is based on the studies that we had carried out in 2013 and the belief that it was necessary for the safety of the people in Groningen to do so. The cabinet has therefore decided to do so itself. The fact that this reduction in the collection of natural gas has been enforced by the courts is completely false. Those who say that may know that it is completely wrong to say that it is the truth and give a false picture of things here. Either they have been misinformed, and I find that worrying for Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u85	Let us not continue this debate, but the nonsense I was referring to was also that you claimed that mining gas in the small fields does not give us a chance of earthquakes. I wanted to ask you if you are aware that one of the most severe earthquakes that took place in the Netherlands was not in Groningen, but in Alkmaar, where gas was extracted from a small field. Are you familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u86	I'm not just sucking something out of my mind when I talk about this. These are analyses made by those who know what that world is like, how that world is underground. If you have a very large field, one of the largest in the world, and you have a big change in the underground pressure, that leads to movement. If you have small fields and you have a change there, then that doesn't lead to large movements. It does not mean that there can never be an effect in that subsurface and that the risk of earthquakes can be completely excluded, but it is a very different order of magnitude. I said it was wrong to slip into the slipstream of what is happening in Groningen and what we should do there, pull those small fields along and pretend that that is the same problem. That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u87	I understand the Minister doesn't want to answer my question, but I'm trying again. Are you aware that in Alkmaar one of the most severe tremors was caused by the gas extraction from a small field? Do you understand that this causes a lot of unrest among residents where it is possible to drill a small field, such as the Green Heart and Schiermonnikoog?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u88	I gave the answer to the question. I have indicated the difference between the large field and the small field. It's a wrong picture if you pretend the risks in Groningen at the big field are the same as in the small fields. That is absolutely not the case. Then we have the motions that have been presented. The first motion by Mr Wassenberg, on item No. 219, says gas is a fuel from the past centuries and shouldn't have a place in the 21st century. I would like to ask Mr Wassenberg: explain this to all the people in the Netherlands who depend on gas in their homes, to all those who depend on gas for their jobs. Our society in the 21st century runs for 40% on gas, but I, Wassenberg of the Party for Animals, say it is something of the past and it should not be there at all. Why don't you explain that to me? That doesn't make any sense, does it, Mr President? I do not understand how anyone can put such a statement to the Chamber: gas should have no place in the 21st century. Gas is a place in the twenty-first century and must still have it for the time being. We will have to make the transition to renewable energy work responsibly. Mr Wassenberg's motion on item No. 219, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u89	I would ask the Minister to pay a little attention to his words in the assessment of the motions. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u90	I agree, Mr President. And you know, Mr. Chairman, which doesn't make any sense at all? That the Minister, who is part of the cabinet that says that in 2050 the Netherlands should be completely gasless, finds it strange when a motion says that gas should have no place in the twenty-first century. If it is right, the Minister realizes that I am beginning to question this more and more, and that we really need to get rid of the gas. I thought that was a cabinet decision! I thought there was mainly about the timeline disagreement! The Party for Animals wants to get rid of it as soon as possible. The Minister says in 2020, but it's weird to say that gas does belong in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u91	We still need gas until the year 2050. Right now, we're getting 40% of our total energy out of gas. In the first half of the 21st century, our economy depends primarily on gas, then on oil and then on coal and then on renewable energy. We are gradually making the transition to renewable energy. To have the Chamber say that gas should have no place in the 21st century... I will no longer express qualifications because you have asked me to do so, Mr President. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 220. In it, Mrs Van Tongeren says that the Chamber should vote against test drilling and gas extraction at Schiermonnikoog. We all know what this is about. There, therefore, a permit, granted in accordance with the legal provisions, has been used for gas drilling. The gas's been found. If there is an application to obtain that gas, then the stricter law will be released and it will be checked whether or not that permit will be granted under the law. Apart from that, I think that, apart from everything we've laid down in our laws and regulations, as legislators, you shouldn't just make the statement that this isn't possible. That is why I have tabled the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 220 detachment. In the motion in part No. 221 proposes Ms Van Tongeren to the Chamber that the government be asked, through EBN, only to make investments in line with the opinion of DNB. Advice from DNB? We ourselves decide what energy policy is in the Netherlands, and we have rules and agreements for that, and we have supervisors for that. I find it interesting that DNB also says that we have to make the transition to renewable energy, that they also emphasise the importance of climate control, that they also point out that you have to take into account that investments that you used to be able to make in fossil are now for a shorter period, because fossil is going to be reduced. But that in one go DNB should be the test of investment, I see no reason for that at all. So the motion in part No. 220 by Mrs Van Tongeren, which I also advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u92	More like a procedural point. The motion in part No. 220 is not a motion requesting the government. I'm just gonna ask for an address in the Chamber. So I do not think the Minister will be asked whether he wants to discourage or take over the motion. They're just asking for an address in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's right. The same applies to the motion in part No. 219, but the Minister is still free to give an opinion on it. It's not necessary, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr President, I am invited here for this debate. I didn't ask for it, but the Chamber wants to have this debate. The Chamber is being given a ruling and while I have been invited to this debate and I have an opinion on it, I am free to share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u95	We appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. The motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman's 222 proposes to the House that there should be a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands. I said that the phasing-out plan is that in 2050 we no longer want gas in the Netherlands for the purposes I have just talked about, that we have laid it down in the Energy Agenda and that we are now fully developing it with transition paths, which I hope and expect will be completed before the end of this cabinet period. So that plan is already there, and then Mrs. Beckerman asks for it again. I do not think it makes any sense for the Chamber to ask for something that is already coming, which is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution. 222 by Mrs Beckerman also betrayed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u97	Then I would like to thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-8.u98	I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday.
