ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u1	Let's pick up where we left off. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I had a small number of other questions to answer. First of all, Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether a derogation could be simply withdrawn. That is possible, but I would add that the current derogation runs until the end of the year. So it's much more important if we get a new one, because it runs for four years. A second question from Mr Dijkgraaf was about the export of phosphate. He knows that I agree with him that exported manure does not end up on Dutch agricultural land and that there is therefore a reason to argue in Brussels that what is exported can also be sold with the current national production ceiling. But I think I have said before that the Netherlands is not in a very serious position to enforce a change in the rules of the game. The priority is, of course, to ensure that we meet the conditions currently in force and to focus on a new derogation. Mr Graus had a similar question, but he is not here now. He said there's a shortage and phosphate from mines is scarce. He got a good look at all that. Our policy, and indeed that of the European Union, is aimed at the reuse of substances, including phosphate. Mr Geurts asked about the implementation at RVO. He asked if there was sufficient coordination between EZ and RVO. Of course it is, because RVO is covered by EZ. There is therefore coordination at all levels, not only with EZ, but also with the relevant sector organisations. RVO sits around the table weekly with the foremen of those parties. RVO is well in order, but it is complex regulation that has been introduced in a very short time and must also be implemented in a very short time. That also requires great care when there are questions. There are therefore sometimes irrevocable lead times. But RVO has guaranteed me that I have sufficient formation to carry out the tasks that one stands for. In the meantime, almost all livestock farmers have also been given clarity about their reference and their targets. Mrs Lodders also asked about the registration at RVO. It referred to the possible suspension of charges. On 27 May the amounts of money, the levies, will be imposed for the first time. This applies to 16,500 companies. The milk payment will take place at the beginning of June. More than 1,400 companies are informed that the levy will be imposed at a later date, because their views on phosphate or their recourse to the bottleneck regime had not yet been settled by the end of April. Mr Geurts asked about the system of phosphate rights. He wants to know how we deal with meat cattle, especially rare cattle breeds. As is well known, entrepreneurs are granted phosphate rights for dairy cows that were kept on the farm on 2 July 2015. The same applies to dairy cows from rare cattle breeds. Meat farms where no dairy cows intended for dairy farming are kept do not therefore need phosphate rights. I have already said in the context of the rare cattle breeds that the phosphate rights system works in such a way that it takes phosphate excretion into account. Rare cattle breeds generally have lower productivity and thus lower excretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have a question in response to the Secretary of State's comment on the rare races. Indeed, the law deals with this differently from the phosphate reduction plan. This problem will therefore occur in part. Is it right that this distinction is not made in the legal rules on skimming? There is therefore a serious skimming of the rights for these animals that are being transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Grashoff talks about the generic discount. This takes place only at the non-ground farms where these rare pet breeds are kept. I'm sure there are. They are faced with a reduction in their total amount of phosphate rights. They then have two possibilities to bring their production into line with their rights. They can choose to reduce their livestock, but they can also choose to buy or lease rights to bring their rights into line with their total dairy herd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u5	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u6	There were two further questions on a number of problems, in particular on the relationship between this year's provision and next year's provision. However, I would stress that the bottleneck provision in the phosphate reduction scheme for 2017 has been taken one-on-one out of the legislative proposal. That's what I've said here before. If you read the judge's ruling correctly, you'll see that he noticed that, too. In 2017 and 2018, that provision was right, even though Mr Dijkgraaf had a different picture of it. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question on the same subject. In fact, she reiterated the question raised in an earlier debate on the possible extension of the provision of emergency aid as a result of the opinion of the Kalden Committee, which I tabled in response to the amendment to which Mr Geurts was the first author of the Phosphate Rights Act. Can I translate what comes out there in the summer into a bottleneck provision in this year's scheme? Mr Geurts had tabled a motion on this subject. He then adapted it something, so he doesn't ask exactly that. I said then that I could not carry out the original motion and that I could not carry out the modified motion exactly. The mandate to the phosphate rights committee concerns the problem of supply under the phosphate rights system. This should ultimately be laid down in a General Measure of Management in accordance with the Geurts amendment. Only after the system has entered into force will the General Measure of Management also enter into force. As a result, dairy farmers will only be able to rely on the bottled supply afterwards. The assessment of the dairy farmers' reports and the possible allocation will take place as soon as possible, but only in 2018. That assessment is therefore not foreseen for this year. It is relevant that you should also be able to assess the impact of the regime in question. The impact of the phosphate rights system is different from that of the phosphate reduction scheme. For example, the problem provision that we took over was about illness, a family death or construction work on the farm, which meant that the livestock on 2 July 2015 was much smaller than normal. That is relatively easy to assess. If you find yourself in another category which the Kalden Committee is dealing with, it is not said that the provision under the phosphate rights system would work out the same as it is now under the regime. Apart from the entire time schedule, it is also technically not possible to take over exactly the same situations one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u7	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer that the provisions for 2017 and 2018 are identical. I also assumed that, but I do run into a specific case, and there are more than one of them in the case of disease. If you were ill in 2015, you will fall back on the situation before the onset of the disease in 2017. But as of 2018 you will fall back on the situation without disease in 2015 in case of illness. It is technical, but that means that if you don't have an identifiable start date, you won't get any extra space in 2017 and in 2018. I understand that the Secretary of State says that this should not be possible: if you are a disease-based problem in 2018, you will be in 2017. The question is, how do we solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u8	I told you, as far as I'm concerned, the emergency facility has been taken over one-on-one. I'm not familiar with any deviation in that. The scheme for this year and the law that will apply from next year, says that you will be covered by the bottled supply if you kept at least 5% less dairy on the date you were on the basis of disease in the livestock or the entrepreneur himself and that both will look back at the situation for the size of the dairy herd before the disease occurred. I think that's how it's arranged. If Mr Dijkgraaf has very specific information and can show that it is different in one place than in another, perhaps we should take a look at it outside this debate. However, as I know, it contains the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think it would be a good idea to exchange it one-on-one. We have a case that has been specifically rejected with the reasoning I have just mentioned. That would be weird. I think we need to settle that bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u10	We'll see about that. I shall end by saying that this is almost traditional in this type of debate, with Mr Graus' question on the Graus motion for a resolution on the better income model for farmers. We also discussed this in the debate on 5 April. At that time I also told him that we must move towards a livestock farm which has a social support base and which will help farmers to earn more, which will bring added value. This requires changes in the sector. Of course, it's up to another cabinet to look at that. This cabinet has taken the necessary steps. We explained this in detail at that time. The whole policy as it has been is in line with the motion tabled by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thanks for the answer. I also asked to explain it in jip-en-janneketal, so also for Jan with the hat. No one understands, even those who are not following this debate, that there is a phosphate shortage worldwide. It is a kind of gold of the future, a primary need for life, and that we are going to reduce it. People don't understand that. They really can't understand that. There are a few Brussels bureaucrats who come up with all that. No one can understand the fact that we have been a leading country, a leading country, a global trading country for centuries. Could the Secretary of State possibly explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u12	I know the views of Mr Graus' party on European cooperation, but in this case he really does not do it justice. We have jointly agreed in Europe that we are committed to reducing nitrate emissions to groundwater and phosphate to surface water everywhere. That's incredibly important. In fact, drinking water is made from groundwater and if there is too much nitrate in the soil, it is much more difficult for drinking water companies to produce healthy drinking water for us. That is a very important reason for reducing this pollution. Phosphate in surface water causes our nature to get confused, because then too much phosphate gets into nature. So there are two very important reasons why we have agreed with each other in Europe that we are going to ensure that pollution is reduced everywhere. We are far from there, even in the Netherlands. We are not yet at the level we have agreed on, with which we have actually restored the balance. This means that we have to take action to do so. One of these measures is to reduce the use of manure on land. I have already said that the European Commission has said to the Netherlands precisely in this case that we may depart from that agreement. That is a great advantage that the European Commission is giving us. This has everything to do with the specific Dutch situation, in which grass grows harder. So it is precisely the opposite of what Mr Graus says. It is not the case that the European Commission keeps us to all kinds of tough, tedious agreements. It's the other way around. The European Commission gives us more room than there is in the European agreements, with a ground. That's what agreements have been made for. It's subject to conditions. The Netherlands itself agreed to this, more than ten years ago. So it's not new. Everyone has signed this and said: yes, we also think that it should be the maximum amount of phosphate we produce in the Netherlands. We are the ones who do not keep to the agreements, not the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u13	Shortly, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u14	That was then. In the meantime, everyone knows, including scientists, that phosphate may be the new gold of the future. Phosphates are indispensable. Let me give you one example. IJsselmeerfishermen say: you can now look to the bottom, everything has become so clean, but the fish stocks have not gotten better. "Te" isn't good either. That is also where phosphates are needed. We've gone too far to the other side. I do not understand that such experts, our fishermen who call the bell and other people, are not being heard. Why doesn't China deliver us anymore? Why are the Moroccan mines exhausted? Because there's a shortage of phosphates. Why don't we extract and save? That is why I ask the Secretary of State what has been done so far with my motion calling for these precious and scarce phosphates to be extracted from animal manure, as well as from human faeces and urine in the future. How's that going? What are we going to do in this respect for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr Graus refers to the recovery of phosphates from the sewage system. He can see that a great deal is happening in that area. He also talks about the recovery of phosphate from manure. He has seen that there is also much innovation on this, also with support from the cabinet. All this doesn't take away the following. Why was total production already limited in the Netherlands? That was because we could not guarantee in the Netherlands that we would already export all this to other countries where they have a deficit, which Mr Graus says so beautifully. He also saw the recent publication of the PBL. For many years it has been a problem that measurements show that more manure has to end up on the Dutch soil than you could derive purely from the calculations. It is a fact that in the Netherlands, for example, we still have too much nitrate in groundwater and still do not meet the objectives of the Nitrates Directive. That is why the Netherlands still needs a slightly better position. We will have to show that we are better at keeping to the agreements before we can say: yes, but it is not really very much how much manure we produce, because we could all export that manure nicely. The policy is entirely aimed at ensuring that we actually export the surplus, but we will also have to prove it. And it is always good if, before you have a conversation with the European Commission, you first show that you keep the agreements you make with each other anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u16	I think the Secretary of State had come about to the end of his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u18	There's one more question I want to ask you. I found that in December 2016, there would be some 42,000 LU animals over 1 year old than in 2015. The pinky or heifer becomes a cow. Then there's a jump to 90,000 LU. I have asked whether this is taken into account in the calculation. I haven't had a response to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u19	We take everything into account in the calculation, including this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u20	That was a very short answer. At the end of my speech, I reflected on the words we are using at the moment. What are the words in the sector at the moment? Apart from "uncertainty," there is "little future perspective" and "unclearness." There is also talk of "stopping" and "remove." I would very much like to see a new perspective again, particularly for young farmers. I would very much like for them to have a future. So I would not like, so to speak, a stop-per arrangement, but a start-up arrangement. There must be continuity of policies. It was also an emergency call addressed to the Secretary of State, because I see young farmers now really almost go head-to-head because of everything that comes towards them. Would the Secretary of State care to reflect on that? What can we use in this period to learn lessons for the future, which gives young farmers new prospects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u21	We are working with each other to ensure that the entire Dutch dairy farming keeps sufficient perspective. We also said that the loss of the derogation, the exception we have, would put enormous pressure on dairy farming. That's what we've been talking about before. This would put enormous pressure on dairy farming for young farmers too. The most important way to get a perspective is to make sure that we reverse that violation, which we are now committing for the third year in a row because dairy farming in the Netherlands produces too much phosphate. The situation in which we commit that offense must be restored. That takes just as much perseverance, even if there's a little turbulence. We should not all use the terms that Mrs Dik-Faber has just referred to. 'Cause it's just a bit of a bite. That must be done this year. I have already said a few times: it is not the government that has started producing too many phosphates, because that is what dairy farming does as a collective. With the regime we now have, the phosphate reduction plan as it stands, that surplus production is reduced again. That happens along three tracks. First of all, there's the feed trail. That is, of course, the least painful trail. Secondly, there is the stopper regime. This will give companies that wanted to quit anyway, with a lot of extra support. This really is a huge financial boost. Many entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who would like to end their business would wish that they would receive that support. Thirdly, there is the phosphate reduction scheme. This means that all companies that have grown since the government had already said that they should no longer grow should reduce their livestock. Those are companies that have knowingly continued to grow. I understand they're bothered by that. Of course, it's very nice if your company can get such a big size, but it's not that you didn't know it was coming once. They have gone for the individual interest for two years by getting bigger. Now, because of the collective importance of the derogation, it is said that they need to shrink. Yes, that goes with the instruments of the ministerial arrangement. I've said that a few times. We row with the belts we have. We sometimes have to adjust that arrangement over time, but it is important for everyone to know that if we continue to do so, we will simply achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u23	I have to say in all honesty that I looked a little familiar here and there. It helps if we just ask pointy questions and maybe give pointy answers, and assume that people also remember things and stuff. It's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u24	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about phosphate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u25	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u26	I can assure you that this House has also dealt with methane, grazing, calf by cow and whether or not soil-bound. There are so many subjects which are projected into agriculture and which young farmers see coming towards them. Of course also the older generation, but especially the young farmers; it is about their future. So my question is actually broader than today's debate and today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u27	And also the subject of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yes, but you too will agree with me, Mr President, that we need to give young farmers a future perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u29	But it's about phosphates now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u30	I ask the Secretary of State for consistency, for future prospects, to be an ally of the sector, so that there really is new impetus among farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'm trying to say something about it briefly and sharply. Maybe you'll get the most perspective on the future by learning lessons from what happened here. It is sometimes better to opt for action and regulation in the case of social questions, environmental questions that you see coming from afar, even if the sector itself has not yet fully realised that this is going to become inevitable. I say this also in the direction of the parties who always insist here that they are very much in favour of agriculture. Soft healers make stinky wounds. Well, that's turned out to be the case. Sometimes it's better to bite and bite on time instead of putting off issues that you know are coming. That is perhaps an advice to the parties that are going to form a future coalition with each other, which I am sure she will receive some of these kinds of questions. How do you proceed with the entire livestock farming in the Netherlands? It is inevitable that you will face a number of difficult decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u32	We are moving towards the second term, but first of all an interruption by Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u33	I'll come back to my half-interruption from earlier on about the rare races. There is another aspect that I think was the essence of what I just wanted to know, but the Secretary of State went into another aspect. In the new system of rights, skimming takes place when rights are transferred from one owner to another. In that sense, I know that there is no difference in treatment between common cow breeds and the rare breeds. This means that this skimming is indeed taking place. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is an undesirable element in the law and that, in the sense of the adjustments that have now been made to the phosphate reduction plan, we should remove this element for these cow breeds from the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u34	No, because the rights are not tied to the cows. It doesn't say in the rights that they're meant for rare breeds or for other breeds. If one farmer sells or loses his rights to another, that is just a business agreement, which we have incorporated into the law that 10% is skimmed off at the time of the transfer to fill the phosphate bank. This phosphate bank allows farmers to obtain exemptions to produce phosphate without having sufficient rights to do so, in particular for land-based targets, which support young farmers, who go beyond European environmental standards and therefore also support sustainability. That's how we agreed. Whether a farmer also has rare cattle breeds and then sells his rights or not, it does not matter very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u35	That still seems to me to be the way I hear it from the field, too, a provision which can be quite negative in keeping these cattle breeds. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u36	No, I don't see that. I do not see why, if one farmer sells his rights to another, where the government then skims 10% of that transaction, that will necessarily have an immediate effect on holders of rare cattle breeds. One simply gets rights based on the situation on 2 July 2015. It takes into account phosphate excretion, which is sometimes slightly lower in rare cattle breeds. In itself, therefore, all this has been incorporated into the system which takes this into account. If you then decide to sell the rights, it will just take 10% of them, but I don't see very well what that will have for those rare breeds of cattle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u37	Very good. Then we have come to the end of the first term. We are going to see if there is any interest in speaking in second term. The last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Graus, waived his speaking time. I say this as a domestic communication, but also as a small suggestion. But Mr Geurts is not responding, I see again. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. It will not be the last time we talk about dairy farming and the situation in dairy farming, I think. The CDA isn't coming up with any additional motions today. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to do everything in his power to get the RVO to deal with questions and objections from farmers and farmers as soon as possible. I believe that it is now important to clarify this dossier further. From the words of the Secretary of State, I say that we are almost there, but he also had quite a disclaimer. We must not forget them. I await with interest the letter on the percentage of the further reduction. Let me come back to the situation where the State may lose an appeal. Let me rephrase the question: has the Secretary of State already discussed with the sector the possibility of the State losing the appeal and possibly subsequent claims? I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. In conclusion, I think that today we can see that farmers and farmers are delivering an achievement of mega-size in the Netherlands now that they are already so far away from the reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Ouwehand from the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. The end is not yet in sight, as we can see, but the words of the Secretary of State to look at all the challenges, to put it euphemistically, that are at the door of agriculture in conjunction and also to come up with measures in good time so that farmers know where they stand, seem to point in the direction that we must. Let us hope that the forming parties can see that for themselves. If you really have the best interests with the farmers, then you are also prepared for the future. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is at all certain that the Netherlands can retain its derogation;]] [[Considers that precautions should be taken to ensure that there are no additional quantities of animals to be disposed of;]] [[calls on the Government to control the size of the dairy herd by restricting the breeding and landing of animals in dairy farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas organic, biodynamic and actual land-based dairy farms do not contribute to the phosphorus surplus;]] [[Recalling that organic and biodynamic farmers do not make use of the derogation;]] [[noting that the court has ruled that organic, biodynamic or land-based farmers, who do not make use of the derogation, do not have to cooperate with a phosphate reduction plan aimed at maintaining that derogation;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the appeal it has brought and to exempt the effectively land-based, organic and biodynamic dairy farms from the phosphate reduction measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-204]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. The positive thing about this debate is that we can see that the sector is well on its way and is on its way to achieving the reduction. I have already congratulated you on that in the first term. I fully support that, especially after the update of the numbers. I indicated in the first term that my group has a great deal of concern about the judge's ruling. These are the equivalent cases and the claims of farmers who may fall into the same category but who have already disposed of animals. This ruling will undoubtedly also affect those categories in the Phosphate Act. Furthermore, an ever smaller group will be responsible for achieving the reduction target. That's what we're worried about. The Secretary of State has dealt with a number of elements and I understand that because of the appeal, he will not go into this further. This debate will certainly be followed up at the time when the appeal is served. Hopefully this will be clarified in August. We await the young cattle number, but I still urge the Secretary of State, perhaps together with the sector, to take up the communication about any change, but also about progress, and to shape it in a broader way than just with letters to the Chamber. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure better and more communication? I asked another question in the first term, which the Secretary of State took note of. These are matters that lie with RVO. I am therefore happy to see the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions. I am not going to repeat my first-term input point by point. Words that have stuck with me are: keep course, the sector is on the way to achieving the objectives. I really hope it works. Therefore, I am not going to table a motion that is going to cripple an appeal or whatever, because that only increases the confusion and uncertainty. I think it is very important that we get out of this lousy time as soon as possible and that there is really new momentum and that there is a future for young farmers and for dairy farming in our country. I would like to table a motion on the subject of young farmers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas due to the need to reduce phosphate production and the introduction of marketable phosphate rights, the prospects for young farmers have deteriorated;]] [[Whereas a phosphate bank is established, fed by phosphate rights removed by transfer, and which are subsequently eligible, in particular, for land-based dairy farmers with growth areas and plans;]] [[Considers that young farmers, especially start-ups who have just taken over a business, deserve perspective on a future-proof business;]] [[calls on the government to offer future prospects for dairy farming in the Netherlands by strengthening the position of young land-based farmers, including through the phosphate bank and the commitment to the new common agricultural policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. We must note that we are well on our way and that this is well substantiated. It is important to give clarity to dairy farmers with precise figures in June. I am not reassured by the words of the Secretary of State when it comes to the other animal categories. The Secretary of State is right to say that it may be in the interests of the sector to simply bite through, literally, and proactively come up with measures. Nevertheless, my question is how the Secretary of State sees the growth of the other categories of meat cattle from 10.1 to 10.8...........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. We had a little debate about a possible difference in relation to 2017 and 2018. We are tabling a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to adapt the bottleneck provision in the Phosphate Reduction Scheme 2017 in such a way that it corresponds in substance to the bottleneck provision in the Phosphate Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u45	Now the Secretary of State will repeat in a moment that there is no difference and therefore declare the motion superfluous. I'll hold the motion then. That is my prediction of the course of the debate in a moment's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u46	You're thinking a little ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then let's see if there's really a difference. I have looked at the case again and in my opinion there is no meant difference but there is a literal, verbatim difference which makes legal interpretations different in 2017 and 2018. If not, then there is no problem and the motion goes into the trash. If that is the case, then either the Secretary of State will amend the arrangement or I will file a motion. But that seems to me to be a further step forward. I think the biggest difference of opinion between the Secretary of State and me has to do with the assessment of whether all this was foreseeable for the troubles. We can discuss this for a very long time, but I believe that it is indeed best to wait for that trial to take place. However, should that case prove that the judgment remains valid, it will have major consequences on the left or right. I hope it is not necessary, but I am afraid that we will have a solid debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs. Kuik will waive her speaking time. I call Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. The good news was that a considerable blow was made in reducing phosphate emissions; that is the 4.5 million kilos. The less good news is that there is and remains a high degree of uncertainty, especially about the appeal ruling and its consequences. In any event, I ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber immediately as soon as that appeal comes out and to link it directly to what actions he intends to take. I say that all the more so because a verdict might fall into the summer recess. I think the matter is so urgent that I can even imagine the Chamber coming back from recess because there really is no time to lose. This obviously depends on the nature of that appeal. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2000 the number of goats in the Netherlands has almost tripled to 500,000 goats in 2016 and continues to grow rapidly;]] [[Whereas continued growth in the number of goats in the Netherlands leads to additional phosphorus emissions and other environmental and health risks;]] [[calls on the Government, through animal rights, to limit the growth of goat farming and to inform the Chamber before 1 September 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in this Sector Understanding, organic dairy farmers should contribute to the reduction of livestock in 2017, while not causing the phosphate problem;]] [[Considering that the Hague Court also indicated that organic farmers are being disproportionately affected because they do not contribute to the phosphate surplus because they remain well below European standards;]] [[noting that the State Secretary appealed against the judgment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider a derogation for organic farmers and to submit a proposal to the Court immediately after the appeal judgment, if the judgment gives rise to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-208]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. We have been discussing for quite some time in this debate the question of whose fault the current situation is. I have to say that I find it more interesting to know what we can learn from this for the files that are still before us. In this respect, I was somewhat in agreement with the words spoken by the Secretary of State at the end of his speech about soft healers and their effects. I'm filing two motions on behalf of the SP. The first is quite similar to Mrs Ouwehand's second motion and Mr Grashoff's motion, but it is quite different in terms of language. So I'm gonna serve her up anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas biological mixed farms are not responsible for the problems for which the phosphate reduction plan has been established;]] [[noting that the court has also held that proportionality is compromised if organic livestock farms are fined for a problem to which they do not contribute;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude organic mixed farms as a whole from the scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u51	My second motion is in line with my own contribution, but also with what Mrs Lodder said about the importance of communication. I don't think it's been good enough in recent times. However, I also believe that it is important for the Secretary of State to take the lead in the field of communication and that he states that it is a government regulation and therefore the government is primarily responsible for communicating this regulation. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is considerable uncertainty and uncertainty about the content and consequences of the phosphate reduction plan 2017 in the livestock sector;]] [[calls on the government to launch a communication offensive immediately to inform the companies concerned in clear and unambiguous language of the current state of play,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u52	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the Chamber. Some motions have been tabled and questions have been put, but friendly words have also been spoken. I think it's always good to mark that. Mr Geurts, Mrs Lodders and Mr De Groot, among others, welcomed the results achieved so far. Let me thank them for that. Besides, I'm saying that we don't sell the skin until the bear's really shot. I stressed in the first term that we really need to take another step in this direction and ensure that we keep the results. But if we're gonna keep our course and stick together this year, we're gonna have to be okay. With that blow to the arm, I would like to say that I very much appreciated this from these Members. Mr Geurts said that everything must be done to get RVO to deal with the concerns and questions as quickly as possible in order to clarify them as quickly as possible. That's true, and that's what I'm saying. It is also RVO's commitment to doing so. Mr Geurts understands that I do not want to speculate on what should happen if we lose the case on appeal, or some of the cases, because, of course, they are multiple cases. He asked if I have already talked to the sector organisations about as-the-scenarios. We are obviously discussing everything with each other, including those kinds of scenarios, but Mr Geurts asked what this means in concrete terms and what this might mean for claims. In doing so, he asks something that we cannot possibly do at this stage, because you really need to know what the judge's ruling is and what exactly is the situation in which that ruling is seen. You also need to be able to estimate how many similar companies there are, etc., etc., etc., etc. So that is something that we can only really judge with each other when we have appeals. That's why that's an important judge's ruling. Mrs. Lodders asked about the communication. Mr Futselaar has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. She said that there should be better communication about changes. My opinion is that there is maximum communication about any change, both by the sector organisations and by RVO and from the Ministry itself, including on my behalf. It is always explained as well as possible how the scheme works, how it works and how it works. But if the signal from the Chamber is that we must do our utmost in this respect and try to do so as clearly as possible and, where there may be some uncertainty, to give more clarity, I am of course happy to say so, because that is certainly the commitment of all those involved. I have also discussed with the sector organisations before what role they can play in communicating to their supporters. We should not neglect that, because it is important that they take up this role properly. They have said that they want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u54	Certainly, I believe that both sides have a responsibility in this. It's not so much an opinion of mine. In my opinion, I base this opinion on the many people's hundreds of emails with questions about the lack of clarity that prevails. I think we have enough agricultural media in which this can be done very well. The Secretary of State has a wonderful team in the Ministry that can advise him on that point. I would be very grateful if we could take a more firm step on this point, but I am, of course, waiting for the opinion on Mr Futselaar's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u55	I keep saying we're doing the best we can. Can I also say that I sometimes have the impression that the uncertainty is a little stirred up by parties who have an interest in it? Of course, we are not the only ones communicating about this arrangement. I've seen lawyers who would love to communicate anything, hoping they'd sign up with more customers. Unfortunately, that is all part of it, but that does not help to create a clear and unambiguous picture. You may rightly say to me that I must, from my responsibility and from RVO, ensure that communications are communicated as clearly as possible. I think we do, but we keep trying every day to do even better. The same applies to the sector organisations concerned, which also have a responsibility in this regard. We're in this together. It helps if they also clearly communicate to their own supporters. After all, they have direct lines. We agreed to do that. I am therefore happy to say that to Mrs Lodders. Mrs Lodders asked how many farmers apply in the first period because they believe that they are in a similar situation. She repeated that question and indicated that I may also respond in writing. I can also go into it now. After all, I have looked at what we got into RVO, and that is about 100 letters so far. I am reluctant to say that I will inform her of this in writing, because it does not say much. They are farmers who think of themselves or perhaps would like to pretend that they are in a similar situation. If certain plaintiffs were to be granted the right to appeal, they would be pleased to see that it would also apply to them. That doesn't mean it's true. The other day there was also a call from law firms and consultancies that there are hundreds of farmers who are going to say that. That doesn't mean that much, because anyone can claim that he's in the same kind of situation. The point is that we ask the judge on appeal to properly assess all those cases on the basis of the specific situation. I told you, we find judgment questionable in all situations. It is up to the court to assess that and to be as specific as possible. Only then can you say if other farmers are in such a situation. The fact that people sign up and think "I can always try" doesn't give you that much information. I've told you what we've got inside, but that doesn't have to mean that much. In this way, Mrs Lodder has the information she asked for. Mr De Groot came back to the growing other categories, namely meat and goat farming. I think that is understandable given my statement that you need to intervene and regulate in time. In the first instance, I indicated that the current policy has different sectoral ceilings. Only in the sectors where there is a problem do we regulate with rights. We already did that with pig rights and poultry rights. This is where phosphate rights for dairy farming are added. This covers about 90% of livestock. The rest is small categories, compared to these animal categories. In this context, the policy is that there is room for growth, provided that the ceiling is not in sight. That is not the case at the moment. This means that I do not think it is appropriate that this outgoing cabinet should continue to discuss whether the policy should be changed, because that is what Mr De Groot is asking. If there is a desire in the Chamber to change that policy, it is appropriate to have that discussion with a future cabinet, or between possible future coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u56	I understand and agree with that remark. It may only be that the figures in June give rise to the same question, including for the European Commission. Then it is certainly still up to this cabinet to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u57	That is why I said in the first term that there should be growth that is going to pose a threat to the achievement of the national production ceiling, but that is not how I judge growth at the moment. One simply grows within the space that there is and there is enough space left within the sector ceilings. The situation is not such that it requires intervention now or this year. If there is a desire to change the policy in the future, I will leave it to those who are going to be responsible for future policy. Mr Grashoff asked whether I would like to inform the Chamber without delay when the ruling is given. Of course, I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. He's probably faster himself, because the pronunciation is always put on the internet immediately. Mr Grashoff can therefore take note of it as soon as the ruling is given. We are informed at the same time as everyone else, but we will of course inform the Chamber about the ruling. As soon as it is justified, I will also inform the Chamber of my interpretation of the ruling. Mr Grashoff is probably particularly interested in this. The pronunciation itself can also be read elsewhere, but how we interpret it and how we deal with it is of course a second. Of course, we won't be able to do that in an hour. We must look at how quickly we can react to this by then. If we need some time to do so, I agree that I will let the Chamber know. With this, I have answered the questions and come to the motions. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 204 by Mrs Ouwehand, in which the government is asked to control the size of the livestock by restricting breeding and landing. On the contrary, we are going to control the size of the dairy herd with the phosphate rights system. Strictly speaking, this is based on total phosphate production and not exactly on the number of animals in the Netherlands, but there is, of course, a strong relationship between these two. As soon as the system enters into force, there is control over the size of the dairy herd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u58	I am always talking about the scenario in which we do not retain the derogation. The Secretary of State doesn't answer that. According to the figures that are circulating, the number of cows that have to leave is up to 500,000. We shouldn't want to take that risk, should we? You can't pass that whole risk on to the animals, can you? Or does the Secretary of State have any other footage of what will happen if we do not manage to maintain the derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u59	What happens then is speculation, because all kinds of limits are therefore removed. There are limits to the derogation, and you do not know exactly what will happen if it disappears. On the basis of the current livestock, it has been calculated that the excess manure is approximately equivalent to the manure production of some 500,000 cows. This does not mean that the 500 000 cows disappear immediately; something must happen to that manure. Given where we are now and how well things are going with the reduction of phosphate production, I think it's a little premature for speculation if: what would happen if... I note, however, that for someone who has included a 70% reduction in livestock in the electoral programme in one government period, Mrs Ouwehand is very concerned about the reduction of livestock. I assume she wasn't just looking at chickens when she wrote that down in her program. If she was also looking at the dairy herd, it is more than 500,000 animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'm glad the Secretary of State reads the election programs of the Party for Animals so well. That 70% is indeed in it, but that is not intended for a period of four years, because, of course, you have to make a plan for the company security of the companies concerned for about 15 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u61	Shall we now return to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u62	The motion is motivated by the fact that so far the whole risk has been placed on the animals. That's what this is about, isn't it? I don't think that's fair. I believe that the precautionary principle should also be used to see how we can prevent unnecessary removal of animals. That's why I deliberately kept the motion lenient. I leave it to the Secretary of State to make a proposal. However, we cannot say that we are seeing how things are going, and if things are not going well, then we are taking all these animals either to slaughter or to transport to which countries I know very well. Neither one of these is fun for the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u63	I have already said that, given the way we are now, I am not taking that scenario out of the picture. At a time when it turns out that things are going differently than we had anticipated, there is still time, even though it may be quick to think carefully about how these consequences are being dealt with. This requires a broader and better discussion than we can now have in this short debate. On the measure mentioned by Mrs Ouwehand in this motion, I would like to say that I do not recommend it, because for the purpose that she puts forward, namely the control of the dairy herd, we have just the system of phosphate rights. The First Chamber still has to vote on this, but if I am not mistaken, given the contributions of the First Chamber members, it will be possible to bring it up to law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u64	Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u65	In the second motion, in part No. 205, proposes to Mrs Ouwehand to ask the government to withdraw the appeal. I didn't go ice-cream on appeal in one night, so I don't intend to, and I advise against that motion. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 206 is about providing future prospects for dairy farming by strengthening the position of young land-based farmers, including with the help of the phosphate bank. That's policy support. The law explicitly states that there are two objectives which, in any case, are aimed at the phosphate bank, namely to strengthen the soil density and support young farmers. We also discussed the possibility of including other elements in the phosphate bank scheme. This is not only for young farmers, but they can also benefit from it. "The commitment to the new common agricultural policy" is very broad. We have talked a few times here about my position on the common agricultural policy. We are going to talk about the final commitment of the cabinet. I find this wording so broad that I am not very good with it. The first part is actually support for the policy and therefore a little superfluous. That's why I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion Dijkgraaf c.s. in piece No. 207, which means that the problem clause in the scheme for this year must correspond in substance to the one in the Phosphate Act. Mr Dijkgraaf had predicted it well. I do believe that this is the case, so I consider this motion to be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u66	It's unnecessary, so what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u67	And so I advise the Chamber not to take these. This is probably the follow-up that Mr Dijkgraaf had already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u68	Surprising advice. I will also surprise the Secretary of State by holding the motion and first having a discussion with him on whether this really is a problem, as I say, or not, as he claims. We'll figure it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u69	At the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, I propose his motion (33037, No. 207). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u70	On the motion in part No. 206 said the Secretary of State that it is very broad, because it is about the CAP. That is indeed very broad, but the Secretary of State has already spoken to the Chamber about his commitment. Young farmers have no place in that. I think that's a missed opportunity. If he sees any other opportunities to strengthen the position of young farmers, I would be delighted to hear it. I'm looking for what we can do. We have the phosphate bank and the CAP, but there may be other possibilities. I'd love to hear that. What is at the heart of this motion is a future for young farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u71	The motion calls for the position of young land-based farmers to be strengthened in the discussions on the future of the CAP. I have already said that I believe that the resources involved in the CAP should be directed towards supporting certain activities in the future. It must be targeted support, linked to performance, and not so much direct income support, linked to the land you have, as it is today. In the current CAP there is a financial reward for having land and if you are a young farmer, you can get an additional reward. If we were only to shape the future CAP, which of course is not the case, it would look very different. This would involve performance-related support, for example for innovations that contribute to sustainability and to the resolution of climate problems. So more is being asked than just being a young farmer with land.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u72	Indeed, I have seen that the Secretary of State in the CAP also wants to focus on social objectives. That is not wrong in itself, but I think food production, just pure food production, is also an important social objective. If we continue in the current way, we will have no young farmers. I'd like to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u73	I don't share that pessimism. I do agree, however, that providing prospects for new generations of entrepreneurs should be reflected in the discussions on the CAP. However, with the broad wording in the motion, I cannot get out of my way. That's why I have to discourage this motion. I'll stick with that. In his motion in part No. 208 Mr Grashoff asked the government to limit the growth of goat farming by means of animal rights. It is with the same motivation that I have just given in response to Mr De Groot's questions that I advise against this motion. Mr Grashoff could also hold his motion until he can discuss it with a future cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u74	I expected this reply from the Secretary of State, of course, on the basis of what he said earlier in the direction of Mr De Groot and myself. However, the point is that this requires legislation. A simple sum tells us that we'll be two years away. We know how fast this sector is growing in the meantime. So I think there's one and two here, in the sense of the Secretary of State himself. It is wise to prepare legislation on this issue. I can imagine this Secretary of State saying that it may be that he does not finish this himself but that it will be finished by another cabinet. However, I do not think we should first have a few months of formation, then a working period and then a two-year legislative period, and then find that we are too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u75	I'm assuming the policy is in place. There are also agreements on how we deal with the different animal categories. It is not up to this cabinet to change that policy now. That's why I don't recommend the motion. If the new Chamber, as it sits here, thinks otherwise and instructs this cabinet to develop new policies in spite of the outgoing state, then it is also appropriate for the cabinet to take them up. The Court will then have to rule on this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u76	I dispute that this is a new policy. There is a clear sectoral ceiling. It is clear that this sector is growing and, moreover, there is more growth in the meat sector. So you can predict that you'll be up against that ceiling. Governing is forward-looking. So nothing new policy. I could still imagine that the Secretary of State would leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber rather than dissuade it, with the same reasoning he himself used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u77	I stand by my judgment, but I am confident that the Members of Parliament will ultimately make their own judgement, whatever advice I give. So I'm gonna wait and see what else you're gonna do with it as a room. In his motion in part No. 209 Mr Grashoff asked the government to consider an exemption for organic farmers. Of course, that consideration has already been given, because I have already considered a great deal in this process. I've made the following assessment. What organic farmers have to do with forced shrinkage or paying a levy based on the phosphate reduction scheme? These are organic farmers who grew after 2 July 2015, despite the fact that the cabinet clearly stated that any growth that you are still achieving, regardless of the type of business you are, contributes to increasing the problem that we produce more phosphate than we are allowed to produce, and anyone who chooses to increase that problem will do so at their own expense and risk, and must bear in mind that at a later stage he will have to turn in that growth or buy or lease rights for it. The cabinet made that clear at the time. Nevertheless, farmers have continued to grow, including organic farmers. In doing so, they have contributed to increasing the problem. They did that, knowing that the problem was there and also knowing that the cabinet would take action to do so. It is not only relevant whether they actually make use of that derogation, because that derogation does not only serve an individual economic interest of an individual farmer. It's wider than that. It also serves a social interest, namely the social importance of the entire dairy sector for the Dutch economy, the social importance of a green landscape and the social importance of the environment. It reduces fertiliser use in the Netherlands and reduces the transport of animal manure from the Netherlands. Because of this social interest, farmers who do not use and therefore do not benefit from this exemption may also be asked to make a contribution. So now farmers who have contributed to the increase in the problem are asked to help reduce the problem, even if it is organic. I think that is justified and therefore it was the outcome of my consideration not to exclude them from the scheme. Mr Grashoff also attaches that request to the appeal court, and I am not in any way ahead of it. I await that ruling and therefore what I may have to do on the basis of that ruling. The same reasoning applies to the motion in part No. 210 by Mr Futselaar. I also advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 211 is requested by the government for a communication offensive. I consider that motion to support policy. I have indicated a few times that I see the importance of good communication and that I am committed to it. I'm trying to do the best I can for that. I see this motion and also a number of comments made by Members of Parliament as an incentive to continue to make the most of it in order to communicate as effectively as possible about the regulation and everything that is going to be done about it in the coming period. I don't need the motion for that in itself, and that's why I advise against adopting that motion. But I understand the message very well. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u78	Have you made a judgment? That slipped my mind for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u79	I said I'd advise against adopting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u80	This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the other participants in this debate for their presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the seven motions for resolutions. I'm suspending the meeting until 4.30 p.m. clock. We will then be discussing CO emissions in the Netherlands in a 30-member debate.
