ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to the first speaker of this debate, and that is Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. A majority has recently demanded that the Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency (NFIA) stop subsidising tax advice for foreign multinationals wishing to settle here. The case concerning the advent of the chemical group ICL, which brought the NRC to light, shows that the practice was even more absurd. This company was actively invited to come to the ruling team in Rotterdam with a tax advice from KPMG Meijburg & Co paid by the NFIA. By e-mail, it was already known that ICL made the arrival of its headquarters dependent on the question of how beneficial the ruling would be. ICL also indicated that competitor Switzerland offered an effective tax rate of around 10%. Despite the fact that the tax authorities thought it was a very complex case, a favourable ruling was reached in a short time, because ICL definitely chose the Netherlands. Yesterday, a second article in the NRC showed that multinationals wishing to establish their head office in the Netherlands could receive up to 80% reduction in their income tax and that the NFIA even informed ICL that the tax burden could be reduced to 5% by increasing high deductions. I have a lot of questions about this. Is it true that this 80% reduction is possible and that this is based on conscious policy choices? Is it true that multinationals wishing to place their headquarters in the Netherlands can reduce their effective rate to 5% by increasing high deductions? Then I'll come to the case-ICL myself. All points to a tailor-made rule, which has worked towards a desired outcome. And yet this is denied in the letter from Mr Wiebes and Mr Kamp. The letter also states that tariffs are not being negotiated. That makes sense, because they're just in the law. But isn't it also right that the basis is being negotiated and, with it, what is to be paid effectively? This ICL-running reeks of tax class justice. However, the Court cannot check this because the Cabinet relies on its obligation of confidentiality. However, I have a number of questions which I do not think are at odds with. How long does it take on average to establish a ruling? How quickly did the ICL rule come about? If that was very fast, could it have had enough quality? What kind of ruling is this? 'Cause we know 12 of them. Is there also a transfer pricing element in it and, if so, can the State Secretary exclude that this ruling was part of the rulings that the own research group found that the bottom of the business remuneration within the bandwidth was sought in the determination of the transfer prices? Secretary of State, your research group found that in one case a ruling had been issued in which there was doubt as to whether it would fit within the policy frameworks for giving advance security. Can you assure the Chamber that this was not the ICL rule? Has your research group even looked at this ruling? In your view, is there no unhealthy pressure on the ruling team by the NFIA? Can you assure me that there was absolutely no political interference in the conclusion of this deal? Do you really think that your miserable letter takes away the appearance of fiscal class justice? Finally. Are you prepared to ask ICL to agree to the publication of the ruling? Would it help if we asked Chamberwide about this? Can you assure the Chamber that the ICL rule will be submitted to an investigation team and that the findings will be reported to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. A lot has come out again through an appeal to the Public Administration Act. I saw today on the site of the government no less than 2,000 pages on how the NFIA works. This Dutch foreign investment agency, commonly referred to as "tourism agency for large companies," does not roll out the red, but the orange carpet for companies. I'm sure some of this will come up. I would like to add my voice to the questions that Mr Van der Lee has already asked. When I looked at this and saw what the Israeli chemical group got for benefits from that tourism agency, I did frowned on my eyebrows: new planters on the square, the refurbishing of the square, rematches for the director's son so that it could go to the right school. Does all this fall within the remit of that tourism agency? What exactly do they have to do to make a company as comfortable as possible? We have seen that note, Mr Van der Lee also referred to it, in which the tourism agency states that there are generally four possibilities for the tax on profits to dive to 5%. The Bureau indicated that it would help through the tax team that made these arrangements. Does this fall within the remit of this state service? Let me just mention the guarantees in advance. The percentage is never negotiated, that is correct, but you can negotiate the profit on which you pay taxes. I would like to know what the effective tax on profits is for all those rulings that have been issued. Is it 5% or 12%? I want to know, because this tourism agency knows this too. This strengthens me in the idea that we should make the rulings public, something that the European Code of Conduct Group has also prescribed. I have another bone to settle with this Secretary of State. We have asked in a ruling debate whether there are people, legal persons, who are on the penalty list and with whom we are not allowed financial transactions they should use banks, notaries and tax advisors who are facilitated by the Dutch government. If that is the case, this was a motion by Mr Omtzigt, then they must stop as soon as possible. The implementation of the motion looks like this: it is allowed at the moment, we do not know if it has happened and we will stop, but unfortunately we cannot find out whether we have favoured people on the penalty list with such certainty or perhaps less pre-tax profits. How is that even possible? How is it possible that you make international agreements to combat money laundering, combat criminal money, combat terrorist financing and not allow transactions of people on sanction lists for international boycotts, and that the Dutch Tax Office does not comply with them? Is the Secretary of State prepared to check with a team this summer the rulings that he can still check on the legal entities to see if they are on a penalty list? It seems to me that the Netherlands is in a very serious violation because it has not applied this list of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The acquisition agency NFIA obtained around 35,000 jobs in the Netherlands through foreign companies in the last five years. This resulted in 9 billion euros of investment in the Dutch economy. In this particular case, it was 300 additional jobs at ICL. The Prime Minister and the Dutch Acquisition Agency have done what they have to do: to get jobs to the Netherlands. The Tax Administration, like any other company, whether it is an SME or a multinational company, has talked to the company in advance to clarify the interpretation of the tax rules, as we read in the documents. That assessment is no different than if ex post tax returns were made within the existing laws and regulations. That's the way it's supposed to be. The rate of tax and the tax base is not being negotiated and in this sense I find the use of the word 'negotiation' by NFIA to be most unfortunate. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? The examples in NRC today are simply the existing instruments, such as the Innovation Box that we have all identified here. These apply to all companies that meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr Van der Lee has an interruption about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	I was stuck with the words of Mrs De Vries that her use of words is not good. But doesn't this use of words mean negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	When I read the letter from the Secretary of State and the Minister, it is quite clear that the tax rate is not being negotiated and that the tax base is not being negotiated. That's why I find it unfortunate to use words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'm asking you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	We believe that these matters should not be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	But the question is whether we are negotiating in practice. The fact that it is expressed in this way indicates that, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	I don't know. I haven't been to the conversations. I don't think you've been to the interviews either. There have been investigations into it and there have been checks. The General Court looked at the ruling practice, an independent team looked at a number of rulings. We're going to do that more often, and I think that's good to avoid appearances in any case. You haven't been there. I haven't been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mrs. Leijten also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	I actually understand why this tourism agency used the words 'to NGO'. There are five options to make your company's layout so that you have to pay less tax. It's all legal. Correct. But what happened, of course, is that advice has been given to this chemical group. And that's probably what happens to all those companies that come to the tourism office. Advice is given on how to set up your company as conveniently as possible to pay as little tax as possible. Does Mrs De Vries agree with the fact that the Dutch government is providing foreign companies with knowledge, and that it is also subsidising, about how they pay as little as possible tax with business structures, the valuation of certain business areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	I believe that we have already had this discussion in the debate on the tax opinion. A motion has been tabled to that effect. A majority of the Chamber was in favour of deleting it. The VVD did not vote for this, as it occurs in a number of incidental cases. The Minister has given an explanation: it is not meant to bring the tax down. The Innovation Box has established a majority of this Lower House knowingly. We, as the Chamber, deliberately set up the participation exemption. We have decided that we think it is a good thing that double taxation is not paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	Okay, let me try to understand how it works in the head of the VVD or in the reasoning of the VVD. It's clumsy that they used the English word for negotiation in that e-mail. If they had simply said "we advise you about your business organization so that you experience as little tax burden as possible," it would not have been a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	It's never as happy when a SP'er wants to crawl into a VVD'er's head. Maybe the other way around isn't very sensible either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's very commendable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	Well, I don't know. Nor do I know whether the President should comment on this. Look, negotiate, that's not what needs to happen, not about the tax rate and not about the tax base. That that word is used by the NFIA is indeed unfortunate, because that should not happen. The NFIA shouldn't give that impression. Of course, we have a number of instruments. That's what the instruments are for. The Innovation Box is there on the one hand to stimulate innovation and, on the other hand, to make the Netherlands attractive as a location and to bring companies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	Then I'll just draw the conclusion that it was the word "negotiation." If it had been "we can advise you to optimise it so that you experience as little tax burden as possible," the VVD would have said: it is within the rules, it is exactly what this tourism agency should do. But it doesn't matter if the government says: come here, you can get up to 5% effective tax burden and that makes us better than Switzerland, and oh, yes, we'll also set up the square better, we'll get planters and we'll make sure the director's son can retest so he can go to a prestigious school? That's kind of crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	I think it's fine that a company that makes acquisitions for the Netherlands indicates that we have an Innovation Box with a percentage of 5. If we all agree by a majority that this should not be the case anymore, we must take a decision on this. I sometimes find it a pity that the parties on the left in the Lower House do not look very much at all the jobs that foreign companies provide. The resulting investments are simply ignored, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	Please continue with your speech, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	Maybe that's a good fit. In the meantime, I am a bit done blackmailing companies that settle in the Netherlands and providing Dutch jobs and much-needed tax revenues. But also with the malpractice of the ruling practice, which is controlled again, I am done, just as I am done blackmailing all the people and agencies that work hard to get jobs to the Netherlands. They need to be able to do their job, otherwise we're crazy about attracting new businesses and we're losing jobs. I would like us to be as concerned about the location and investment environment as about the rulings. The tax establishment climate is just a component, of course. Infrastructure, education, staff, living environment and so on also play an important role in this and on all these fronts we can be competitive, and we must also want to be competitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mrs. De Vries, I see you waiting. You may be waiting because Mr Van der Lee is at the microphone. Unless Mr Van der Lee wishes to intervene on a specific point, I think it would be better if you could finish your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	Well, then I'll just keep going. We are doing this not only for attracting foreign companies, but, as far as I am concerned, first of all for our own companies. This was an acquisition process in which simply everything was taken out of the closet to bring the company to the Netherlands. This results in Dutch jobs and additional tax revenues. And, of course, this must be done within all existing laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Mr Van der Lee, who has an interruption for you, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	Still, because we're talking about word usage. You use the words "blacking companies." I don't think I blackmailed the company in any way. That's not my point at all. I am concerned that the government should assume its responsibility to apply the laws and regulations correctly. I would welcome it if the VVD were to make that effort and not, as soon as there is a new opportunity, I would like to look at the bonus arrangements immediately to adjust the rules or, in anticipation of adjustments, to adopt a flexible attitude again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	What would you like to ask Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	My question is whether she might not be better off taking that word "blacking" back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, I wasn't actually planning on doing that. I have made it very clear that it must of course be within the framework of legislation and regulations. There is no doubt about that and this is indicated in the letter from the Secretary of State and the Minister. We think this is an important point, but I also think it is important that we do have a number of instruments aimed at our fiscal investment and establishment environment. That GroenLinks apparently attaches less importance to this... We do think those jobs are important!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Now that you don't want to take the floor back, can you be more precise about who you think is blackmailing the current company ICL?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think you have requested a debate on this. I believe we have received a clear letter from the Secretary of State and the Minister. I've said it in a broader sense. It is said here that everything is being arranged. I do not think that is enough for those who work in these kinds of routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	Well, that's not an answer to my question. You don't mention by name who blackmailed the company. Well, I don't think you should use words like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	I didn't hear a question in that. So I'm going straight to Mrs Leijten for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think we are having a debate here with the government on the policy of the government. We appeal to the government to do so. Moreover, it was important for this chemical group to be able to choose between Switzerland and the Netherlands on the basis of which country has the most favourable tax environment. That's just a determination. We can read that in the newspaper, because that has come up in the e-mails that NRC has been provided. I have a question about something else. There are penalty lists in the world. That's about not kosher getting money. It's about war criminals. It's about people who are boycotted, not for nothing. It's about regimes. Doesn't Mrs De Vries of the VVD agree that the Dutch government, the Tax Administration and perhaps also the tourism agency NFIA should always look at who they are dealing with and whether a company is on a penalty list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	We received a letter today from the Secretary of State. In it he writes that it will be looked at from 1 July. I think that's good. I also see the practical problems if you want to do so retroactively and find out all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yes... I'm gonna have to let it work on me for a while. Is it a question of practical problems or is it a question of putting a point in principle? People are on the penalty list for a reason. This has to do with behaviour and wrongly obtained money, but also with international decisions to exclude, for example, certain regimes from international payments. If it wouldn't be practical to check old rulings on that, I'd run into that a little bit. Okay, that ruling practice is there. I have always said that it must be about security and not about tax benefits; we may disagree on that. But it would be very good if we were to say that we simply need to draw a line so that people who are on a penalty list are not in contact with the Dutch government or have a note from the government saying that they can do this in this tax environment? It has to be done for the Secretary of State to check the rulings that are still known on the legal persons and to see if that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u39	A lot of things are being called up. I do not think that we disagree that you should not regulate through rulings that there are tax advantages; rulings give advance certainty to business. We agree that this is not desirable. I am also curious whether the Secretary of State can indicate what is possible on that point. It must also be an operation that can be performed. I think it's a good thing it doesn't happen again from 1 July. That's a win, I think. I'd like that. But I am curious to hear from the Secretary of State what the inability is to do so retroactively. We see that there are a lot of rulings in the Netherlands and that they are not always centrally registered. So I think it will be very complicated on a number of points to check without a UBO register.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u40	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party who wishes to intervene on Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u41	That's right. I have a not so complicated question. Would anything go wrong with the ruling practice in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u42	Look...!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u43	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u44	I said that because it was such a nice, short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u45	Oh! I thought the chairman was like some kind of cheerleader commenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u46	No, no, no. Now that you have made a comment in my direction for the second time: I said just now from Mrs Leijten that she was moving into the VVD, but if it had been the other way around, I would of course have said just as well. Go ahead, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u47	Where people work, mistakes are bound to be made, I'm sure. It would be very strange to say that people don't make mistakes. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that occasionally we have the Court of Auditors look at whether these rulings are being properly concluded. Every year it is checked on a sample basis to see if it is done according to the rules we have agreed on here. I think those are good developments. I can't say much more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u48	That's good. Does Mrs De Vries also think that there are structural errors, that you can set up the tax system in such a way that companies do not pay taxes at all in some ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u49	If there are very large gaps in tax legislation, we in the House of Representatives, and also the Ministry, I think we are constantly looking at how we can close it. That is what we talk about here on a regular basis. So it's not like that's not on the list of things we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u50	No, and that's what my final question is about. I think there were a lot of those holes. There is also a great deal of legislation on this, there is still legislation to come and a lot of legislation has already been dealt with. What initiatives has the VVD taken to close those gaps in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u51	I believe that we have been in a cabinet together with the PvdA for the last four years. As one of the first Cabinets, that cabinet has done a great deal to combat tax evasion and abuse of tax rules. You can look at that. The Secretary of State for the VVD has also recently sent a letter in response to the Panama Papers containing a number of measures in this area. With last year's Tax Plan, we have taken a number of measures in relation to secluded private assets, also a gap that is closed in the laws and regulations. But let me be honest: we are also looking at the other side. We are also looking at the impact on the investment and location environment. So for things like an Innovation Box, we will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u52	Clear. Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I call the next speaker, Mr Mulder of the Party for Freedom. Go ahead, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is pleased that ICL has chosen the Netherlands. The head office in Amsterdam provides employment, both directly and indirectly. Compliments to the NFIA for this. In any case, the NFIA shows good figures, as has just been said: over the last five years over 35,000 jobs and 9 billion investments in the Dutch economy. Tonight we are talking again about fiscal agreements. Every citizen and every company has to pay taxes. Especially now that citizens have been struggling to keep their heads above water for years, it is important to ensure that everyone makes a reasonable contribution. The PVV is therefore against the abuse of tax regulations. But the only truly workable solution against tax avoidance is a solution that has been agreed internationally and is maintained internationally. It's an OECD agreement. It will not work through Brussels or through unilateral agreements. Unsustainable. It's not working. As is also apparent from this case. ICL would now have settled in Switzerland. No work in the Netherlands, no turnover, no contribution to the treasury. Count out your loss. As long as there is no real solution, the PVV therefore opts for employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Mulder. Mr Omtzigt has the floor. He shall speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is good to bring foreign companies to the Netherlands, especially if they are knowledge-intensive companies and especially when it comes to real jobs. With all the discussions we have had on letterbox companies and the like, I would like to say that although I still have questions, they are not about mailbox companies or houseplant things, but about real employment that remains here for a long time. The kind of employment on which we believe with the government that it should settle in the Netherlands. So our questions are about a few very specific points when getting to the Netherlands. Apparently, this government has worked so hard on this, that a WOB request of almost 2,000 pages has appeared about the Dutch government's efforts to get them here. These efforts must therefore have been substantial. So considerable that I have not been able to go through that WOB request in its entirety in the last five hours I have been able to read it. So I'm not ruling out any further questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u56	Looks like the Secretary of State is already looking forward to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u57	I'm going to be buried under work this last week, Madam President. I can read a lot, but not that much. Based on the information I have, I have some questions. The first question is along the lines of Mrs Leijten's and concerns the Omtzigt/Leijten motion. The Secretary of State states that from now on no rulings will be issued if someone is on the penalty list and is a driver there. There is also the dissolution clause that if someone enters those penalty lists, the ruling will be dissolved. That is progress and I am very pleased with it. But if there is a driver already on the penalty list, why can't the ruling be dissolved? One of the things you have to do is hold a meeting physically in the Netherlands a few times a year. If someone is on a penalty list, this person will not enter the Netherlands. Isn't there another way to dissolve the ruling in the current cases because they can't meet the conditions? That's an indirect way, but still a way. Secondly, I am also very curious about the answers to a number of questions, but so many questions have already been asked by my colleagues from the SP and GroenLinks that I cannot think of much more. However, I also had some surprise about the fact that the NFIA just sketches five constructions. How does that relate to the commitment in the last debates that there should be a bit of a level playing field between, let's say, the baker on the corner sitting somewhere else in Amsterdam and paying the 20% tax on profits and a slightly larger company? Is there still equal treatment in equal cases? That is my open question to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to the sixth speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Nijboer. He will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u59	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. My first question is: is it true that companies wishing to establish themselves in the Netherlands can still receive an 80% reduction in the tax on profits? And is it true that you can negotiate the effective tax rate in the Netherlands, if you talk about it a little bit and are a little handy and hire the right fiscalists? Is it true that in this respect we are trying to be so attractive to other countries, in this case Switzerland, that we are getting to the Netherlands through tax competition and a race to the bottom companies? Is it true that the government actively supports that, while we have given this Secretary of State an opposite order? I have often had debates with this Secretary of State. As a Chamber, together with all of us, a few years ago we, as the Netherlands, had to take the vanguard in order to act against this international tax avoidance. My question is simple: is it true? As far as the PvdA is concerned, companies are very welcome here, especially where the real economy is concerned, or really only where the real economy is concerned, but on our terms. That's more like it. We've had a discussion about bonus legislation. That is not what this debate is about, but it is the same issue. Do you have everything you need, including your national legislation, your national principles and standards, your national protection of a stable economy and, in the case of the financial sector, a reasonable and fair tax rate, including vis-à-vis SMEs and people who simply pay taxes here? Is that what we're willing to do? Are we really sticking to our own tax laws? Don't we throw up smokescreens? I would almost say 'a paper reality', but that is because this morning I was in the process of doing so. Is it not a paper reality that is always said that we only explain the rulings we have? In practice, this amounts to a lower effective rate. More than a month ago, two motions were adopted, against the wishes of Minister Kamp, that Dutch subsidies should no longer go to foreign companies paying tax advice. The Chamber was almost unambiguous in that; only the VVD voted against, but the Chamber was also unambiguous. It wasn't a very big decision either, because this was a very specific phenomenon that almost never occurred. The PvdA just wants the Cabinet to carry out those motions. The Chamber asked for a letter on those motions. I also spoke to Minister Kamp yesterday in a gas debate about the fact that he is not carrying out a number of motions. That will be his custom, but that is not the custom of this Secretary of State. I just want the commitment to stop here tonight. We passed that motion. I'm not gonna wait months for a letter stating whether it's being executed. I want a commitment on that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u60	Please stand still, because Mrs Leijten has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u61	It may be crazy, because we tabled that motion together, but in preparation for this debate I came to the website investigatingholland.com; that is that tourism agency. What's under the heading "About NFIA"? "Providing personalized guidance and counsel on tax"! In other words, it is still offered! "We will personally guide and advise your company on taxes." Does that include paying for it? Of course, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u62	Oh, yeah. As far as the PvdA is concerned, I tabled that motion together with Mrs Leijten. I want the Chamber's cabinet to carry out motions and not train them. That certainly applies to this. This is really not complicated. It's a decision: we're not gonna do it anymore. I really have no message that it will take so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u63	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply directly, so the floor is for the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr. Chairman. I am always very happy when companies settle in the Netherlands. Work for everyone, everyone at work; throughout my seven-year political career I have seen this as the motto that affects me most and also most personally: jobs here. The Netherlands is not a country where the sun automatically shines, where oil is in the ground or where we get something else for free. We must therefore have an attractive locational environment and companies that settle here. I'm always grateful for it when I can. It's my party that always calls itself the working Dutchman's party, but your parties, look at it, they're also parties of the working Dutchman. We'll have to make sure of that. I think it's very good that we're recruiting. Recruiting is a little commercial. Perhaps Mrs Leijten and I consider advertising to be slightly different, but I think advertising for our country as a place of business is a noble goal. I will answer her questions in a moment and will also explain what I mean by advertising and what the cabinet means by that. I do agree with the House that it has to be done according to the rules, because we have these rules for a reason. We've got them, and everyone's gonna stick to them. I must also say quite frankly that the area of taxation is, for reasons which I can understand, somewhat shady. We have restricted openness here to ensure that everyone in this Chamber, including this Secretary of State, does not interfere with individual cases. But I also understand that the control tasks of the Chamber would be more difficult for her. So I understand that there are different debates about it. I thank Mr Nijboer for questions that allow me to start with the core. He asked very clear questions, almost yes/no questions. That makes it sharp and I like it. He's asking if we'd give anything to establish companies here. No, we really wouldn't do anything for that. Everyone abides by the law. We have to do it by the book. We choose what we focus on. For example, we choose to focus on real activities and on companies that comply with the law. So we have to do the same ourselves. That's what the government has to do, that's what the NFIA has to do, and that's what the tax authorities have to do. So no, we wouldn't do anything for that, and we wouldn't. That's what we invented the rules for. Another clear question without Mr Nijboer's explanation is whether it is true that companies can get a discount. No, that's not right. It is true that there are ground-breakers that they can use. The Innovation Box is an instrument that may be less popular with Mr Nijboer, but it is in the law. He may also have other percentages in mind for that, so I was able to listen to him once. That's okay, he's a People's Representative for that. But as long as we have this instrument, it's meant for these kinds of cases. This is what we want and the NFIA can advertise for that. Once again, I shall be speaking about the limits. Is it true that you can negotiate the effective rate? No, you can't. The effective rate doesn't exist anyway. It's not input, it's output; it's a consequence. You're not negotiating anything. There are tax laws. The Tax Administration is prepared to give it advance security under conditions, but it is not negotiable at all. Can that make you more attractive than Switzerland? That depends, but in all honesty I say that is quite often not possible. That is therefore not feasible. It's an outcome. The law leads to a certain tax burden, and that is what it is. The Swiss often have different views on this, but that is up to the Swiss. Perhaps Mr Nijboer and I have other percentages in mind for statutory rates, but we both agree that no reduction is granted by anyone. By the NFIA at all and certainly not by the Tax Administration, and that is not negotiable. Mr Van der Lee has asked me somewhere in the middle how long it will take until a ruling has been negotiated. I don't know. That's a huge difference. We don't calculate an average of that at all. I do know, on average, it only takes him a second and a half to ask a question. He really showed me all the corners of the Chamber. Mr Van der Lee has so far been able to ask most questions per minute in my career! I'm going to try very seriously to answer that, as far as I can. This includes a small disclaimer, because Mr Van der Lee talks about "the ruling" of ICL. I don't know if there's a ruling, because I can't interfere with that, but when I go through the WOB documents, I don't come across at all any reference to a ruling. We don't even know yet. Let's establish that for a moment. That doesn't prove anything yet. Maybe we're talking about something that doesn't exist. I don't know. I just don't see it anywhere in the WOB pieces. I do know that in this particular acquisition process, NFIA has not in any case been paid for tax disclosure. I got that. There isn't. Mr Van der Lee did not ask that, but he said that. I would then like to refute that, with which I may reassure him. That also means that I cannot answer a lot of questions about "the ruling." Not only because I can't, but also because I can't and because we don't even know if there is one. That is disappointing, but I have already said at the beginning that I understand the cramp that arises in the stomach of Members of Parliament who feel a controlling responsibility, but who are no longer able to ask these kinds of questions at that level. But it's the way it is. This Secretary of State cannot ask these questions either. Well, he might be able to ask them, but he doesn't get the answer. That's good, too. There are countries where the Secretary of State or MPs are allowed to interfere with individual taxpayers. Frankly, Mr Van der Lee and I do not think that is a better country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u65	There's a lot of questions coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u66	Oh, dear! The record's already set.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u67	The Secretary of State has a habit of releasing it to me. I don't know what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u68	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u69	Well, let's give it a little theoretical, shall we? You say that there is no negotiation, but as soon as there is a rule establishing a transfer pricing system, there will be a negotiating situation, because there is no market and it is not clear what a proper transfer pricing system is. A bandwidth shall be established. This can only be done on the basis of information from the company concerned. Do you at least agree with me that if there is a transfer pricing at stake, a form of negotiation is simply part of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u70	No. It is always the case that information is required for a declaration or for advance security of the taxable person concerned. Declarations, advance security, it is done on the basis of facts and circumstances. Part of the facts and circumstances comes from the taxpayer himself. So that's a no brainer. Is that called "negotiation"? No, it's called "truth finding." So there are facts being requested and it is ultimately up to the Tax Administration to make a judgment on that. That judgment is the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u71	The Secretary of State really cares about my question. I am talking very specifically about the determination of transfer pricing. The characteristic of that is that they are not hard facts. You have to approximate it, because there is no market, there is no actual price. Then you automatically have to deal with a negotiating situation in which the company can indicate how they estimate that that price should be around and the Tax Administration can see if there are similar cases and whether it can determine a bandwidth within which that price should be fixed. Isn't that how it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, that's not the complete story. For transfer pricing specific we use different OECD models. The Netherlands has already used them, but in the OECD framework, other countries are now also expected to limit themselves to these models. Those are objective methods. There are also best benchmarks for the parameters in it. For a lot of things there are market prices. For cost-plus methods, there are common rates of storage used by the Tax Administration, as this is common in industries like this. So it is also not true that there are no numbers about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u73	I didn't say that either. I look at the documents put on paper by the Secretary of State's own research group, which are found, on the basis of rulings that that group has looked at, that it is common for a ruling to fix a price at the bottom of a bandwidth. And it's not like there's always hard data. I don't understand why the Secretary of State can't just admit that it automatically creates a negotiating situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u74	Van der Lee began to say that there are no market prices at all. It is only in a limited number of these methods that market prices are involved. In others, it's about storage rates or whatever. More generally, I have stated that there are often objectivated numbers. Yeah, there are bandwidths in that. In the end, it's up to the IRS to figure out where he's gonna be in those bandwidths. It is up to the company to outline the situation and the circumstances and then, of course, the Tax Administration can take that into account, but ultimately it is up to itself. A negotiation in which there is a two-sided position, in which it is a matter of giving and taking, does not exist at all. The IRS has nothing to give, to take alone. A credible negotiating situation in which we exchange things, as is conceivable in a political situation, is also not always possible until I am sorry there is no such thing, so you cannot call that a negotiation at the time. I wouldn't know what to get back from the IRS or anything like that. No, I cast the word "negotiation" far away from me. It's a truth finding. The company is free to present as many facts and circumstances as it wishes. It is up to the Tax Administration to determine what facts and circumstances he wants to know and request, and to make a final assessment. Judgmental formation is something other than the outcome of a negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u75	I suggest that you continue to answer the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'm gonna try that. Mr Van der Lee specifically asked if it is possible to get a 80% discount on your tax rate. There are no reductions on the statutory rate, but, as I said very briefly in reply to Mr Nijboer's questions, there are instruments that bring the effective rate down, but for that you have to jump through a hoop. At the Innovation Box, we have a Europe-accorded method with all formulas for which you have to check and make judgments by others. Depending on that, you may or may not be eligible. That is not something the Tax Administration alone can decide on at the table there, because that also depends on judgment forming outside the Tax Administration. So yes, the rate can go down. To reassure Mr Van der Lee, I believe that SOMO research has shown that listed companies pay on average a higher effective tax rate than unlisted companies. I can also say to him that I do not know whether that reassures him that very small companies experience an even lower effective tax burden, up tozzp'ers, which some in this Chamber are then indignant in the opposite direction, because they find that too little. So no, there is no systematic bias towards large companies in the sense that they pay less tax. It is also not the case that the Tax Administration can give discounts in that regard. I cannot therefore undertake that someone has looked at a ruling, which I do not know whether it exists. I'm sorry about that in itself. I can't guarantee anyone's gonna look at it either. That's not up to me. If we are going to have an annual independent test, that is what we have agreed with each other, then you should also give those people the opportunity to make a selection. I come to the question of unhealthy pressure and political interference. There is no political interference anyway, because I have only read this case in the newspaper. That is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Van der Lee wishes to intervene on the previous point. Mr Van der Lee, I would ask you to interrupt a little bit, because longer questions also generate longer answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u78	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u79	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u80	I specifically asked if the Secretary of State is willing to ask the company if there is a ruling, especially now that he does not know it himself, and whether the company is willing to accept that ruling being made public. I want to help him with that. I can refer a ruling to the Chamber. If we pronounce it as a Chamber, it might help to convince the company to make the ruling public. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u81	I often make suggestions to companies that, if they consider it desirable, they should be able to express their own views on how they conduct their business. We've done that on model contracts. Some companies have done so. That is not the case here. But if Mr Van der Lee could convince the company to do that, I would be a big fan of that. In all honesty, I have to stay out of that a little bit, but he's in an easier position. To be honest, I would welcome it. I am counting on Mr Van der Lee's persuasiveness. I'm coming to the NFIA. I'm not very happy with the term "tourism agency." That is Mrs Leijten's choice of words, and that is entirely up to her. She doesn't have to make me happy, but I think that term is a little underrated. Employment is so sweet to me that I want to put the NFIA on a pedestal here. We need that approach, although in recent years there have been some shifting insights about how the NFIA should do its job. That's what they said. The fact that the NFIA is doing an excellent job has just been highlighted by several spokesmen. I thank them for that. The correspondence that came up through the WOB is about the period from 2012. I would like to say that since 2014 there have been strengthened internal codes of conduct at the NFIA, which have been made very explicit, and staff also know very explicitly, that only general tax information is provided and certainly no advice is given. At the most, it refers to networks by saying "you can go to the Tax Administration or to tax advisors," but no advice is given. The NFIA is also not involved in the issuance of APAs and ATRs and is not seen in pre-consultation. The NFIA doesn't participate in that. I also read that the NFIA believed that negotiations would be taking place. The NFIA can't know anything about that, because it's not there. The NFIA does not know, is not welcome, should not interfere with it, has no control over it and should not exert any pressure on it. It's all "at your service." It's a fantastic organization, but she's not welcome in that room. The NFIA therefore does not know what and how pre-consultation is taking place. The fact that the NFIA writes that down is on it's account, but this fantastic organization is not present at that point in the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'll come up with another name for this fantastic organization the Secretary of State might be happier with. He got a little pissed that e-mail had been sent in 2012. It's always very easy to say: that was 2012; now we're five years ahead and we don't do that anymore. Can the Secretary of State send us the internal code of conduct so that we can see what has been agreed? What are you doing and what aren't you doing to please the company here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's nice. I brought that because I thought it was an instructive piece of my own. I'm a little wobbly in this, because I'm not about this at all. This is not my policy area, it's EZ's. I have great respect for the department, but I'm not going over it. All the more respect, then. But I'm willing to do this. I'm not doing anything crazy here. I believe that we should be able to share the code of conduct on what the NFIA does and does not do with the Chamber. Maybe I'm pouring out my tendency to be open about another ruler now, but then the accident happened. I will also have the typical roles and what the NFIA does: how she introduces you into networks, how she gives information about the housing market and about schools. And no, the NFIA is not about flower boxes; that's what the congregation is about. The NFIA can introduce you to the city. And if the conversation should be about flower boxes, there will be a conversation about flower boxes between the company and the municipality. The NFIA is not involved, although I found a way to do so, because the brochure of the NFIA contains flower boxes. So that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mrs. Leijten might still want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u85	I appreciate this kind of openness. The NFIA even has the tulip in its logo. So we have no shortage of flowers and flowers in baking in this debate. But can the Secretary of State also promise when the NFIA comes to the rescue: how many jobs or investments will that be and perhaps there will be a time when the RVO will take over? For example, if it's really big business. Is there a ladder in there, too? I'd like to know that, too. I can imagine that this internal behavior that comes to us will also indicate whether there is a roadmap within the meaning of when and at what size which service is provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u86	I don't know that hierarchy. The RVO is an implementation organisation of Dutch regulations. The NFIA is an organisation that is trying to get companies to the Netherlands. I admit that I will ask my colleague to inform the Chamber about the activities and typical roles of the NFIA. He will undoubtedly want to add to this the success of the NFIA. I am sure that if we are equally passionate about employment, we can both be happy with that piece. I will also ask him to show the Chamber what comes out of the code of conduct in terms of: what are we not doing and what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u87	This sounds like quite a commitment, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u88	Yes, but I meant the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, which is also part of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u89	But that's an enforcer of regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u90	I understand that there is indeed a time when, when it really becomes corporate, it goes on. If I've misunderstood that, it could be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u91	I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u92	That is why I asked this question: what size is it and are there different routes? I can imagine that, too. I would like to make one more comment. Employment is also very valuable to me. For the past five years, I have made a huge effort to prevent the dismissal of 70,000 home-care workers. Because that's what this cabinet has on its conscience. So let's not have the contest "who loves most jobs and jobs" in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u93	I suggest we stick to ICL here, or tax rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u94	And the practice of bringing foreign companies here. We can set up a whole tree about the competition that most loves employment, but I will not be told twice that I do not think it is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u95	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u96	I really did not dare to say that Mrs Leijten does not think employment is important. On the contrary, I have suggested that she considers work to be important and that this is exactly the point where we could find each other, because the enthusiasm may be parallel here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u97	We shall see if you can agree with Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u98	This is absolutely the case in terms of employment. But I still had a question. The Secretary of State is very positive about the operations of the NFIA which has been in existence for many years and which has also been successful by bringing many companies to the Netherlands. But how is it that this organisation is talking about "negotiating" when it comes to the tax aspects? There's no way that's gonna fall out of the sky. Does the Secretary of State explain that the NFIA itself uses that terminology, especially after years of work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u99	No. I think it's easy language. At least the NFIA would not be able to see what is being pre-consultationd, because they are not in the pre-consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u100	I think it's a slightly too easy answer, with all due respect. An organisation that has been active in this field for many years has a lot of experience in the course of these processes and in the outcome of the discussions that take place, for example, with the ruling team. It seems to me that the Chamber thinks that there is more going on here. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to make a better statement than he just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u101	I'm in no way responsible for the NFIA. I have a lot on my mind, but it's complicated to ask me to say something about the language of employees within an organization that I hardly know. I may have gotten the stack of WOB leaves later, which is very recent, than the speaker. No, I don't have an explanation for this. I'll tell you what's going on. And I do know that. With regard to the NFIA, we have also been asked about the motions. There are two: the Van der Lee motion and the Nijboer/Leijten motion. I understand that Minister Kamp intends to send a letter within a week. That was not Mr Nijboer's request. There is no way I can make this kind of commitment if I do not know at all what Mr Kamp would have wanted to write in that letter within a week. Here's what I'm gonna do. I would like to stick with my answer that there is no alternative but to receive a letter from Minister Kamp within a week, unless there is another message for the second term via or on behalf of Mr Kamp. If so, I will pass that on to Mr Nijboer. I cannot do anything else right now, but I trust that Mr Kamp will always be very careful and respectful about chamber motions. That's a very general statement. That is how I know Mr Kamp, but apparently Mr Nijboer knew him in a different way; that sadness saddens me. Mrs Leijten has asked a number of questions. The planters have already been. She began her speech by saying that she had a bone to pick with me. I counted them: this is the third apple. Mrs Leijten has had an argument with me twice before. One time was in the first debate we saw each other. I hear Mr Omtzigt say that he also has some apples to pick with me, but the language is now really claimed by Mrs Leijten. He doesn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u102	Fruit is healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u103	No, there's no negotiation of the base. Mrs Leijten also asked me to check the rulings on penalty lists. This is also a concern of Mr Omtzigt and of Mr Van der Lee, who in his bombardment also asked for lists of sanctions. The presence on a list of sanctions can mean anything, depending on the list of sanctions we are talking about. But it doesn't mean you don't have to pay taxes anymore. It doesn't mean you have to pay a higher tax. The subjection to taxation is independent of such a list. If the presence on that list means that you can't be here, that you can't do business here, that you can't have an income here, or that you can't make a profit here, it's gonna be different, but that has nothing to do with the advance security of the Tax Administration. It is therefore not the case that, for example, if we withdraw a ruling, the tax situation will in itself be valued differently. That's not true. However, the motion concerned the withdrawal or refusal of a ruling. This in itself does not lead to a different tax judgment, but it does involve an adopted chamber of inquiry. How do we deal with this now? I informed the Chamber about that this morning. The crux is of course part of the existing rulings, not the new ones. With the new one, I like to give effect to the policy. There is still a need for implementation, but this seems feasible. But in the current rulings, you must first know who the directors of that foreign company are. We don't know that at all. That's not in the report at all. How do we find out? Should we all be sending letters to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u104	Checking the Trade Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u105	The Trade Register. From foreign companies? We're not gonna find out at all. There is no debinding condition now either. Security in advance has also been established. That is a certain commitment and you cannot simply dissolve it unless you have incorporated a debinding clause in advance. That's what I promised for all future rulings. So yes, we are working towards the future. By the way, in a reassuring way, I can say that a ruling is always finite. It ends at some point and then comes a new one, according to the new regime. So it's extinction policy. In the end, the Chamber will achieve exactly what it intended. I would like to thank Mr Mulder for his supportive remarks towards the NFIA. Mr Omtzigt is concerned about the differences between small and large. The NFIA is there for small and large, but the Tax Office is also there for small and large. It is not the case that large companies can force, ask, demand or negotiate things while small companies cannot. The law applies to everyone. On average, in the case of listed companies, the tax burden is higher rather than lower than that of unlisted companies. Mr President, I think I have now had all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mrs Leijten has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u107	Apart from my opinion that I find it shocking that the penalty list is not involved in issuing rulings, although it is mandatory to check them with banks, notaries, tax advisors and trust offices, I welcome the fact that the policy has changed on 1 July. The moment you get a ruling, there's economic activity. Then there is often a Dutch branch here. In that Dutch branch, profits can be reversed. That establishment can make a profit of its own. We all know that there are many forms of that. I ask the Secretary of State to do the following, where the rulings are known, because I understand from the note that not everything is still available. If so, you can't find out what we're asking. However, you can certainly see in the Dutch Trade Register which interested party is registered in a particular NV, e.g. or CV. That may be a little labor-intensive, but it's worth it. Because if that's the Ukrainian oligarch that we think he's using a Dutch mailbox company to convert money into, while he's on the penalty list, it's pretty painful that the Dutch government has co-approved it. So I ask the Secretary of State to make an extreme effort. I ask him to put ten people on it to see if we really can't check the NVs in the Trade Register: who's on the penalty list and who's on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u108	I have shown the willingness to go this way by saying so where the motion can be carried out. But my two objections to the retroactive effect were not en-and-arguments but or-or arguments. So even if you got a list thrown in the lap of all the drivers, and even matched it with any penalty lists in the world, you've legally tied to the security in advance. So we must now see the extinction policy in place. This means that we can say in this Chamber in some time that the penalty lists and the rulings no longer coincide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u109	For how long is a ruling issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u110	I think it's a maximum of ten... five, five is now being said in the official's lodge. The IRS specialist says five. As a rule? Always? Always, he gestures. Well, then we'll be five years from now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u111	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u112	I can't make it that much different. I think it's an understandable request. I have tried very hard to deal with this in a practical way, and that is forward and not backwards. What I can do also stops at some point. I think Mrs Leijten has brought in a lot with her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u113	Sure. Sure. I can see that willingness, too. I also see that it is a good thing that that is stopped now. I do not fully understand the legally unbinding conditions, because someone is not on a penalty list for nothing. A ruling is subject to conditions. If you're using a trust company or a letterbox company here, you have the condition of meeting and so on. That's what Mr Omtzigt said. I simply have very serious doubts as to whether the Secretary of State has gone to extremes not to get it out of the Trade Register. The debate took place a month ago, today we received the letter and the policy starts on 1 July. I think that's a quick follow-up to a motion. But I'd still like to ask if it's really not possible to check that out with a team. I've always understood that it's not about a lot of rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u114	Well, there's a lot of rulings, but there's not a lot of people on penalty lists. But that doesn't make it any easier. No, I really have to say that the initial scepticism has been overcome by finding a way of doing so, and that is all not so easy to do in the implementation. We're not gonna make it backwards. But in the end, in five years, there's no going backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u115	Secretary of State, you were through answering the questions, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes, I was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr. Chairman. This is not very satisfying. But, frankly, this was to be expected in itself, because it concerns an individual case and confidentiality obligation. At the same time, it surprises me how little the Secretary of State really knows about whether or not there is a ruling. We've been talking about that for a while. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Invites the Government, on behalf of the House of Representatives, to ask the Chemistry Company ICL to agree to the publication of the ruling which the company may have agreed with the ruling team in Rotterdam in 2014,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25086-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u119	Then I have another motion. It looks more forward to the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the strong competition between countries to attract multinational headquarters as a country of establishment is constantly putting pressure on the Vpb's further basic erosion;]] [[Whereas such a race to the bottom can give such a tax advantage to the multinationals concerned that, for example, they pay, by means of additional deductions or other so-called base narrowers, hardly any profit tax on a multiannual basis;]] [[calls on the government to come up with new policies aimed at laying down a minimum level of funding for Vpb by companies newly established in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. As I said, it's a good thing we have the Public Administration Act. This sometimes leads us to find out things that we don't find out in another way. This still strengthens me in my request to publish rulings simply anonymized so that we can see them. There's no one size fits all: we're going to get all kinds of clothing buddies to the room. I welcome the NFIA's working methods and code of conduct coming to the Chamber. I doubt I'd file the next motion, but I'll do it anyway. That is because of a phrase in the letter, which makes me think: there can be more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Omtzigt/Leijten motion (25087, No. 163) was adopted;]] [[noting that the government claims not to be able to carry out this motion because "drivers of Dutch and foreign legal persons are often not known to the Tax Administration and because there is no debinding condition in the current APAs and ATRs regarding the presence of drivers on the EU sanctions list";]] [[Calls on the Government to make every effort to review rulings against directors of legal persons who are also on a penalty list and to terminate those rulings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u121	I am doing this because I can imagine the phrase "not known to the Tax Administration" now, but it can become known to the Tax Administration if an attempt is made to find out who the interested parties are in the Trade Register. It may well be that the phrase 'to end' still has to be removed from the Secretary of State, but actually I just want to know if we have people on the penalty list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u122	I call Mrs De Vries. It waives its second term, as does Mr Mulder. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. It'll be recess soon. When directors decide that letters are sent to the Chamber shortly after the recess is entered, it does not generally indicate that they would like to provide information to the Parliament, I would just say indirectly to Minister Kamp on Mr Nijboer's motion. Beautiful is different. A few questions from me have remained open. The first question was about the point on which my SP colleague has just tabled a motion. If a driver is on a penalty list, he is not allowed to enter the Netherlands at all. However, he must hold a meeting in the Netherlands. So why is the ruling not withdrawn because it does not meet the condition? I would like a clear answer to that. Now my second question. The NFIA does write in e-mails that it provides effective tax rates of 5% or 12.5%. I am very curious in what tax law we see Vpb rates of, for example, 12.5%. I don't know them. I'm very curious what that means. I come to my final point. In the WOB requests, which I read more than I wanted to admit in the first term, it really says that a ruling is issued for ten years, after the pretext meeting. That seems to be conflicting with the answer we have just heard that these things will be issued for up to five years. Is five years really the maximum or is there a possibility to get rulings for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Omtzigt. I see that Mr Nijboer is also refusing a second term. How much time does the Secretary of State need to answer the motions? At least the motions need to be distributed. Five minutes? Then the meeting is adjourned until a little after 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u125	The Secretary of State is ready for his second term response. In my opinion, some Members would like to go on for another hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Van der Lee's motion on item No. 171. He asks the cabinet to ask ICL on behalf of the House of Representatives... That's a weird situation. Then you're going to interfere with such an individual taxpayer in a very wonderful way. I know Mr Van der Lee's persuasion and I am quite capable of thinking that he could make such a request on behalf of many political groups and therefore I think that Mr Van der Lee should address this motion to the Chamber. In that case, I would refrain from judging. But now, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion. It would be really weird situations. Let me put it this way: I hope passionately that Mr Van der Lee will succeed. Then there is Mr Van der Lee's motion to item No. 172. It's about the effective rate. What would a world in which we are going to do this look like? The effective rate is different every year, because one year you have it in the Innovation Box and the other year you have it. In addition, there are all fixed feet that make it change annually. Should we then impose some sort of minimum tax on a particular party? If we do this with all the arrivals and not with existing companies, are we not dealing with state aid? The effective rate is not an existing parameter that the Tax Administration calculates. We can't send you on that at all. We're sending at statutory rate. There are ground-breakers that you can appeal to if you are eligible. And that's our system. Should we shut down our country and treat new things differently than old ones? If Mr Van der Lee thinks the tax rate in the Netherlands is too low, he must arrange for a majority in parliament to increase the tax rate in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u127	Just so we're clear, do you advise against this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u128	I advise against this motion. That's what I have to do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u129	Before you do that, Mr Van der Lee would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u130	I understand that the Secretary of State is not very keen to find out, but it is theoretically possible, of course, to lay the foundations for the tax on profits that has to be paid. Of course, there are different types of deductions and base narrowers, but if you want to, you can decorate it so that you are not allowed to fall below a certain rate, also with a combination of deduction options. Does the Secretary of State at least agree with me that it is theoretically conceivable to design it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yes. But then you'd have to do it for everyone. And then Mr Van der Lee has to take the initiative to get the Chamber to have such an idea. We may be able to differ on that, but we can. It's something other than what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u132	I dispute that's something other than what it says. My motion is aimed precisely at asking the cabinet to come forward with proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u133	It doesn't say that. It says that it would only apply to companies that are newly established in the Netherlands. That is something completely different. In the execution it is a dragon, but theoretically it is conceivable to design such a system. It would only fly if you put it on everyone and if you bring in a tax authority that looks very different than today's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr Van der Lee wishes to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u135	I'll change the motion on that one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u136	What does that mean for the Secretary of State's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u137	Then it is theoretically possible, but practically as far as I am concerned a pagan job and politically undesirable. I'm still dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 173. No, it is still impossible to do so, because there is no legally debinding condition. You're not gonna find out about foreign companies either. With the Dutch you could still find out, be it that you can't dissolve. By the way, the largest numbers of people on penalty lists are not necessarily found among directors of companies based in the Netherlands, but that is a different story. So the motion is impossible, but it would also be looking for a pin in a haystack. Mr Omtzigt asked about the time limit for the rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u138	Before you turn to Mr Omtzigt's question, Mrs Leijten would first like to comment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 173.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'd like to modify the operative part of my motion in section No. 173 "calls on the Government to make every effort to review rulings against directors of legal persons who are also on the penalty list'. I myself believe that they should be terminated, but I understand that the Secretary of State sees legal objections there. I just want us to make every effort to know that. We'd really just hit an international screw-up if someone showed up on the penalty list with a tax agreement with our government. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State what he thinks of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u140	The Leiten motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Omtzigt/Leijten motion (25087 No. 163) was adopted;]] [[noting that the government claims to be unable to carry out this motion because "drivers of Dutch and foreign legal persons are often not known to the Tax Administration and because there is no debinding condition on the presence of drivers on the EU sanctions list in the current APAs and ATRS';]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to review rulings against directors of legal persons who are also on a penalty list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 173 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u141	I think that the use of so much capacity to find out what is interesting goes too far, because at the same time it is at the expense of control capacity and tax control on large companies and SMEs. I'm really not okay with that. We don't have any capacity left at the IRS. I would like to use all the people who work there to collect, control, conduct book surveys and appeal to taxpayers on their duty. That's what these people need to be used for. I really wouldn't bet them on this. I therefore still reject the motion after this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u143	With an appeal to capacity, I think you can smash every motion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u144	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u145	We all know the situation at the IRS. I agree that we should make the most of our efforts to control companies and to collect taxpayers' money. But I also think that the Netherlands is failing internationally if it turns out that the Dutch Tax Administration has approved someone on the penalty list. And that's why I'm maintaining my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u146	Okay. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u147	I have a technical question on this. If you are on the penalty list, you cannot enter the Netherlands. If you can't get into the Netherlands, you can't be at the board meeting. And to have a company here in the Netherlands you have to hold a board meeting in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State says that he has no means to terminate the ruling, but if no board meeting is held, the company simply does not meet the conditions and can be terminated. Why is there a problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u148	If an audit reveals that it is inappropriate that board meetings have been held in the Netherlands and if that is a condition to enjoy certain tax facilities or if it could even be a condition to have a ruling, then it becomes a different story. It then runs through the detour and via that route and it is then covered by the regular checks, even if there are no penalty lists. If people do not comply with the conditions attached to tax facilities, then those facilities can be withheld. But an exercise in which we would have to search thousands of registers, and where we would not even get a reply from foreign companies, is not necessary. I also really oppose it, because we need to use the capacity of the Tax Administration effectively. To be honest, we don't do that as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr. Omtzigt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u150	Then I'll turn it around. Imagine that the Tax Administration should be informed, either in parliamentary questions or by private individuals, that there are companies in the Netherlands which clearly show that the driver is on a penalty list. The person who points that out doesn't know if they have a ruling, because you can only guess, even though some of them are registered as such. Is the Secretary of State prepared to extra check whether that is the case and whether they meet the conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u151	That is a question that I want to draw in a slightly broader context, namely: if the Tax Administration gets a valuable tip about something that could be wrong, will the Tax Administration go after it? In general, the Tax Administration will be motivated to follow that up. However, Mr Omtzigt's question is a little too general. It is also about what the indications are, where they lead and whether the tax facilities are linked to them. In general, when the Tax Administration gets tips on things that aren't okay, the Tax Administration takes them seriously, but I have to be a little careful with the answer, because it's about so many different cases and so many different situations. But let me put it this way: if the Tax Administration actually gets signals that something is wrong, the Tax Administration will be inclined to do something about it and not leave it at the heart of it. What Mr Omtzigt describes is another case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u152	Perhaps it would be good if you continued with Mr Omtzig's questions in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u153	This question was asked. This was one of the questions. It is also difficult to reassure Mr Omtzigt; I am often happy when I come halfway... Then there's the question in five or ten years. It is a minuscule moment of glory that my first answer was the best, namely that in extreme cases it is ten years. I was asked about the maximum duration, the extremes. I think the tribute goes to the two spokesmen as well. However, this deadline does not concern the regular cases but the exceptional ones. Then there is also a mid-term review. Yes, I do. I'm gonna have to add that. But the regular ruling is five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u154	I see you coming to the interrupting microphone, Mrs Leijten, but I'm going to wrap up a little bit. We are not going to have another whole debate on the motions. I would now like the Secretary of State to answer Mr Omtzigt's questions. That's what he's gonna do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u155	One final question, the second final question from Mr Omtzigt. He asked "what is meant by..." That's where I got stuck, because I don't know what he meant by "what's meant?" I simply did not understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u156	Very briefly, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u157	I could look back on the literal quote, but the NFIA states in its documents that there is an effective tax rate in the Netherlands of between 5% and 12.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u158	That seems to me to be wrong. That's bullshit. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u159	Okay. Well, then the NFIA sells bullshit. That's interesting in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u160	Well, he doesn't "sell" that. If that's an internal mail from the NFIA, then someone writes it, but I've never heard the NFIA say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u161	This isn't an internal mail. It's an e-mail that goes to third parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u162	The Secretary of State continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u163	I'm done answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u164	Okay. Does Mrs Leijten still have a very urgent interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u165	In particular, I would like to point out that the Secretary of State finds tracking down people who are not on a penalty list for nothing far too complicated, but that when he gets stuck in the question of whether it is five or ten years, he says that it really is only about exceptional cases. Then he is aware of how often it is delivered. Either you know things, or you don't know them. Let's just say that in ten years' time at least there will be certainty that the Dutch Tax Administration will no longer be doing business with people on a penalty list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u166	Well, that's a nice end to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u167	I think that we have come to the end of the debate, but I have to say first that Mr Van der Lee is the second motion, which is in part No. 172, amended. That modified motion will be circulated tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-8.u168	The motion tabled will also be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, as well as the participants in the debate and the people who have followed the debate. I'm gonna close the meeting for today. We're gonna move on tomorrow.
