ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and give Mrs Van Toorenburg the floor as the first speaker and also the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Despite all efforts, it is still too often that victims are unexpectedly confronted with perpetrators. They are often unbearable confrontations, as the Minister himself writes, also in the case that led to this debate. The killer of Célesta's murder came freezingly close to the mother of the murdered girl. In this case, the mother's wish for a location ban was not only not properly processed, but later the ban was even wiped off the table. The unsub's interests would weigh more heavily. This is the bitter practice that we, as legislators, have been wanting to change for years. It may now be regulated differently and legally in future cases. At first, the convict could only be restricted for a very short time in his freedom. New legislation, including an amendment from the CDA, together with the PVV and the VVD, allows for a longer probation period and longer conditions, even a lifetime. This is to prevent serious harmful behaviour towards victims or witnesses. We must, of course, wait for this legislation to work in practice. In particular, it is important to understand when there is a serious and burdensome behaviour towards victims. We ask the Minister to keep an eye on this and to inform the Chamber of how it is developing. Then we know as Chamber whether we have offered sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg a question about this. I understand that at the time she co-treated with the Law on Long-Term Supervision. From this point of view, it may be able to provide a little more insight into what the legislator intended to do at the time with the term'serious disadvantage'. I am actually struggling with the question, and I agree with you, whether it includes the mere fact that the perpetrator lives near the victim. Or does the unsub also have to actively resist or otherwise act against the victim?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	It is not the case that, by definition, a person must have committed all kinds of behaviour which has caused an additional disadvantage to the victim. It's bigger. Based on research that has been done, including within Tilburg University but also elsewhere, we have seen that you have to give some direction. You can't say 'cause someone's getting out. It can't be. That's too vague, too indeterminate. That is why we have chosen this wording. Well, that's been thought through, too. We did a little back and forth on the question of how we could do that. It is a question of what is very incriminating for someone when they are confronted with a person sitting there again. We must now look at this in practice. It is not, therefore, a question of the person having to ring the bell, of the glands in front of the door or, in any other way, of restricting freedom further by behavior. It can be much wider, but it will eventually have to take shape in case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	So, as you recall, it does not have to be based solely on behavior. So it can also be extended beyond just the perpetrator's behavior. It could also be that the unsub lives there but doesn't look back at the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	Yes. Having said that, of course, it remains the case that we cannot say by means of legislation that someone is, by definition, no longer allowed to live anywhere. You can't. You do have a certain socialization. But think of situations where, for example, someone does not cooperate in a consultation to let you know that he is getting close again, or in which it is too incriminating for a victim or a next of kin if someone comes to live there and actually goes into the area. That could be situations we don't want. We had a little disability to do with. It must be the case that someone's probation is extended because there are risks. The probationary period isn't just extended because it still exists. It is therefore always in the extension of the probationary period for conditional release. In that context, you need to see it. Then you have to do something. We have not been able to arrange that the fact that you enter a community is by definition prohibited. So we need to see how the law will work out eventually. We're really worried about you. I'm saying that again on purpose today. We're not the only ones. Criminals are also very concerned. I couldn't help noticing that. For example, the Chairman of the National Consultation Group on Criminal Law made it quite clear that something really needs to be done. This judge himself states that he believes that people should be accompanied much more at a time when perpetrators are released. I would like a response from the Minister. The image of the next of kin remains that the interests of the perpetrators outweigh those of the victims. I know the Minister is very much involved in the next of kin. I understand that the Minister will be present next week at the Day of Remembrance Victims of Violence. Is this what he wants to talk to victims about? Then I also look at what the professor of complex mourning, Jos de Keijser, said. He has spoken with 300 relatives and notes that there is still a very big problem. Survivors get traumatized again when a perpetrator gets out and moves into the neighborhood, he says. He is of the opinion that the Public Prosecutor's Office gives way too easily to the interests of perpetrators. De Keijser also illustrates this by means of examples in which people actually had to move themselves because the situation became unbearable. We have received a fine letter from the Minister in which we also read that the Judicial Institutions Department is working with municipalities to see how the return of a convicted person can be as successful as possible. There is also information provision if mayors have applied. The question arises, of course, whether all the mayors have done so so that they can prepare for a return in a good way. The question is also, of course, how the next of kin or victims are involved. I haven't seen that link enough in the Minister's letter. The minister writes that a mayor who fears a disturbance of public order may discourage the return of an ex-con to his original residence. He can contribute to another place of residence, and if there is a real threat of disorder, he can impose an area ban, but in fact, you often see, in the case of relatives of very serious crimes, when someone's child has been murdered, that that is not a matter of public order, but that someone simply wanders away in pure misery behind the curtains and no longer dares to go outside. These people, with whom we have spoken, are no longer able to go outside because they are afraid that they are confronted with someone who has committed this horrible fact. What can a mayor do? That's what I'm asking the Minister. So we really want to think and take a step further. How can we protect victims and next of kin, bringing someone back into the community where he comes back to live? What can a mayor do, especially in view of the fact that even judges think it is going in the wrong direction in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. RTL News investigated ten cases of next of kin who had to deal with a perpetrator who came to live near them. That is also the reason for this debate, which my group has also supported. The news item showed a lady who feels like a prisoner in her own home in Schiedam. The killer of her daughter was released in May 2016 and lives around the corner, less than 750 meters away from her, while the lady thought he had a restraining order for the whole of Schiedam. After pressing her, she was told by the Public Prosecutor that, although initially a so-called "location ban" had been imposed on him, it had expired on second thought. It was withdrawn when it turned out that the killer's new girlfriend lives in Schiedam. It is often said that the survivors of victims of life crimes are lifelong. I'm afraid it is. If the perpetrator of the crime goes to live close to the next of kin, or returns there, the next of kin will not be dealt with at all and it is impossible to pick up life. Every day with the fear of having to live that you'll meet the killer of your loved one at the grocery store or walking your dog is inhumane. What do we have right now? There are possibilities for imposing a restraining order on the mayor or a behavioral instruction by the district attorney that the perpetrator should not remain in any particular area. This is subject to conditions: serious disturbance of public policy or the existence of serious objections to the accused. The court may also impose a ban or a special condition, but this must be imposed at the time of the conviction. And all these measures are finite. The Minister rightly refers in his letter to the Long-Term Supervision Act. Under that law, which is due to enter into force from January next year, serious offenders of violence who have ended their prison sentence or who have completed their parole after a prison sentence, may be subject to a restriction of liberty and may be renewed at any time. There is an amendment, Mr Van Toorenburg, which has already been tabled on behalf of my group, which allows this probation period to be extended at any time. As I said, that law will not enter into force until January next year. And here too, although rightly, strict conditions apply, namely the prevention of serious incriminating behaviour towards the victims or witnesses. As Mr Van Toorenburg said, we must wait for case law. Anyway, maybe in the case of Schiedam where I started my introduction, hopefully that could offer a solution but we don't know yet. Conclusion: all the above legal possibilities are not sufficient or are not always sufficient in situations where many relatives are found and who are confronted with the perpetrator in the vicinity. As far as my group is concerned, the power of the mayor to impose a ban on the territory, to which I referred earlier, must be subject to less stringent conditions. So far, all cases in which mayors have tried to keep a sex offender or a violent crime away from the victim have been stranded on the view that the serious fear of disturbing public order is not sufficiently substantiated. I'd like a response from the Minister. This is in fact a follow-up to the question that my colleague Mr Van Toorenburg concluded with. In the case of life crimes, there are two interests, that of the offender, who, after undergoing the sentence, must be able to see it as ready and be helped in the context of re-socialisation, and that of the relatives, who are also helped in processing but are unable to do so if the offender stays close or returns there. As far as PVV is concerned, the next of kin are ahead; they have not chosen the terrible situation in which they have ended up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is an investigation by RTL which would show that perpetrators of murder and manslaughter can return virtually unhindered after their punishment in the vicinity of their victims. The interests of the perpetrator would be given priority over the interests of the victim and of the next of kin. This is an image that, although the Minister is nuanced in a letter we have received, refers to all kinds of actions and measures that should prevent the offender from returning to the victim after serving the sentence. But, unfortunately, the fact remains that re-integration of the perpetrator in the vicinity of the victim is not always entirely impossible either. Of course, if the unsub and the victims come from the same area, there is a good chance that the unsub's family will live in the vicinity of the victim. When the right to family life of the offender is taken into account, it means that there is a chance that he will, by definition, return to the same place of residence. In this case, the interests and rights of the offender seem to outweigh the interests of the victim. I have difficulty with that, in the sense that, of course, I also fully recognise the right to family life, including that of the perpetrator, but I do wonder whether that should mean that this should take place exactly where the place of residence is at that time. I therefore think it would be a good idea to examine in detail the exact scope of the right to family life, including the rights and interests of victims. The possibilities of keeping perps away from victims are there. Perpetrators may be subject to a long-term territorial ban, at least as from the new law that colleagues have already spoken about. And that makes sense, because next of kin to someone who's been murdered carry that suffering with them their whole life. If we can alleviate this suffering by preventing perpetrators from returning to their immediate habitat, I believe that the opportunity should be given to do so. The recently adopted Long-Term Supervision Act offers the potential to impose a ban on a convicted person, without limitation in duration, especially with the aim of preventing serious harmful behaviour towards the victim. I stress this in this way, because that is actually the qualification in that law. I have already mentioned it with Mr Van Toorenburg: when I read it this seems to me to be a legal provision that is clear enough. Being confronted with your child's killer is, to say the least, very incriminating. As far as I am concerned, this does not necessarily require a behavior on the part of the perpetrator. It's possible, but it doesn't have to be. I ask the Minister: does the Minister share my opinion on this point? If the Minister agrees with me, how do we make it clear to the judges that this is the reading we are experiencing here in this Chamber? In the end, a law is only effective if it is correctly interpreted and applied by the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. If family members of a victim are unexpectedly confronted with the perpetrator of the crime in question, this is, of course, incredibly painful. It is therefore very important that, when ex-convicts return to our society, the victim or the next of kin are informed in good time, especially when the offender or convicted person returns to the same environment as the victim or the next of kin. The incident that led to this debate went quite wrong, resulting in distressing situations that no one wants. In the end, it is up to the Public Prosecutor to prevent victims from literally facing unpleasant surprises. For this purpose, the Public Prosecutor's Office has certain procedures, which the Minister has explained in detail in his letter. Of course, it is not intended that this is merely a paper reality. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he can indicate how often such incidents occur and how the Public Prosecutor and the DJI are making improvements to prevent such undesirable situations. After all, we must try to prevent any incident where it goes wrong. A few times ago, reports on this subject were published in the media, calling for a ban on the residence of ex-convicts, following the example of an amendment of the law in Belgium. A number of colleagues have already referred to it. When it comes to land bans or to prevent contact between convicted and victim or survivors, my group believes that the interests of the convicted should not only be taken into account, but also the interests of the convicted. At some point, after having completed his sentence, someone must be able to start again with a clean slate and be given a new chance in society. It is therefore always a question of finding the precarious balance between the interests of the convicted person and the legitimate interests of the victim or the next of kin. The Minister states that the Dutch law already allows for this, with the introduction of the Long-Term Supervision Act. Nevertheless, I have the idea that there is a certain difference between the application of the ban on residence in Belgium and the practice in the Netherlands. Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg also commented on this. It may be a bit technical, but if I understand correctly, the Act provides for long-term supervision only to extend the period of supervision if serious account is to be taken of a new crime or to prevent serious incriminating behaviour. Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about this. Unlike Mrs Van Toorenburg, when I look at the explanatory statement, I have the impression that there is only serious incriminating behaviour if there are concrete indications that the convicted person is going to actively approach the victim. This is on page 42 of the explanatory memorandum. If I am right, does this mean that, in the event that one of these two conditions is not met, there is no possibility of extending supervision? As a result, a victim or next of kin in his own environment may be confronted with the convicted person. My question to the Minister is: is the Belgian law not somewhat broader than the Dutch law on this point, at the time when the Long-Term Supervision Act would enter into force on 1 January? Can the Minister explain this and, if necessary, still consider that the Dutch law offers sufficient possibilities to prevent distressing situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The legal status of crime victims has been considerably strengthened in recent decades. Victims are, at least on paper, almost full-fledged trial participants and they are now given the opportunity to defend their material and intangible interests in the criminal proceedings against the perpetrators. GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports this development, but we must also note that too often something still goes wrong. Victims need the government to exercise their rights. Sometimes it's in everyday things when it turns out there's still a lot to gain in the field of empathy with victims and their next of kin. It is poignant to hear of an incident at a court in which relatives in a waiting room were painfully confronted with a suspect and his supporters. That could and should have been prevented. A lack of empathy also showed the reason for this debate: one of the next of kin from RTL News had to find out that her daughter's killer had moved in less than 750 metres from her. She now feels trapped in her own home and wants to leave town as soon as possible. Further investigation by the Minister showed that the mother had indicated in good time that she wanted to ban the perpetrator, but this wish had not been implemented in time by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions. GroenLinks found and believes that your victims are doing the most right by giving them more control over the case in which they were involved against their will and against their will. Therefore, give victims room for the role they can play in the criminal case, or, if they so wish, outside. We believe it is important that perpetrators and victims, if they so wish, be given an opportunity to resolve their material and intangible conflicts. Before that, GroenLinks already proposed the grieve dish in 2001. We also supported various out-of-court conflict resolution projects. It is good for victims to get the lead on their own cause and it is good for suspects that their right to a fair trial can be respected. Victims and, in this case, their next of kin, need to get control of their own lives back. The cases outlined by RTL News are exemplary for what often goes wrong in practice. Victims are sometimes told for the fact that their convicted perpetrator is once again at large and has established himself near the victim. The news item shows that victim rights are paper rights as long as the State's Attorney's Office doesn't work on them. As far as we are concerned, this debate is not just about bans on the territory of convicted offenders, but above all about the failure of the Public Prosecutor's Office to inform and involve victims who wish to do so in the course of the criminal proceedings. In short, we want significant improvements in the implementation of the existing opportunities for victims. GroenLinks has an open eye to the possible legal impossibility of imposing a ban on the territory, but believes that with improved enforcement of criminal, administrative and civil law opportunities, it will be possible to avoid most of the problems. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. Victims and their next of kin are entitled to rest. If you become a victim of a serious violent crime or you lose a neighbor because of it, that's already one big drama. But if victims or next of kin can be confronted with a perpetrator in an annoying way, then that is a new shock and they are victims for the second time. Some families would even decide to move. That's poignant. That is why the SP believes that victims and their next of kin are entitled to rest. Not the victim or the next of kin, but the unsub must stay away. Of course, perpetrators also have to return to society, preferably within a tight framework, with good guidance and strict agreements to prevent someone from going wrong again. But why would it have to be around the corner from the victim or even a next of kin? These people need and right to rest. According to Professor of Complex Grief Processing De Keijser, it is far too common for perpetrators to live near victims and next of kin. Survivors are traumatized once a month, he says to RTL. He also says that this is the reverse world: not the victim but the unsub should move. But then the question is, how is this possible? From the Minister's letter, I point out that the legal possibilities to keep perpetrators away are indeed there, especially from January 2018, when long-term supervision starts, which the SP was very much in favour of, but also now. Sometimes it goes wrong due to lack of communication or administrative errors. Minister, that's not supposed to be possible, is it? How will the Minister prevent this kind of poignant error? Can we not also help to prevent such situations by ensuring that serious crimes are always subject to an assessment of whether a ban on the area should be applied? This is regardless of whether the victim and any next of kin have already actively passed this on as a wish at that time. An offender would then be banned from coming near the victim and/or the next of kin, unless it has been agreed in good consultation with the victim and/or next of kin that they have no objection to this. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Then I have a question about the mayor's role. The minister first wrote that criminal lawmen have sufficient opportunities to impose an area ban. But now it says in the letter that mayors can do the same, for example in the event of a threat to public order. Can the Minister give an example of a situation in which the judge has consciously considered that a ban on the territory is not necessary, but that a mayor still imposes it by administrative means? I understand that's on another ground, but still. Does this happen often and, according to the Minister, is this the desirable way? All the way to the end. I also wonder why not all mayors have applied to get information on the imminent return of perpetrators of serious violence and sexual crimes in their congregation, including the crime committed. This can help to assess the risk of social unrest, according to the letter. This raises the question of why not all mayors have chosen to be informed. If this is still voluntary, my final question is to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. And congratulations on the birth of Jonas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. All speakers rightly called for attention to be paid to the situation of victims and relatives and to the information they need very much when a perpetrator is released and may be living nearby. They also called for attention to be paid to the proper implementation of the often relatively recent arrangements. That is also a constant point of attention to me. Of course, I can never guarantee that where work is done, no mistakes are made, but I really think that the improvements that have been made must bear fruit. Mrs Van Toorenburg was the first speaker to address the concern that the victim's interests were not sufficiently taken into account. We try to keep in constant contact with survivors' organisations such as the Federation of Survivors Victims and not only to be dependent on images in the press. By constantly maintaining direct contact with victims, we try to share their experiences about how they are informed and how they experience the measures. Of course I will go to the Day Remembrance Victims of Violence; it is not this Saturday, but the Saturday after that. No doubt I will speak to victims there myself. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the statements made by the chairman of the national consultation on criminal matters. We find an example of what I went into in my introduction, namely that good work is being done by a lot of parties, such as Victim Aid Netherlands. Working arrangements are made with the Penitentiary Institutions and TBs concerned with regard to the rehabilitation and the interests of survivors or victims are provided by a case manager. We find that this is very often good in practice, but it also needs to be improved. A number of important legislative and executive steps have been taken. A lot's going well, but it's still squeaking and grinding. That is a constant point of attention. It is also the reason why we want to maintain frequent contact with the victim organisations. Mrs Van Toorenburg also addressed the theories of the professor of mourning, Jos de Keijser, who noted the enormous impact it has on victims when a perpetrator comes to live nearby and that this can also lead to the relocation of families of victims and not of perpetrators. This signal, which, of course, has been known for a long time, has led my predecessor to come up with the Law on Long-Term Supervision, a law of which, as several speakers have noted, is the starting date next year and with which the initial experience has yet to be gained. What is already available is the possibility for municipalities to use the Administrative Information Justitiabelen (BIJ), which informs a mayor when perpetrators of a number of serious crimes come to live in their municipality. The vast majority of the mayors are now connected. We therefore see that in these cases, municipalities, in consultation with the public prosecutor and the parole board, are taking real action. Often, this does not immediately relate to a ban, but without such a sharp measure it succeeds in convincing perpetrators not to live in a particular neighborhood, or to avoid a particular neighborhood. We also organise regular activities with the VNG to bring to their attention the possibilities of Bij. Mr Van Nispen asked me what I thought about the fact that 90% is now participating, but 10% is not. Through these VNG meetings, of course, we are also trying to convince the remaining municipalities to make use of this opportunity. That's really in the interests of the victims. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me to deal with the situation that there is no threat to the perpetrator's conduct or the conduct of the perpetrator, but that a victim himself has a very understandable fear of encountering the perpetrator and for that reason, as Mrs Van Toorenburg described, in fact has some sort of house arrest. In such a case, the existing aid measures can lead a mayor to believe that he prefers to convince a perpetrator not to live in that neighborhood or not to show up in that neighborhood, and if necessary to take administrative measures. Therefore, it is not necessarily necessary for that aid measure to include threatening behaviour. There really can be customized without that being the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mrs. Van Tongeren. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's okay, Madam President. Mrs Van Tongeren and I are all used to that. It can only be done for a very short time. Could the Minister please comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	I cannot just, standing behind this Chamber, broaden the legal scope for these measures, because these measures always take place in a balance between the rights of the victims and the rights of the offender. If you would like this to be further amended, it would be wise, moreover, to begin with the initial experience of the new law before we consider additional measures. But we cannot now, standing up for the debate, extend periods or criteria with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, definitely not. I think it is important, even for the people who are listening to this debate, which affects a lot of people very much, to know that those measures by the mayors are actually only possible for a few months. Maybe that could be a pain point, because then you might have been helped for a very short period. But we should not put the picture on the table, nor should the Minister, but I just want to help him to do that, that it can all be done for a short time. If you have to go on much longer, you might have to take care of it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	The law that will come into force soon will allow, partly because of the amendment that has been adopted, to take such a measure longer. That is why I would also suggest that it would be wise for me to share the initial experience with that law before we look at whether there are any further additional measures. Mrs. Helder...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	Before you go any further, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'm interrupting right now but at this point. Perhaps the Minister would have liked to come back to it at a later date when I answered my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's what I was going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	I consider the provision of the Long-Term Surveillance Act to be crucial: seriously burdensome for the victim. The law has been passed and will enter into force on 1 January. I read it that way, but does the Minister also consider that in the assessment that the judge or the Public Prosecutor will make, and only the question of whether a perpetrator lives near the victim can lead to a very long-term imposition of an order on the territory, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	That puts Mr Van Oosten in a difficult position. A law has been passed. It has been extensively discussed and provided with a statement of reasons. I can't add anything to a law on the table right now. We need to get real experience with this law now. This is a relevant question from Mr Van Oosten, but a rule of law is not such as to allow a minister to legislate in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	I fully agree with the Minister on that last point. But if we all have to find that the situation that makes us sit here together, namely that a perpetrator lives near the victim, which the victim experiences as serious suffering, may not necessarily be overcome by the law that is about to come into force, then I would like to call for the law to be tightened up on that point, so that judges and anyone else who is going to work with the law know that this is what the legislator intends or intends to do at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	I am well aware that Mr Van Oosten's example, and indeed Mrs Van Toorenburg's example, will be presented in practice. Even if we wanted to lay this down in the law, such a law would, in my opinion, be much more likely if, on the basis of practice, you could say 'the problem arises'. Perhaps, based on experience in practice, you can say that the problem has already been solved within the current law. I do not see a route now in a situation where we are not yet sure whether the problem will arise and we have already made a law that sees the possibility of banning a perpetrator from living near the victim, now adding something to a law that has just been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	I understand that the Minister cannot, of course, change the law here in this debate and that it is always difficult to anticipate the question of how justice will deal with it. Let's look at the text of the law: "serious incriminating behavior towards." That suggests a certain kind of active attitude of the convicted person towards a victim. In the explanatory memorandum, I see page 42 examples: telephone calls, telephone calls. So active behavior of someone to a victim or next of kin. For me, that suggests that Mr Van Oosten has a point when he says: that does not cover the situation in which it is purely a matter of someone who behaves neatly and happens to end up in the same environment as the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	This debate has taken place. Apparently, that did not give rise to an amendment at the time. I'm really wondering if it's wise to try to go back to writing legal history on that point. I'd really leave it to a judge. In that case, it will have to assess whether the fact that a victim claims that for a reason he is so damaged by the mere fact that the perpetrator lives nearby and is limited in joy of life does indeed justify a ban on living. That really needs to be weighed up in court. Again, I was not in the debate on the law. So I don't know why it wasn't written down more clearly at the time. I know, however, that it is not really possible and it is not wise to try again in a debate such as this, now that the law should actually be in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	I understand that, but on the other hand I also think that when interpreting this provision, the judge is, of course, the first to look at what is in the explanatory statement and what has happened in the parliamentary debate. If I just look at the text, I fear that the judge will come to the conclusion that this is about someone's active behaviour and not more passive behaviour. I think we can predict the answer a little bit. You'll get a number of situations that we all find undesirable, but we can't cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	I find it unwise to anticipate that. Again, I was not in the debate. I do not know why the amendment was not tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	The debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	I can only say that we are now at the stage we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	The treatment's already been done, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	As the author of the amendment, I feel obliged to colour that slightly. We had the great wish to set it up much wider, but that had no support. We are therefore talking, and we are also talking, about getting the support of the VVD and allowing the Minister to give some positive advice, limited to behavior. I think the Minister is right to point out that we should now look at how that works out, also because there were investigations under it. On the basis of these investigations it was said that only the fact that you live somewhere can never necessarily affect a balance of interests so that you are not allowed to walk around anywhere at all. So there's always got to be something going on. That is why we have taken this first step, but also because we know that we still have a Senate, which is always very critical of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	I am grateful to Mrs Van Toorenburg for the addition. She was very involved in that. We agree that the experience gained by the law should be used to see whether any additions are needed. Ms Helder addressed the current application of bans by mayors. I understood her words in such a way that she gets signals that land bans are regularly restricted or rejected by a court ruling. I don't have any clear signals about that. I will put it again in the regular contact I have with the VNG. They should be aware of these signals, but at the moment I do not have them. Mr Van Oosten commented on the need to balance the interests of the victim or the next of kin and the interests of the perpetrator. He specifically addressed the right to family life. He rightly points out that in the recent past, in many case-law, including in the area of victims, the fact that an offender has a family that lives somewhere and is rooted is weighed so heavily that a measure is not imposed on the offender for that reason. For example, I regularly encounter this in the expulsion of criminals who do not have Dutch nationality. Undoubtedly, this consideration will also take place at the time of the application of the new Law on Long-Term Supervision. What I would like to offer to Mr Van Oosten is that when we evaluate that law we should look specifically at how the part of family life, the interest of the perpetrator in family life, is dealt with. Mr Groothuizen asked for a comparison with the Belgian situation. The Belgian residence ban is more limited than the Dutch because it sees the convictions for child abuse. In such cases, a residence ban may be imposed with a maximum of 20 years. The Dutch Long-Term Supervision Act is wider because it is not limited to child abuse. It is true that this law has a periodic test, but not an absolute maximum of twenty years. Mr Groothuizen asked me to go into the point that we were just discussing when interrupting: is it just living nearby enough for a measure under the Long-Term Monitoring Act? In practice, this must be demonstrated by court rulings. Ms Özütok addressed the implementation practice. I have indicated that despite the great commitment of the Public Prosecutor, parole and others, I also observe that it really needs to be done even better in practice. One example she mentioned was a meeting in the courtroom. There is an obligation to have separate spaces for the victims to prevent this, but it seems that implementation does not take sufficient care to prevent people from meeting in the hallway or, worse still, even sharing the same waiting space. Implementation is therefore a constant concern. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions are really working on improvement reports because, of course, they have also observed that the exchange of information was not good enough on a number of points, for example. There was not enough specific indication of the location at which a land ban should apply. Improvement steps have been taken. In this respect, I will really keep my finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	I would like to hear from the Minister what specific improvements he sees in terms of implementation so that victims are not confronted with the perpetrators. I just gave the example of the waiting areas. There should be more involvement and also more feeling in the treatment and treatment of victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	The concrete measures that have been taken concern better information exchange, prior contact by the information hub with the DJI and awareness among those who ultimately do the practical work. Mrs Özütok cites the example of waiting areas. Although there are separate waiting areas for victims, people still run into each other. This has very much to do with being insufficiently sharp or negligent in daily practice. Therefore, a greater level of awareness is also part of that improvement process in order to continuously get the position of the victim on the retina that we have fortunately for several years improved legally also in practice. That is an important and important step in a criminal justice process that was completely focused on the perpetrator for a very long time. This is still the case in many countries. There it is even considered undesirable to have a different focus. Fortunately, we have left that behind in the Netherlands, but you notice that there is a constant need for an improvement process to ensure that the awareness process goes well, in a practical sense and in culture. I say once again that I cannot guarantee that a mistake is not made every now and then where people work. That mistakes are made, we have to accept. Mr Van Nispen raised the question of how to avoid errors in practice. He asked me how I would encourage the last municipalities to join the administrative information process. I indicated that I would make a plea for this in the periodic consultations. I can't think of any reason for a mayor not to want that information. Mr Van Nispen also asked whether consideration should always be given in the criminal proceedings to a ban on the territory or a requirement to move. It doesn't seem logical to me to do that standard, so always. There are a lot of cases in which this is rightly a factor, but there are also a lot of cases where the unsub does not live or come near at all. For example, there has been a meeting in a field of entertainment, or we are talking about serious crimes. There has been a reckoning in the criminal circuit. Then it is completely illogical to consider a removal obligation or an area ban. Judges will have the opportunity to make that assessment from 2018 onwards, but I would not find it logical in the course of justice to raise this question in many cases where that question is not at all raised. It'll almost be a ticking list. But we are really going to watch very closely how the new law is applied in practice. The Chamber will, of course, be informed of this. I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	In cases where it doesn't make sense, for example because the unsub doesn't intend to live in the municipality at all or in other examples mentioned by the minister, you'll soon be done. Then I don't think it's incriminating for the criminal trial either. The reason I made this proposal was that I drew up from the Minister's letter that a victim should first express his appreciation for being kept informed. Then there'll be a victim investigation. The victim may indicate that he would find it very, very incriminating if the unsub moved near him and that that would cause him a new trauma. This can then be taken into account, but precisely in the event that this debate was triggered, this went administratively wrong: the victim later said he wanted to find out, but those data were not properly processed. The proposal I have made will therefore ensure that, regardless of whether a victim has deliberately indicated that he thinks something should be done, in the most serious cases, in other words, in the serious acts of violence and violence that we are talking about, that test will nevertheless take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	I understand Mr Van Nispen's further focus, but it is, of course, extremely difficult in practice to impose a heavy measure such as a residence ban, even if it is temporary, if there is no indication of the victim's interest. You must inevitably make the balancing of interests. The unsub must eventually return to society, have to live somewhere and preferably find work again. This contrasts with the great importance of the victim who does not want to be confronted with the perpetrator. That balance of interests cannot take place if you are not aware of the victim's wishes. That is why you cannot solve that dilemma by introducing a mandatory process step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	Then we will stick to the point of preventing such a test, for example through administrative errors, as the Minister has described in his letter, from taking place at all, which would actually be desirable. Does the Minister still want to think about building up a step which can be explicitly considered? Of course, in certain cases, contact should be made with the victim. I understand that, of course, but say that in some cases it is not necessary and that therefore we do not build in this process does not seem to me to be the right outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	I understand Mr Van Nispen's annoyance at the cases where this has not been good in recent times. I have also indicated that I think that there is a real need for improvements in this area, and I know that steps have been taken to that end, but that must also be the answer to this question. If the process is completed properly, contact with victims or relatives will be sought at a number of times in the procedure. After a first signal that there is no need for contact, we will be contacted again later to see if that is the case. That raises the question. So this situation really needs to be resolved by making the procedure that we all want to see going well, also by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	I note that there is a need for a short suspension before we begin the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	We shall continue with the second term on the part of the Chamber and I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. I think that there are few debates in which these struggles come out so clearly, namely that we all, the Minister and the whole Chamber, want victims/next people to be confronted with perpetrators and conflicts of interest, which should really benefit the victims. Survivors must be done more justice. The question is how we organise this together. We passed a law for this purpose some time ago, in which we were able to accept an amendment to ensure that at least one person can be kept in view for longer and more demands can be made. But still it can wring. That is why a number of Members have thought that they should table a motion to give a little more direction to what they really want. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found that victims or survivors are unwittingly suffering from those convicted of them because of the establishment or movement of those convicted persons in their neighbourhood;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable;]] [[Whereas the Long-Term Surveillance Act provides for the possibility of imposing a long-term ban on a convicted person in order to prevent the return of convicted persons to the vicinity of the victim/next-lives after the prison sentence;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the possibility offered by the Long-Term Monitoring Act to impose a long-term ban on a convicted person in order to prevent victims from being unnecessarily confronted with offenders is sufficiently clear and clear and, if this investigation or case law shows that this is not the case, to clarify it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg, Van Oosten, Groothuizen and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg has rightly said that it is a great pleasure for a number of Members, including myself, to see that when this new law comes into force and that it is not possible to include the mere fact that the perpetrator lives near the victim and that this fact cannot lead to a long-term ban, the law on that point is being amended. I would also like to return to the issue of the right to family life, which I fully recognise. That is what I said during the debate. But let's take a closer look at whether it might be possible to do so in a different place than in the neighborhood where the victim lives. Despite the fact that I have seen the Minister give a hand-in-hand on this point, I would nevertheless like to make a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found that victims or survivors are unwittingly suffering from those convicted of them because of the establishment or movement of those convicted persons in their neighbourhood;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable;]] [[Whereas, in some cases, the right to a family life of the sentenced person who served his sentence seems to conflict with the protectionable interests of the victim or the relatives who do not wish to be confronted with the presence of the convicted person in their vicinity;]] [[calls on the Government, in its review of the Long-Term Monitoring Act, to consider in detail the way in which the balance of interests seen in relation to the right to family life of the convicted person and the rights and wishes of victims is shaped in legal practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Oosten, Van Toorenburg and Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in the first term that the SP also believes that victims and relatives are entitled to rest in order to prevent them from being victimized for the second time by a confrontation with the unsub's presence. You have to stop that. Much has been done, as the Minister has explained in detail. However, where it may still be a mistake, I think that victims themselves must state their own desire to be informed, that they want conditions to be imposed, for example a ban on areas, and if they change their wishes, they must also state so themselves. I think this can still go too easily. I therefore believe that further consideration should be given to the standard application of a test, of course only in the case of serious crimes. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims and survivors are entitled to rest;]] [[noting that victims and relatives may be traumatized again and again when confronted with the presence of an offender in their neighbourhood;]] [[believes that not the victim or the next of kin, but the perpetrator should stay away;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to ensure that, in the case of serious crimes, a standard assessment is made as to whether an offender should be banned and explicitly involve the interests of victims and survivors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly referred to the struggle in which we all, the Chamber and myself, are sitting, in our desire to always put the victim's interests first and, at the same time, to ensure that the perpetrators find a place to live and go back to work somewhere within the framework of the rule of law. First of all, we are thinking of the victim's position. In this context, Mrs Van Toorenburg and others tabled a motion calling on the government to examine whether the possibility offered by the Long-Term Surveillance Act to impose a long-term ban on a convicted person in order to avoid unnecessary victims being confronted with perpetrators is sufficiently clear and clear and, if this investigation or the case-law formed shows that this is not the case, clarify it. I shall be happy to do so if I may read the motion in this way. Then I'd like to leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	The evaluation is, of course, after five years. We always do that carefully. I'm sure the officials involved at the ministry will keep their finger on the pulse. If we have premature reports that things are not moving in the right direction, we would also like to be informed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes. If before that time there are reports of such seriousness and magnitude that we have to sit together earlier, I am prepared to do so. With that addition, too, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement. Mr Van Oosten's motion for a resolution 31 calls on the Government, when evaluating the Long-Term Monitoring Act, to consider in detail the way in which the balance of interests which sees the right to a family life of the convicted person and the rights and wishes of victims is shaped in the (legal) practice. I would also like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. She's already referring to the evaluation. I'll be happy to do that. Mr Van Nispen's motion for a resolution 32 calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to ensure that, in the case of serious crimes, a standard assessment is made of whether an offender should be subject to an area ban and that the interests of victims and survivors are explicitly taken into account. We have already exchanged here in the debate on the interruption that it is part of the logical questions that are asked to victims or relatives when the procedure is going through properly, but that I do not see any reasonable means of adding it to a procedure which, at least on paper, is working properly, otherwise you can end up in a situation where you do not know what the victim wants, which makes the balancing of interests no longer possible. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	On the motions that have been tabled, in fact all the motions that have been tabled this week, we are going to vote on Tuesday 26 September.
