ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on government externals earning a higher salary than a minister. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Mr Middendorp is making his maiden speech today. Almost the entire fraction of the VVD is present to enjoy it. I give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD as the first speaker. There's no need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The subject of this debate is important to me. It is about how we can make the government effective and economical; one of the few subjects on which my parents and I have politically agreed. I grew up in the Rivierenbuurt in Amsterdam, in what was then still a popular neighborhood. My parents believed in the revolution and taught me to demonstrate. I didn't choose their revolution and ideology, but I chose their motivation to make people who are less well-off stronger. During my 15 years in business, I knew I was going to switch to serve the public interest. The fact that I'm standing here now is a great privilege. It's also a big responsibility. I come here to do something: make the Netherlands more liberal and work for a stronger, fairer and better Netherlands. In addition, I have great confidence in the power of people. This brings me to the rewards in the public sector and the Law standards top incomes. It is part of the formation and we will discuss it further when the coalition agreement is reached. I very much look forward to that. Public money must be publicly accounted for. There are no excessive rewards in serving the public cause. At the same time, laws must be enforceable. If hospitals have to make huge costs to register stuffed cakes, there is a gap between the laws that we invent here and the real world. For the VVD, the evaluation of the Top Income Standards Act is therefore of great importance. The choice to hire externals, we have to be national-wide critical of that. That can only be explained if we get better results. Madam President. I am grateful to my teachers, the Amsterdam professors Vaassen and Heertje. They believed at the beginning of this century that I could become a geologist engaged in volcanoes, deserts and all the beauty our earth has to offer. They taught me about the difficult step from thinking to doing; the step from laws to the real world and stuffed cakes. They also taught me that despite the caricature made by some, economic science is not just about money. It is about people; people, here and elsewhere, and their needs in the broadest sense, now, later and in the future. Mr. Chairman. I will not forget the man who said to me in Amsterdam-Noord: "Four years ago, at the height of the economic crisis, I lost my job, but now I have my life back on track". What we do here matters. I want to work for a decisive and economical government that leaves people room, so that our children can choose what kind of country they want to live in and what they want to get out of their lives. My own choice, as I was allowed to do in my youth, from my parents who thought politics so differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you for this beautiful and personal maiden speech. I'd like to suspend the congratulations after I'm the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	Let's move on. Maiden speeches always remain the most beautiful speeches, because there is something personal in them. Unfortunately, that always remains with the maiden speeches; after that, MPs move on to the order of the day. It was a nice speech, Mr Middendorp. Ms Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a bit of a crazy transition, isn't it? I would like to congratulate Mr Middendorp on his beautiful maiden speech, in which he also mentioned his background and personal drive on this subject. I've also heard a clear promise. So if it's okay, we can really expect a lot more in tackling top incomes and hiring expensive external advisors. Welcome, Mr. Middendorp. Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking to this minister about too expensive external hiring in the government. Once again, I am very sorry to note that this Minister still does not seem to feel the urgency to really do something about the possibilities of circumventing the legislation that is already in place in this area. It is not for the public to explain that all kinds of governments hire expensive outsiders who earn more than the minister, while on all sides the working conditions, wages and pensions of people who are not able to rent out as expensive outsiders are being cut. The police, for example, may soon be taking action for a better pension. They're hoping for a decent raise. Many new graduates are recruited by the government through payroll and temp constructions without any certainty. I ask this Minister, who has been jointly responsible for human resources policy in the government for almost five years now, how this inequality can be eliminated. In the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber, he states that there is a maximum hourly rate of €225 for externals and that a maximum of 10% of staff expenditure may be spent on externals per ministry. The Minister also states that if this standard is exceeded, the "explain" principle applies. I would like to hear the Minister's views on the explanations given under this principle. Or is this just a noncommittal explanation? How many explanations have been given and in how many cases, according to the Minister, the explanation was not valid? What happens if a ministry has explained, but this explanation is not adequate? The Minister further writes in his letter that the local authorities themselves are responsible for their expenditure and management. Yeah, that's right. GroenLinks is also in favour of this,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	Are you almost ready for a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'll finish this sentence. ... but the Minister is now very easily hiding behind the responsibilities of the local authorities. I would like to know from the Minister how to prevent us from having proper regulations here at the state level, but the local authorities will continue to hire far too expensive externalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	What do you think, Mrs Özütok, of the Minister's explanation of the exceedances of the standards in the ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	That is incomprehensible to me too. I await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	The Minister, of course, writes in his report that the hourly rate of €225 has been exceeded six times: once at the Ministry of the Interior and five times at the Ministry of Security and Justice. He also explained the functions involved, what exactly was done and what objective. My question to you is: what else do you want to see? What further explanation do you want from the Minister about these six people who actually got paid more than the maximum rate we agreed on in the year 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	You are now very much addressing a specific subject. I do not have the reasons for this right now, but in general I wonder how the principle of explanation applies and whether there are any follow-up actions. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister how we can prevent this. We must have properly regulated the situation at a rich level, and it must be carried out properly. Every time we hear from the Minister that a bill to tackle these shortcuts is in preparation. Mr Van Raak has even asked that the text of the bill be sent to the House of Representatives. I support Mr Van Raak in his position on this. I await the Minister's response with interest, because I think it is a very important subject. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for having a colleague now. We've been around since 1464 and have announced that we've come here to do something about it. That makes it interesting. I look forward to it with great pleasure. He has decided not to serve the revolution of his parents, but apparently the parliamentary system. I wish him every success in that. I understand he's a retrained geologist who's become an economist. I don't have to think about the old Hermans sleeping anymore. I don't know if you can't be a much better geologist than economist to work here, but we'll have to think about that later. Back to what we're talking about today. This is a 30-member debate requested by Mrs Özütok in response to alarming newspaper reports. The Minister has written to us a letter in which he gives us a certain explanation for this. Looks like things aren't so bad and they're not that alarming. I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Is this a case that goes even further in the future or is this the end of it? That is actually the very simple question on my part. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	I should like to congratulate Mr Middendorp. My parents believed in the revolution and taught me to demonstrate, he said. I note that we have a solid basis to build on together. It was once a proposal from the SP, but five years ago it was incorporated into the government agreement of the PvdA and the VVD: directors in the semi-public and public sector who are paid with tax money should not earn more than the Prime Minister. Since 2006, we had a law to make top incomes public in government, public service broadcasting, health care, education, housing corporations and so on, but that only led to higher fees, because one driver did not want to stay behind the other. Therefore, in 2013, the Top Income Standards Act was introduced, which should make allowances higher than the Prime Minister's income impossible. The House of Representatives set a standard, but the grunting continued. Members of parliament are constantly asking questions to ministers, not about directors, but about employees in the semi-public and public sector who receive more money than the Prime Minister. At the Ministry, with the Minister in a drawer, there is a beautiful bill that should prevent this from happening in the future. This bill to tackle the problem at the top is contained in the government agreement, which must be implemented by the current minister. If the current coalition adheres to the agreements, there is also a large majority in the Chamber for this bill, the WNT3. Yet the Minister refuses to submit his own bill. I've never seen that before. It can't be explained that there will be no directors, but employees will be able to get more than the Prime Minister. This also leaves the door open for all kinds of expensive consultants and useless advisors and the creation of well-paid jobs for expensive externals. Last week I asked the Minister to send his own bill to the House of Representatives. I didn't think of that myself; that was an advice to me from the Committee on Home Affairs. He said, ask the minister. Last Tuesday the Minister replied that he does not, because he wants to leave it to the next cabinet. I find it remarkable to leave the implementation of the current government agreement to another cabinet. I think the current cabinet should do that, the current government. That makes sense to me. So I ask the Minister once again whether he is prepared to send the present preparatory documents, the Top Incomes Act 3, to the House of Representatives. Is he prepared to send those documents to us so that we can get to work with them and it is also possible for a Member of Parliament to defend the law here if he or she feels the need to do so? In this respect, the SP is happy to bring the government agreement of PvdA and VVD to a successful conclusion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to Mr Middendorp. I remember when we were in a debate together in campaign time. We sat next to each other for a while. I've been hearing you for a while, and then you told me at some point that you were actually coming out of a very red nest. When it turned out that I also sometimes suffer from prejudice, that that is possible. We had a debate on this this morning. It happens to me, too. It won't happen to me again. I liked the story. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We use the tax money for good care, excellent education and a fine home, which allows us to make the most of our lives. Tax money should therefore not be used for exorbitant salaries of housing corporation directors, care and education managers. That is why one of the first laws of this cabinet was also to bring top incomes in the public sector up to the level of a ministerial salary. You can eat a good sandwich on a salary like that, too, I think. In December we received the annual report on this law. Conclusion: The law, the strictest in Europe, works. Overall, directors' salaries are much lower than they were before the law. That's good news, but it's not good enough. We still see constructions to enrich yourself privately with public money. Therefore, in an amendment of the law, the Law normalizing top incomes 3, the scope of the law would be extended. It would be said that all officials would be covered by that law, and not just the highest officials. That law has been consulted, dealt with in the cabinet, went to the Council of State and is now back in the cabinet and on the negotiating table of a possible new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Let us hope that this law does not fall off the table and that it continues along this road, to put an end to excessive salaries in the government and exorbitant golden handshakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u18	It is weird that part of this government's coalition agreement is on the negotiating table of the next government, when the next government is not even there. We have a parliament, we have a minister, we have a coalition of VVD and PvdA. Doesn't it make sense for the Minister to just file his own law? It's right there on the desk or in the drawer. It's possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u19	If I looked deep into my heart, I would, of course, like to. As Minister Asscher said this morning, we are living in a deep devotional state. And so we also have a deep missionary minister. I assume, given the support in the Chamber earlier, that this should lead to a majority again in a new cabinet, but in this case I follow the Minister, who says: I am actually at the end, I've actually been there much longer than I ever thought; I can't finish this now and leave it to another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u20	I note that the Minister has taken all kinds of new initiatives this week, for example on the solidarity regime in my own party. So the Minister intends to do all sorts of things. But perhaps Mr Van Dijk is right too and it is simply an initiative that the House of Representatives should take. The minister is a missionary, the chamber isn't. Then it is up to the Chamber to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u21	Please continue, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u22	It's a good thing the law's gonna be there, but I'm worried. For example, I see in the law as it has been consulted, that the external hire would not be included. That would be too complex. I hope and expect that when the law comes to the Chamber, there will be an arrangement for externals. After all, tax money is still at stake. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, even though he is deeply decommissioned. Finally, Mr President. The Top Income Standards Act should also include an emergency braking procedure. The past shows that creatives always manage to enrich themselves with taxpayers' money and still stay within the limits of the law. So far it has not been possible to make everything legally watertight. That is why I would like to see a provision in this amended law which will give the Minister the power to prohibit income which he considers unreasonable. Let us ensure that everyone can count on taxpayers' money being used for what it is intended to do, namely for good public services for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Middendorp on his maiden speech. He has already shown in various general discussions over the past period that he can handle the debate well and that he is happy to do so. It was nice to see that he has now been able to make his start in the plenary. Mr. Chairman. It won't surprise you: the CDA thinks that you should also handle taxpayers' money in an economical way. That is why it is also important for the Empire to have a maximum fare for external hire. There wasn't before, and now there is. The Minister is also responsible for this. As a ministry, you must have serious reasons to deviate from that rate and pay more. In 2016 it involved six officials: one at Home Affairs and five at Security and Justice. It is a good thing that there are so few. It's supposed to be zero. Is the Minister confident that all ministries have reported this in a prudent manner in the Annual Reporting Company Rijk? My second question to the Minister concerns an investigation by the General Journal. In that they really made some pretty spicy remarks. Does the Minister know about this investigation? Could there have been any surprises for him, including the National Service? Then I'd like to hear that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr President, thank you. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Middendorp, who kept a wonderful and personal story. Thank you! Mr. Chairman. The government must be a place for people involved who want to contribute to our country, people who work against a fair salary day in, day out to make the Netherlands better. They deserve our appreciation. But what doesn't deserve our appreciation are excessive salaries in the government. In the examples we are debating, this is a manager who earned €228,000 from the municipality of Eindhoven, a managing director who received a quarter million euros from the municipality of Almere and a project manager who received €266,000 from the municipality of Teylingen. I looked it up because I didn't know Teylingen. This municipality has about 37,000 inhabitants and is located somewhere near Leiden. It was formed by merging a number of municipalities, including Warmond. If you pay €266,000 for a year, it must be very complicated issues. Mr. Chairman. These kinds of rewards undermine people's trust in government. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. While people in the country feel far too little of economic growth, they see reports that outsiders in the government are being generously rewarded. And that is unacceptable. That is why we need to take measures as soon as possible to prevent the hiring of generously paid external workers from the government. First of all, by restricting their rewards. There is currently a maximum rate of €225 for hire. In addition, external top officials hired may earn €258,000 in the first year. That's absurdly high, isn't it? Is the Minister prepared to lower these limits immediately? I'd like a response. In addition, we externals in the government should also be included under the Standards Act. I wonder if the Minister is prepared to do so. I have studied the reasons why that is not possible and frankly I do not understand it. I think it is extremely vaguely worded. Can the Minister explain to me why he does not want externals to be covered by the Standards Act? I'd like a response. The hiring of externals is a temporary solution. We often see that what begins when a temporary solution goes on for far too long. I've been there myself with the government. In a crisis situation, we often opt for a solution that we believe will take about a month, and then we will be about a year later. The people who are hired then continue to earn the same salary. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether it would not be appropriate to set a maximum time limit for the hiring of external forces. I would like to get a response to this point. Finally, the standard of 10% externals in the government is systematically exceeded. That is wrong and we ask the Minister what he is going to do about it. Many externalities are also employed by other governments. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to reach agreements with local authorities and semi-governments, so that they will apply the maximum hourly wage and the maximum standard for external hire. Can the Minister address the question of whether the accountability provided by municipalities and provinces is sufficiently clear for council members and members of the State to be able to exercise their control role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you. The Minister can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Middendorp. I thought he was part of it a long time ago, but it's nice to hear his maiden speech on this occasion. Congratulations! Mr. Chairman. No cabinet in our history has done as much to limit the top incomes in the public sector as the present-day cabinet. Two years ago, we made an international comparison which shows that there is no country in the world, as far as we can see, where top incomes in the public sector are as severely limited as in the Netherlands. Let me get this straight for a minute. At the start of this cabinet we introduced the Standards Act top incomes. We maintained it. That wasn't always easy, because all kinds of people are going to see what is and isn't covered by it. Inspection must be carried out and reported on. We have been reluctant to allow exceptions. There was, of course, a certain tendency to put whole categories under the exceptions, but we did not. We have repaired the law, for example, to prevent misuse. For example, there was a practice that people in two places had an appointment of 0.7 fte. That was allowed by the law at first, but we repaired it. This is now limited by an anti-cumulative clause; it can no longer be done. We then reduced the ceiling of the law by €50,000, from €230,000 to €180,000. Because the distribution of income is a bell curve, the area under the curve, the number of people affected by it, suddenly increases enormously. It comes much closer to salaries that are earned on the left and right. We have maintained this, again from 2015. I then made a bill to extend the scope of the law. Not only to directors, as according to the current law adopted by parliament, but also to non-drivers. Mr Van Raak asked if he could get the draft of that law. The answer is yes, you can. I refer him to www.internetconsultations.nl. That is where the law as originally drafted by me has been made public. So it's available there. That bill was amended on points after the consultation and then sent to the Council of State for advice. I have put it to you for a moment: Article 26 of the Law on the Council of State states that I may not disclose the opinion of the Council of State until it is sent to the House of Representatives with the further report and the legislative proposal amended by the government. This government isn't gonna do that anymore. I would add that the Internet consultation has shown that extending the law to a much larger profession leads to all kinds of political discussions. How do you deal with air traffic control and with medical specialists and so on? It is therefore a matter for political decision-making. I have all kinds of ideas about that, but that's really... We are indeed outgoing, and we can no longer come up with an undisputed legislative proposal on this point, no doubt in this Chamber. I cannot therefore make him public, but once again: anyone interested in the body of the law, I refer to the internet consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u29	That there's a political discussion about a law, we can have it as a Lower House. We get that a lot. But it's a law that's part of the government agreement on WNT1, 2, 3. I'm just asking the Minister to do his job. I stand here defending the coalition agreement! I'm just asking him to file it and I don't know why that wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u30	We have applied for our resignation from the King and he has informed us that he is asking us to do what is still necessary for the sake of the country. That is the wording that indicates that, as a outgoing cabinet, you have to limit yourself, for example, in the matters that you propose to the House of Representatives. That is the state of affairs and I cannot do much about it. I've been sticking to the law all these years, and I wish that last one was what? I'll do it for three weeks. I therefore adhere to the Act on the Council of State, Article 26, which says that I cannot make that public at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u32	It's possible! I'll ask the House of Representatives to do the same. It is true that the Minister is a missionary and I think he will be for a while. But this Chamber is not, and the Chamber can make any request to the government. In recent weeks, the Chamber has done so on all kinds of issues. I will ask the Chamber to do the same on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr President, I would like to say in advance that I find a request to break the law unacceptable. So I will not implement that, whatever that request is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u34	But it's open to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u35	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u36	How can the Minister break the law if there is a law in the Ministry and the Chamber of Representatives the Chamber! Asking for that law to be sent to the House of Representatives? I wouldn't know how the minister could break the law with that, or he would have to run a red light on the way with his van.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u37	Because I cannot disclose the bill and the further report of the Council of State until the Cabinet has decided to adopt the further report. I'm not gonna send that to the room before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u38	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u39	The Chamber could ask you to do that, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u40	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u41	Over the past few weeks, the Chamber has asked the government and the cabinet for everything. Emergency laws have even been dealt with here. In one day! So that's what the Chamber can just ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u42	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u43	The Chamber can ask for anything, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I am really proud of what we have done in this period to limit top incomes. I have yet to see that in the new period this will continue to the same extent and at the same pace. Again, internationally, we have reduced top incomes further than anywhere else. And the good news is that the evaluation indeed shows that this has not been at the expense of quality in the public sector. There have been Members of the Chamber who have said 'we want to look very closely at this' and I can imagine that. I am therefore pleased to report that so far this has not happened with the law as we have it. After that brief introductory remark, first something about the external hire. For the Empire, the standard is up to 10% and an hour of €225. If a minister thinks he has a reason to make an exception to that rule, Mrs Bruins Slot has already referred to this in the annual report. That is then not for my assessment but for the assessment of the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives can always say that it believes that this has been done unjustly and that something else must be done. That is the opportunity to do so. Moreover, there were six cases in total and therefore it is also very limited in the state services. I read the research in the A.D. This concerns semi-governments and local authorities. It was found that 20 cases of exceedance were identified. I realize that doesn't have to be exhausting, so there could be more. I would like to point out that this whole sector includes 950,000 staff, of which 109 000 are in the state service and 180,000 are in the municipalities and provinces. You must keep that order of magnitude in mind. How do I feel about that? Well, I find all sorts of things, and if the example of Teylingen is mentioned here, then you can have all kinds of views about it. However, we have so far established the inter-administrative relations here in the Chamber in such a way that the local government is accountable to the local council on the ground. It must be judged whether this exception is justified, yes or no. So I sometimes have a hesitation sometimes in an exception that is made somewhere, but that is not up to me. There are municipal councils in all these municipalities and those are husbands and wives enough to ring the bell themselves if they think that there is wrongly exceeded. I do, of course, agree with the trend in demand. If we can limit ourselves to a handful of exceptions in the Empire, with 109,000 people sitting in all those departments, then I do not see why these exceptions would be necessary in a medium-sized municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u44	I have a question about city councils and provinces. The problem is that it is not clear from these annual reports for many council members and also for provinces what the external hire is. There are no guidelines for that. It's a cumulative thing that's in those reports. The way in which these annual reports have been drawn up makes it difficult for council members to see this and to take responsibility and play their part. Does the Minister see an opportunity to improve these annual reports? Can he say: if there is an improvement point, then this is it, because if you want to be able to take responsibility, is it important to get an insight into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u45	I assume from Mrs Özütok that it is true. I do not know at the moment whether it is true that this is not to be taken out of the annual reports of municipalities. If that is the case, I base myself on it and I can imagine that I, or my successor, will be referring to it in a subsequent administrative consultation with the UNG. In fact, it seems to me that, if the city council supervises this, it is reasonable for the city council to be able to do the same. It does not require legislation to agree to do so. Once again, I do not know what this is about in the average municipality at the moment, but I agree to raise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u47	We talked about WNT3. We have already discussed Mr Van Raak's question in the case of interruption. Mr Van Dijk is ahead of us. I recognize a lot in his view of the WNT3, which won't surprise him, but well, he's going to see the treatment and I'm going to see it with interest from the bank at home. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me if I have any confidence in the accuracy of the Empire's annual reports, if I understand correctly. Yes, I have no reason to doubt that. I don't think you're gonna get away with it as a department if you report wrong. That is also monitored, so yes, I have faith in that. The answer is that I have faith in that. I answered the A.D. investigation. Mr Azarkan referred to the municipality of Teylingen. I answered that, too. On the question of whether I am still prepared to push those limits, to lower the standard and to shorten the time limit, I cannot promise that anymore. I understand the point, but I can't go any further than I am now. But once again, and I would like to conclude with that: I think that we have come a very long way in this period in terms of limiting top incomes, and I wish you good luck in the coming years as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u48	I must compliment the efforts made to reduce top incomes. The Minister has also indicated this. When it comes to deviations, the principle of comply or explain applies. Shouldn't the term "improve" be added to that? Then you not only indicate why you deviate, but also how you can restore that in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's a new thought for me. It seems to me that the Chamber could check whether the explanation, the explanation of why the standard is not met, indicates whether it is permanent or temporary. If the Court considers that the argument is reasonable, but that this should not last forever, it may express that view. The Minister will then be able to address them. I can imagine that someone is temporarily hired on a particular specialism, but if that is for ten years, then a normal employment can also be achieved. In this case, the normal standards apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u50	I see that there is a need for a second term. I call Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you, Mr President. It is still not clear to me what the Minister is doing after ministries have explained it and the opinion is that this explanation is sufficient. What follow-up are there? I think the Minister has overlooked this question, but I would like to have an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u52	I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to send the Top Income Standards Act 3 to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11490-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first concerns the decision on the budget and accountability. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Decision does not distinguish between staff costs incurred by staff employed by a decentralised government and the costs associated with hiring staff;]] [[considers that transparency and the supervisory role of council members and members of states are of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to change the Budget and Accountability Decision in such a way as to provide clearer insight into the amounts spent by local authorities on external hiring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the application of provisions of the Top Income Standards Act (WNT) applies the principle of applying or explaining to ministries;]] [[Considers that in the case of excessive remuneration ministries should not only explain but also be better served;]] [[calls on the Government to make it a standard policy for ministries not only to apply only to or explain the infringement of the WNT, but also to explain how the WNT will be met in the short term (to apply or explain and improve),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11490-230]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11490-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u54	You didn't understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yes, but we'll adjust it to the motion. Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Madam President. My answer to Mrs Özütok's question as to what I am doing with that explanation is that I am actually not supposed to do anything about it at the time. The Minister himself justifies in his or her annual report to the Lower House why an exception has been made to the rule regarding the external hire. It is then up to the Court to examine whether it agrees with the annual report or the budget. I can advise colleagues, but the statement, the explanation, Madam President-in-Office, must go to the Chamber and be examined there. So I have no role to play in this. Mr Van Raak's motion for a resolution 229 I advise, because it is at odds with the missionary nature of the cabinet. The first motion tabled by Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the For his second motion, that in part No. 231, in principle the same request or the same suggestion applies. For both of them, if they were to be put to the vote now, I would have no choice but to discourage them. Just for the record on the second motion: strictly speaking, the principle of limiting the external hire does not flow from the Top Income Standards Act. But this aside, for the record, as a comment. In my view, that is what I have discussed all the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u58	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the Minister and his official support and the people who have followed this debate and close the sitting.
