ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science and to give Mr Kwint the floor on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker. Speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget: there is a great disagreement in this Chamber about what to do with the austerity in the field of education deficit policy as proposed by the present cabinet. I'm not pretending to solve that today. Where there is no or almost no disagreement, the importance of good education deficit policy is to ensure that the fine words we are talking about here about equal opportunities and education as an emancipation engine can actually be realised. It is therefore an almost shockingly reasonable proposal from my hand and from the hands of Mrs Van den Hul, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kuzu. Not to wipe out the austerity now, but to at least suspend this austerity until a new cabinet has been able to formulate a new vision of education deficit policy, so that we do not turn our backs on all kinds of beautiful projects and then, in a year's time, have to rebuild them. This is a) not good for the children and b) not good for the public purse. Everyone knows that stopping and starting over is often more expensive than just going ahead with it, especially for the short period for which it is still necessary. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EUR 65 million reduction in educational disadvantage policies in 2018 threatens to eliminate good initiatives put in place by municipalities and schools;]] [[Whereas virtually every major subject in education has been declared controversial by reference to the new coalition negotiations currently taking place, but this austerity seems to continue;]] [[Considers that, as the VNG and the PO Council also point out, the proposed austerity significantly reduces the objective of equal opportunities in and through education;]] [[calls on the government to suspend the €65 million cut in education deficits at least for the time being and to leave the decision to a new cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27020-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Equal opportunities in education. That is a discussion that we have had more often in the past period. Equal opportunities in education is at the heart of a just society. That is why, as DENK, we have also signed the motion of the SP together with the colleagues of the PvdA and GroenLinks to at least suspend the austerity until a next cabinet has been able to look at it. Soon Mrs Westerveld will table a number of motions that we will sign along with. I still have my own motion. It deals with the no-regret measures contained in the interdepartmental policy investigation. There are a number of measures that we can simply take, regardless of the direction that we are going to take later on with the education deficit policy. The Chamber may rule on that. The Secretary of State states that these measures are for a subsequent cabinet, but since we will not stand in the way of any subsequent cabinet with these measures, we as a Chamber can now give a ruling on them. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the inter-departmental policy research a number of no-regret measures have been proposed, which can be taken regardless of the possible choices made in future policy variants and whatever direction is chosen for educational disadvantage policies;]] [[considers that every effort should be made to reduce educational disadvantages;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt and implement all no-regret measures in the inter-departmental policy investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27020-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	I will give an example of one of these no-regret measures, because I would really like to recommend it to my colleagues. One of the opinions is the formulation of new objectives for educational disadvantage policy. If these objectives are to be achieved, then at a later stage, when there is a new cabinet, we can have a debate on them so that we can tighten them up. I therefore strongly recommend this to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Children in the Netherlands have no equal opportunities in education. The cabinet says it wants to reduce inequality of opportunity, but in reality it cuts 100 million on children who can use support. This is the reversed world, especially since this austerity is based on an outdated indicator, which is independent of reality. GroenLinks does not want to cut deficits. We are happy to have the discussion as soon as we know what is really needed. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current indicator used to allocate resources for educational disadvantage policies is not working properly;]] [[noting that the CBS has developed an indicator that can better predict educational disadvantages;]] [[noting that the €100 million cut planned for the educational disadvantage policy for schools and municipalities is based on the old indicator;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the new CBS indicator, it is possible that the expected educational disadvantages in children are greater than currently covered;]] [[Whereas the government is going to propose a new funding system and the size of the future target group;]] [[calls on the government not to cut the deficit policy in advance while it remains unclear what the size of the target group is according to the improved indicator and how much resources are needed to reduce the backlog of these children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kuzu and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27020-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	My second motion concerns the draining of budgets. We can reverse budget austerity, but in reality schools are also getting less because parents are increasingly educated. But this does not mean that the actual educational disadvantages are getting worse. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current indicator used to allocate resources for educational disadvantage policies does not adequately predict the risk of educational disadvantage;]] [[Whereas funding for schools based on school weights has been falling for years, but education deficits have not declined;]] [[Whereas this emptiness of the weight regime increases the inequality of opportunity;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate schools for the emptiness of the weight regulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27020-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Court has been given an overview of the reduction in the resources for educational disadvantages faced by the various municipalities. I have the list here in my hand. Amsterdam and Rotterdam are declining by more than 6 million and The Hague as much as 4.5 million. But it doesn't just go wrong in the big cities. Haarlem, Deventer and Roermond are also reduced by 11%. The bright point in this list is the municipality of Waadhoeke I had to look it up in Friesland, with 179.000 in the plus, but that makes the general picture anything but right. This has a major impact on the policies of these cities and the involvement of municipalities and schools in combating and eliminating educational disadvantages. Last year, the PvdA presented the Equal Opportunities Initiative Paper. That's what the government's been working on. The reduction in educational deficits runs counter to policies that fit the government's commitment to equal opportunities in education, as we discussed here in this Chamber several times last year. It is therefore wise that a newly developed distribution system should be transferred to a subsequent cabinet, partly because there is now no support for the VNG and the PO Council and because there is uncertainty about the distribution effects. As far as we are concerned, it is very unwise and undesirable that the reduction in budgets should be continued, while a new distribution system has been pushed forward. This is going to have major effects and cannot count on the desired support from the UNG and the PO Council. That is why I have tabled the motions that have just been read together with Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuzu. We ask for a logical and reasonable route. We believe that this commitment contributes to equal educational opportunities. For that is what we are standing here for: equal opportunities for every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	I understand all this from colleagues Kwint, Westerveld and Kuzu. I have stood there for years with similar stories, in front of a cabinet of which Mrs van den Hul's party was fully part. The latter is the case to this day. So who is Mrs Van den Hul actually talking to here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm talking to you and your colleagues from the forming parties, and I'm talking to this cabinet. I would remind Mr Van Meenen that I do not think he has listened very carefully. At the end of 2015, Mr Yücel tabled a motion asking the cabinet to examine the resources needed for an effective and nationwide vve policy, and my predecessors in my group have continued this course all along. It surprises me that this sounds like a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	No, this doesn't sound like a surprise to me at all. In fact, my name is under that motion. This has been an attempt to influence the policy of the VVD's cabinet and the PvdA, without any success. My point is that you are doing something again here in the wake of this cabinet yesterday, and we have seen a few examples of this: the group is voting against the current Minister's policy and I wonder whether it is not even time for the Labour Party to say quite honestly that it has done its best but that it has simply not managed to do it in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	I don't think this is the platform to evaluate my party's course. Mr Van Meenen sees an inconsistency, but I do not see it. We are very consistent in this. Read our election programmes: we are in favour of equal opportunities in education for every child. This cabinet has also taken steps in this area. With that in mind, we are now critical of the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	Can the Secretary of State answer immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	One minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	The Secretary of State needs a minute. So we wait a minute. I see that the Secretary of State can begin his reply and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that we had a written exchange of views on completing education deficits policy. There has been a number of discussions in the plenary on this issue, the adjustments to the estimates for the part of the schools and the municipalities. These estimates are strongly linked to the decline in the number of pupils and the level of education of the Dutch, which is on average increasing. This is also reflected in the available resources for educational disadvantage policies. For the sake of clarity, I would like to comment on the motions that have been tabled. I think that most of the arguments will then also go over the table. The first motion, the motion in part No. 74, by Mr Kwint and asks that this whole matter be suspended and left to a new cabinet. I think that is unwise for a number of reasons. That is why I would advise against the motion. The revision of the estimates we are talking about is already included in the multiannual budget of the Empire. It is no longer up to this cabinet to make adjustments to that now. So we are dealing with an existing financial framework with which we have to work. This also requires us to make it clear to the outside world, to the schools and to the municipalities. Perhaps a new cabinet will change that, but we are dealing with the current situation, which we need to be able to translate. For schools, this means that not so much changes, because for a school the same amount remains for each school weight. That amount does not go up or down; it just remains the same amount. For municipalities this means a small adjustment. This is on average about 11% next year, but this decline is many times lower than the decline in the number of target children faced by municipalities. In my view, that should be acceptable. This means that municipalities should still be able to set up good VVE facilities for the target children, i.e. for the children who really need those facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Secretary of State says that we need to clarify schools and municipalities. I have not checked with all the schools and municipalities, but I have the feeling that they prefer a decision by this Chamber that more money will be available for their work rather than the clarity that they will lose money. I didn't call them all, but I'm willing to bet on it. I understand that the Secretary of State is not ready to suspend this austerity, because he himself has decided to do so, but would there be practical problems if the Chamber did decide to do so? According to the Secretary of State, what would be the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	We are dealing with a budget. I think it was approved by this Chamber. This means that the Chamber has instructed me to give schools and municipalities clarity about what they will get next year. If the House decides by a majority that more money is needed, then I am the one who goes on the road to tell municipalities and schools that they are getting more money, but until then I will carry out what the Chamber has given me. These are the current budgetary frameworks. This discussion has been going on for some time now, but I also note that in budgetary debates there are many arguments on and on the table, but so far this has not led to a financial amendment which has led to the addition of that budget. Once that is the case, you can go to the field with another message, but there is nothing to suspend at the moment, because we simply have to deal with the budget with which the Chamber has sent us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think we have to deal with that until the Chamber decides otherwise. The proposal now before us is precisely that the Chamber should decide otherwise, namely to suspend it. However, I am glad that in principle there are no practical problems for the Secretary of State if this proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	The Secretary of State on the motion in part No. 74.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	Maybe I'll just go back a little bit. There's nothing to suspend. Then the House must come up with an amendment which says that we are getting 65 million from there, and that is what we are putting into this. Then we'll talk about something. We are now dealing with a financial framework for 2018. I think I should pass that on to practice. In that sense, I advise against the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 75 by Mr Kuzu. That is not a financially motivated motion, but it actually asks the government to start working on a number of things. In the written reply, I indicated that some of these things are already going on and that I am taking them in. Some of the non-financial measures also relate to the objectives of new policies, and I really do not think it is right for this cabinet to set new objectives for education deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	Then the motion to part No. 76 which states: Do not go ahead and make cuts if you are working on a new indicator. This motion assumes that, in that CBS study and with that new indicator, we will determine the exact size of the target group. That is not the case. The CBS makes a prediction model that is more accurate than the prediction model we now have. That only looks at educational attainment and the CBS looks at some more indicators. This is without prejudice to the fact that it does not show how many delays there are in the Netherlands. In that sense, I think it would be unwise to wait for that, and I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 76. Then the motion to part No. 77. I have already said that schools receive the same money for every pupil weight they have, as much as last year and the year before. So the amount per school weight doesn't go down. It is possible that a school with fewer weight pupils, less disadvantaged children, may be involved. I find it difficult to compensate for that. You have to pay late money for disadvantaged children, and that is the best indicator we have at the moment. I would also advise against this motion, regardless of the fact that if you want to compensate, that extra money would be required and that this motion lacks cover for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	I have the impression that there is some misunderstanding about what we intend to do with our first motion, the motion in part No. 76. We say that we must first better identify how many pupils are lagging behind. This can be done on the basis of the new indicator, which is a lot better than the old indicator. Then let us have this debate together instead of cutting back now and then putting forward a new indicator that can better assess which children need extra support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	That also requires financial support, because if you ask, you ask for an extension of the estimate adjustment. When the previous budget was discussed, many arguments were exchanged on and on, but this did not lead to an adjustment of the budget by the Chamber. I don't know how you're doing this now one-two-three. In fact, I already put the question on the table at the time, and I also put it on the table at the PO Council and the VNG, whether, now that there is a better indicator, we should work with a new indicator next year. Then it was said that we do not want to do that, we want to take everything with us at once and we are waiting for a new cabinet. The downside of that decision is indeed "b" and they knew that if the budget stays the same, you will have to deal with a decline in funds of around 10% to 11% for each municipality for 2018. That is what we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	I believe that at least the call that sounds between the lines has arrived. I would like to ask a question about the motion on item No. 77 and the explanation given by the Secretary of State. We ask the government to compensate schools for the emptiness of the weight regulation. This is what this is about. There are more highly educated parents, which, according to the definition, changes the number of pupils with an extra weight. But that doesn't say anything about the real number of students who need extra support. That is why we say: let us compensate schools, because that number of pupils is by definition falling, but not necessarily in reality. In fact, we are asking that money should continue to go to those schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would like to take away the idea that the way we finance schools now has nothing to do with lagging behind. That would be really weird, too. It would also be the bankruptcy of recent years: then we would have given schools money on the basis of something that makes no sense. That is not the case. These apprenticeship weights based on very low parental education are one of the most predictable factors of children's risk of retardation. In fact, even in the newly developed CBS indicator, the educational level of parents is the most important factor in this respect. So this is still very much in play. Schools have to deal with demographic changes; for example, some cities have to deal with more and more highly educated parents, due to higher house prices and so on. I don't think it's so crazy that we're giving those schools a little less money for educational disadvantages. So I wouldn't be in favour of compensating for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	We're definitely going to vote on the motions. We still have to determine when, because next Tuesday is Prince's Day.
