ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the government wants to improve the quality of buildings. It consists of two parts. The first part concerns changes to the Housing Act and the General Environmental Law Provisions Act. The preventive assessment by the competent authority of construction regulations in the assessment of the application for an environmental permit for construction shall expire. Instead, the applicant shall use a quality assurance instrument during construction. The aim of this instrument is to achieve a building which complies with the technical building regulations. In short: the supervision of the construction goes from public to private. The second part improves the position of the construction consumer or the client, whatever you want to call it, through some adjustments in the Civil Code regarding the contractor's liability for hidden defects, the suspension of payment by the client and the introduction of an information obligation on the contractor. This bill has been worked on for a long time. Many parties have been involved, the Lower House has made its mark on it by amending it and now it is the question whether it can pass the test of criticism in the First Chamber. There's a lot to say about this bill. We did so in the written round. The transmission of the draft decision has clarified a number of issues and the reply was detailed, for which I would like to thank you. This means that we can now confine ourselves to the remaining key points, and they relate in particular to the amendment of the law. Frankly, the amendment in the Lower House did not make the legislative proposal any better and clearer. Take the amendment in part No. 16 and that in part No. 17. The amendment in part No. 16 introduces a risk assessment to be submitted at the time of the application for authorisation where the preventive test by municipalities lapses. What do you mean, "preventive test expires by the competent authority"? What does this mean for the liability of that same competent authority? The amendment in part No. 17 deals with two matters: firstly, the introduction of a transfer file and, secondly, the establishment of rules on the final notification to the competent authority. The author of the amendment explains, inter alia,: "If the competent authority concludes that the contractor has not (yet) made (fully) plausible that the legal requirements have been met, the contraaing authority may, in the event of a prohibition on commissioning or announcing a penalty charge, if certain provisions have not been made within a specified period, address the contraaor because he is responsible for the transfer file and compliance with the contract." Please note that this transfer file already has the approval of the quality assurance officer, which is considered to take over the tasks of former building and housing supervision. The CDA Group has taken good note of the Minister's reply to our written questions that it is not the intention of the municipality, being the competent authority, to repeat the work of the quality assurance authority and itself to assess the content of the file in order to determine whether the building complies with the building regulations. That would lead to duplication, the Minister says. The CDA Group shares that view. Municipalities and VNG don't want that either. The members of the CDA Group therefore ask the Minister what prompted him not to advise against this amendment. After all, if the file cannot be assessed by the competent authority, is it not superfluous? And isn't that an unnecessary task for the author of this file? And isn't it the consumer who gets the costs passed on? In other words, does this not create a new bureaucracy? We realize that the Minister only dealt with this bill on the other side in the second term, and his predecessor, Minister Blok, was less friendly about the amendments in the first period, but still... According to the current responsible minister, the "great profit" lies in this after the construction has been put into operation. Thus, according to the Minister in the reply, if the circumstances give rise to it, the competent authority may require an infringement to be undone by a penalty payment or otherwise. A file for the competent authority which is not sent to the competent authority without the consent of the quality assurance officer, which must not be reviewed by the competent authority, must apparently serve as a stick behind the door. This is either putting the horse behind the cart or making an assessment prior to its entry into service, and is questionable in terms of the contractor's liability, since the quality assurance officer has already issued an approval certificate. Do you still get it? Logic escapes the CDA group. The VNG has also lost track. According to her, the bill is now linked to two thoughts and the CDA Group shares that. On the one hand, this legislative proposal transfers the role of municipalities to the quality assurance authority and does not allow the municipality to interfere in its content, but on the other hand, municipalities are expected to maintain the proportionality of signals, enforcement requests and ready-to-use notification, which in turn requires a balance based on information. For the VNG an incompatible mix. For the CDA Group, too. For us, it is one thing: either they are there for supervision, they are allowed to interfere and therefore have the means to do so, or you remove the substantive consideration from the municipalities. Rotterdam, Amsterdam, The Hague and Utrecht also have the necessary critical comments on the amendment. We ask for a response from the Minister. Building, like everywhere else, things right and things wrong. This bill also seeks to better regulate liability for the things that go wrong. The addition of a fourth paragraph of the bill to Article 758 BW stipulates that "in the case of the adoption of construction works, the contractor shall be liable for defects which have not been detected when the work is completed, unless such defects are not attributable to the contractor. This may not be waived to the detriment of the contraaing authority in so far as it is a natural person who does not act in the exercise of a profession or business. In other cases, derogations may be granted if this is expressly provided for in the Agreement." In short, if you're a private builder, you can't deviate from it, you're a larger, professional client or a non-private, you can, but then you have to be dismissed from that obligation. Well, if you see it happen... The CDA group actually went a bit far. When building private individuals: fine. But tying large, professional clients with that private, did not bring warm feelings to the CDA group. With the amendment adopted in part No. In fact, 15 propose to strengthen the contractor's obligation to give notice of errors and defects. To this end, a second paragraph has been added to Article 354 BW which provides for a warning to be given in writing and unambiguous upon the adoption of a building and the contraaor informs the contraaing authority in good time of the possible consequences for the proper performance of the contract. On the surface you might say that there is nothing wrong with warning, written and unambiguous, but the venom is in the tail. In this case, this is in the explanatory statement to the amendment, which increases the contractor's liability which the CDA Group considers unreasonable. Some passages in the explanatory memorandum: "The amendment aims to promote the obligation of warning to ensure that the client is well informed about the risks of the construction being delivered with defects in cases where, for example, the contractor carries out a design submitted by the contractor. If the contractor has not warned, where he should have noticed these shortcomings, he shall be liable for the damage caused by them. The contractor must be able to rely on the construction plan or plan. not only does the specifications seek to award a prize, but also all his expertise to ensure that he can make the requested without (large risks of) faults or defects. The contractor can therefore only withdraw from his obligation of warning on a very exceptional basis." This implies that this warning by the contractor would be possible even in the case of the procurement of works. However, it is not that simple. That's not how tendering works. The Minister's reply during the written round was also clear. Another passage: "The obligation to warn should also be used for matters that the client, his designer or supervisor wants to see realised at the start or during construction but which the contractor is not sure he can make without problems. In the context of the obligation of warning, the contraaing authority may follow the contractor's advice on alternative solutions and thereby reduce the risks of defects. If the contraaing authority nevertheless wishes to be realized, further agreements should be made on liability and the contraaor may, if necessary, decide not to carry out the contract (longer).' Another passage: "If the client does not want to respect the contractor's written warning, the contractor would be wise to refuse the (additional) order on penalty that he could otherwise be held liable for defects." The members of the CDA Group wonder whether reality and reasonableness are being ignored here. Of course it's okay to warn a contractor. We support that. As clear as possible, so written is fine. But how real is it to assume that a contractor is such an equal partner of a large professional client that his advice will always be followed? And how real is it then, if, despite the warning, a client wishes to maintain his mission, to think that the client will dismiss the contractor from his liability? And how realistic is it to say that if the contraaing authority does not discharge the contraaor from his liability at that point, then the contraaor will have to resign his work because, if he does not, he is still liable? A half-finished complex... do you see it? And if the contractor can afford the luxury of deciding to do the job, it will also have consequences for payment, equipment and staff. How much thought has been given to that? Advisors and architects are often used in large assignments before and during construction. Is it reasonable to hold contractors liable for their mistakes? Are the mistakes of advisers and architects, if not detected by the contractor, not more fair to be attributed to the client? Is it not already getting off on the wrong foot by saying that a contractor can have a decisive influence on this in the procurement process? Contrary to the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, the Minister writes in response to our written questions, also based on other articles cited by the CDA Group in the Civil Code: "If it appears that a construction method imposed by the client leads to a defect for which the contractor has warned or that it was reasonably not foreseeable by the contractor, this defect cannot be attributed to the contractor and is not liable for it." This response contradicts the explanatory statement of the amendment incorporated in this legislative proposal. Furthermore, the Minister writes: "The starting point is now that the contractor is liable for defects that have not been detected during delivery, unless they are not attributable to the contractor. The liability of the contractor no longer depends on the moment of delivery, but on whether a lack of him is attributable. However, the court can still take account of the specific circumstances of the case when allocating liability to the contractor. For example, under Article 6:89 BW, the client will still have to address the contractor within a reasonable period of time, after discovering the defect, and under Article 6:248 BW, the judge will not only take into account the legal effects agreed by the parties, but will also look at those resulting from the nature of the contract, from the law, the custom or the demands of reasonableness and fairness. In doing so, the court may, for example, take into account the extent to which the defect is attributable to the contractor when the contractor can prove that a defect has arisen outside his fault or that the contraaing authority itself or experts employed by him have had a share in it." The members of the CDA Group ask the Minister what version is leading: the explanation of the amendment or the written reply of the Minister? And if it is the Minister's explanation, what does this mean for the amendment incorporated into the law? Isn't that also explicitly the case that it's up to the client to prove that it's not his fault? Unclearness and confusion trumps. For legislation to get off on the wrong foot. There is much more to be said about this law. For the sake of time, we will not do this now. More topics will undoubtedly be covered in this debate. In this first term, we confine ourselves to these two main points: municipalities and the liability of contractors. It has been worked on for a long time, but in the end only the clients in construction seem to be happy with it. Although, also the Association Eigen Huis has withdrawn the support for this bill. Such a major change in the system deserves better. The Minister's answer will strongly determine the final balance of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this proposal is to improve the quality of construction by strengthening the private-law position of private and business construction consumers, and by introducing a new system of quality assurance for buildings. Or as nicely expressed by the consulting construction industry: it makes the supplier responsible for what he delivers, so that the customer or customer gets what has been agreed. The need for quality assurance is demonstrated by many private customers who were supplied with something different, or of a different quality than was agreed or expected, and who subsequently ended up in a legal marsh. Everyone knows the stories. The London tragedy has recently shown the need to ensure the safety of building materials, for example. This proposal has been under way for decades. In 2008 a step towards this proposal was taken by the Dekker Committee in its report "Private what can, public what should." In fact, this proposal implements what Dekker c.s. At the time, I suggested it. The most important change is that the position of the construction consumer has become much more central, balancing public and private responsibilities. It is important to be absolutely clear which roles the parties have in the construction process. For those who have to work with this law, this proposal is a major change. Competent and responsibilities shall be adapted for all parties. Moreover, in the long term, the law will become part of the Environment Act and for another part become part of the intended Building Act environment, in which in turn the current Building Decision will be incorporated. All this will require a very careful implementation process. The D66 Group supports the principles of this law, namely better building quality, better legal status for consumers and lower charges and fees, but is concerned about implementation and implementation. Much will still have to be settled in one or more AMvBs. We would like to keep our finger on the pulse and assume that these AMvBs will also be submitted to this Chamber. I'd like a commitment. Consumers will need to be made aware of the need to strengthen their position and to provide clear information on the rights and obligations of all those involved. For consumers, they do not come into daily contact with such procedures. It is precisely for this reason that information should not be given on a one-off basis, but on a continuous basis. We assume that the Ministry will provide information for the introduction of the law, but who will then ensure that the consumer knows about his changing position? In a response, which included the input of the G32, the Association for Construction and Housing Supervision of the Netherlands and the security regions, the VNG pointed to the implementation risks that could arise from overly rapid deployment. They ask for agreements on new pilots, implementation guidance, cost monitoring, the necessary digitisation and the transition situation. In our opinion, their concerns are supported by the closure of the pilots in The Hague and Rotterdam. The parties did not appear to have the same picture of how the law should work and what responsibility both the public and the private parties have. In view of the number of implementation issues, our group wonders whether it is not advisable to introduce the law on 1 January 2019. There is still a great deal to be done. The D66 Group would also like to see the intermediate steps still to be taken monitored and the results made available to the Chambers before further steps are taken. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. How does the Minister intend to shape the process of introduction, step by step? What is the role of the UNG, with which it undoubtedly conducts administrative consultations on this issue? At the front, it must be clear how the powers are now divided. The law changes the position of municipalities when it comes to enforcement issues. There is still a lot of uncertainty about that. Is it not advisable to make explicit that the municipality does not have a substantive consideration role, but can apply interventions to signals, enforcement requests and ready notifications? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The House of Representatives introduced a number of amendments to the draft law before us. The delivery file to be submitted by the introduction of Article 757a BW is separate from the file to be submitted to the competent authority. Two dossiers must therefore be produced, one for the competent authority and the other for the client, with different content. This will increase the administrative burden for the quality assurance officer and the contractor, who will end up with the client. How does that relate to the alleged reduction of charges that is the purpose of the bill? The fee will go down, but does this also mean that the overall administrative burden for the different parties will be reduced? The D66 Group envisages that the time of delivery with an administrative notification, the statement by the quality assurance officer and any action by the competent authority will lead to a great deal of uncertainty and thus risks. Can it be that a building is put into operation without informing the competent authority? Is it not advisable to be able to supply parts within the permit earlier and to make agreements on them? It should also be included in the decision that the procedure must be completed before the construction is put into operation. To this end, the Building Decision 2012 still needs to be amended. What does this mean, for example, for fire safety and its monitoring? Are they locked up? At the time of commissioning, the municipality is under pressure. It must take a decision to enter into service within 10 days. What if the municipality has a serious suspicion that the requirements have not been met? How can it then impose a ban on use so that further investigations can be carried out? This is an essential issue for the role that municipalities are going to play, even after the amendments that have been tabled in the House of Representatives, as demonstrated by the response of the G-4. Our group believes that this Chamber would do well to consider whether a systematic execution test should not be one of its tools. After all, the implementation practice is also central in this Chamber. But how can we judge that? In preparing this contribution, I increasingly felt that it would be good to have this instrument at my disposal. That is why I am asking the Minister an ultimate question: what is the Minister's confidence in the net useful contribution this law can make to the implementation of the legislator's objectives? The D66 Group awaits the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. More quality in construction, who isn't for that now? Unfortunately, despite the efforts of many construction companies, construction has a lean image when it comes to monitoring its own quality. It just goes wrong too many times, too many times. In the new building in particular, the number of complaints concerning, for example, the delivery of a home is persistently high. On average around fifteen defects is no exception. Buyers have almost started to consider that normal, but it's not. A whole market of building engineers, lawyers and consultancy firms has been created in our country to assist you in the delivery of a new building or another building. Anyone who picks up the key to his new home without a hired builder from, for example, Vereniging Eigen Huis or another professional takes a huge risk. Actually, that's very strange. Imagine if you couldn't pick up your new computer without an ICT driver at your side or if you were only able to receive a new car from the dealer in the presence of a friend of yours. We'd think it was crazy for words. In construction, however, we find it almost normal. It is logical that a series of Cabinets have tried to ensure better quality in construction and to regulate legal frameworks for this. This minister's coming up with a bill. Partly on behalf of his predecessor, by the way, let that be said. Is that a good bill? After many years of discussion, have the right choices actually been made? There is still a great deal of doubt in my group about this in crucial areas. And is the bill balanced in itself, even after the changes made by the House of Representatives per amendment? We are also concerned about this. The diversity of responses from the sector indicates that there are still many concerns there. The basis of our concern lies in the tension between the role of the market and the public task. That is where this contribution focuses, which does not mean that there are not many questions to ask on many other fronts. In general, the reactions of market players to this bill are, not entirely surprisingly, more positive than those of the public, such as the VNG, the G-4 and the former Chairman of the Security Research Council. It is the lure of fewer rules and lower fees versus the care for public safety, inspired by neoliberal wish thinking. Where we see an ever stronger appreciation of the public task in the social debate, this law still breathes very strongly the spirit of the market as a solution to all social problems. My group feels rather uncomfortable about this. We would much rather look at the checks-and-balances, from the point of view that great public interests such as safe cars, safe food, safe schools and crèches and safe buildings, place a responsibility on the producer, the trainer, the child carer and the builder, but also that the government keeps the task of checking and checking. That we can test whether a new car type can come on the market and that old cars get a bitch. That we have a Food and Waring Authority that does not take over the responsibility of food producers but controls food safety against the demands we make. That we have an education inspection that examines the quality of education and a GGD that can assess whether or not child care complies with legal requirements. And that we have a local government, call it for my part construction and housing control that can check that there is safe, solid and sustainable construction. Does that role remain in the bill? As far as I am concerned, that is an important question, because it seems that the expertise of the local authorities will be lost, also in view of the Minister's little-to-the-point response to our written questions on this matter. Existing supervision in construction is outdated. We agree with the Minister. It has become a paper tiger, which in practice hardly follows what is happening on the construction site. But in the new procedures prescribed by this bill, that is no different. The legislator has apparently accepted that the government cannot fully fulfil its public role. Supervision will continue to be paper-based supervision. Also in the new law, the construction inspector is no longer on the construction site. How wise is that? A number of striking building calamities in our country over the past few years have shown that it can go badly wrong during construction. The falling crane in Alphen aan den Rijn, the weakened monumental corner building in Den Bosch and the recently collapsed parking garage in Eindhoven are illustrative examples. The Minister wants to place quality assurance on the market. In my group's view, this can only be done if the supervision of the guarantee is properly and unequivocally regulated, and that seems to be far from the case. The bill introduces concepts such as "authorised instruments," "instrument providers," "quality depositors" and "delivery files." These are all things that are used by and for the market. In conjunction with this, they should ensure that they are built according to the plans and requirements. An admission organisation will assess whether the instruments provide sufficient guarantees on the basis of legal criteria. In the legislative proposal, the substantive review by the public regulator is no longer necessary in advance and during the construction process. The market regulates it itself and must ensure "justified trust," according to the explanatory memorandum, which also refers to a "consumption of proof." Those are terms that don't make us very warm. Honestly, it all sounds pretty conceptual, not to say vague. Let me say first of all that my group thinks it is positive that contractors are more stimulated to take responsibility and deliver quality. It's kind of bizarre that a law is needed for this. Nevertheless, the use of quality assurance systems in construction and the increase of the obligation to provide information towards the client or the client. the consumer are good steps. This bill lays down legal provisions on a number of aspects, which, fortunately, we also see in practice: builders who do take responsibility and compete on quality. However, the concept of "building quality to be delivered and tested" is too broad. Let's take an example. The consumer or the small client in particular in sub-class 1 will generally be able to assess whether the builder meets the pre-defined consumer requirements: do the walls have the correct finish, is the hanging and closing work correct, does the plumbing hang and is the layout of the rooms as it was on the drawing? As far as my group is concerned, such agreements can very well be concluded and tested between the contractor and the contractor. Much more complicated are the requirements concerning the robustness of the construction, the requirements in terms of durability, insulation and ventilation and questions of fire safety. Which non-specialist client can assess whether the façade cover is fireproof, to mention a current example? Such issues already apply to homes and small buildings, but they will come up with an additional picture if this new law also applies to the implementation of subsequent classes 2 and 3. In fact, we are talking about the parking garage in Eindhoven which collapsed a week before the start of operation and about the Arke Stadium in Enschede, where a dead man fell to regret in the construction of a gallery. My group believes that, in particular, the test on essential issues of safety and sustainability during and after construction in the public interest remains an important task for the government. In this bill, public enforcement shifts to ex post in specific situations in the construction process. There is no prior municipal risk assessment, not even on the crucial aspects of building safety and sustainability. The holder of the authorisation shall be responsible. He must make it plausible that the building regulations will be complied with, and for this he will use the independent but commercial quality assurance. As an independent auditor reviews the annual accounts, the quality assurance officer tests the construction plan submitted by the contractor and possibly architect. Our key question to the Minister is: how do we ensure the public interest of building safety and sustainability in this system? How do we ensure that the commercial quality assurance agency can actually do its job objectively and not give in to the temptations of, for example, accountancy, which we have to acknowledge time and time again that the quality is not satisfactory? What is the admission organisation going to do and what are the possibilities for intervention given to this organisation and to the quality assurance body? What interventions can the contractor's contracted quality assurance officer make during construction? On what criteria, for example, can he stop construction? In the new system, the municipality does not come into view until a ready notification has been made. Then the municipality will assess on the basis of, among other things, the building file whether a building can be put into service. We think that is far too late. Why was it not chosen, for example, to allow the municipality to carry out quality checks on a sample basis on essential safety issues? Is the Minister prepared to make more room for that in the AMvBs? My group is not concerned, like the Minister, about whether the municipality and later the quality assurance agency are doing double work or interfering with each other, but whether the reduction in public oversight does not increase the risks in key safety areas. The collapse of monumental buildings, collapsing cranes and collapsing parking garages are not a matter of bad luck during construction, but crucial events in public space, where a public preventive role fits in. I have a few specific points to make very briefly. The consumer file has been created per amendment and detailed rules have been laid down for notification to the competent authority. These rules should be further developed per AMvB. The G-4 has expressed his concerns about this. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to include the specific proposals put forward by the G-4 in the draft decisions for the AMVBs. If not, why not? For the municipalities, the introduction of the new system means adapting the ICT systems. In the reply, the Minister says that he will prepare an impact analysis in order to gain more insight into its implications. Why didn't we do that until now? Why hasn't that impact analysis been done much earlier? We are now being asked to adopt a law which, according to the Minister himself, is likely to have serious consequences. That's what worries us. ICT adjustments are anything but a piece of cake for the government. Soon there will be the coincidence with the Environment Act. Is the Minister aware of this coincidence and how will he involve it in the impact analysis? Finally, very briefly: I did not specifically want to name the fire in London in this contribution. Some things are too big. But my group, like probably the Minister, has been asked from several quarters whether the study should not be taken into account. Is the Minister going to follow that investigation and will we get his conclusions from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u4	Madam President. The proposal we are discussing has been welcomed by the VVD Group, but at the same time with the necessary doubts. During the written preparation we asked some questions and we thank the Minister for his reply. However, a number of questions remain. I'd like to come back to that later. But first the question: is there a problem and does this bill offer a solution? In construction there are several problems. The cost of failure is high. Construction's complicated. The responsibilities are unclear. Everyone points to everyone. The building quality can be better; of course, the good ones not too spoken up. Municipal building and housing control is increasingly limited. There is a preventive review of the construction plan in advance, but more supervision would be desirable during construction. More than there is now. The civil servants of construction and housing control are not blamed. They do what they can and even more than that, but the deficit remains. In two ways, the legislative proposal aims to address these problems. Firstly, by increasing the contractor's civil liability. Even after delivery, he remains responsible and liable. This strengthens the position of the construction consumer. As a result, the contractor will perform better and the quality will go up. Secondly, quality is now monitored by a 'quality assurance'. He's a private expert and he supervises the construction. He will ensure that the building regulations are complied with. He reports to the client, to the municipality and to the contractor. He is independent, and ultimately he is the one who has to declare compliance. So no one can get around him. Will these two ways, the quality assurance agencies and the contractor's liability, lead to a solution? The Minister has done a lot to remove this uncertainty: consultation, years, with all parties, research, pilots, monitoring, evaluation, phase in three subsequent classes. The VVD Group greatly appreciates all these efforts. The result is this bill. It is a careful knitting in which all interests are addressed. Meeting one goes at the expense of the other. But doing nothing doesn't solve anything. However, there are a few points where we would like to get a little more grounded. That is why we want to look at three points: the costs, the quality promotion and the position of the municipality. First of all, the costs and benefits. These are fees, quality assurance costs, less failure costs and efficiency gains. The fee could be reduced by an amount of EUR 156 to 191 million, according to a Cedeon study. The minister's gonna see to it. He will try to conclude a governance agreement with the VNG. He will act as Minister of Housing and as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. My group is counting on the Minister to do so. The cost of failure is 10% of the turnover. These could be down pretty good. In the reply it says: "The construction practice has several examples, with the additional efforts in the field of quality control being largely recouped through a significant reduction in the cost of failure." Will the Minister mention some of these examples? The cost of the quality assurance officer is not yet known, but the expectation is that it will work more efficiently than the municipality. What is this expectation based on? And finally, efficiency gains are 100 million a year according to a study by the Economic Institute for Construction. These four components, fees, failure costs, quality assurance and efficiency, should actually be merged into one balance: positive or negative. Then we know whether this system change is a sound financial measure. Will the Minister inform us about this? Then the contractor's liability. Will it lead to more quality and confidence in construction? It could go either way. It's possible the contractor's gonna cover his ass. Then we have liability assurance instead of quality assurance. At the client's expense, of course. My group regards this as less likely, because the contractor would soon be able to get out of the market. It could also be that the contractor is trying to achieve a higher building quality, with fewer complaints and more satisfied clients. My group expects most contractors to choose this path of greater quality and less litigation. Every producer or supplier has a duty to deliver a good product. That's what the client pays for. He can count on that. The same applies to construction and to the individual contractor. In this direction also the reactions of the Contractors Federation Netherlands and Building Netherlands point in this direction. The VVD Group sees this as a good omen. Then there's another legal point. In the Magazine for Bouwrecht, Professor Chao criticised the Minister. In connection with Book 7, Article 758 (4) of the WFD, the Minister had used the word "reasonably" as a general principle. Wrongly, because the subjective word "reasonably" needs to be eliminated. A contractor who has warned a client in vain still assumes liability. That's what the minister called unreasonable. Wrongly, because contrary to established case law. It's a matter between two professors. That requires me to be modest. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he wishes to clarify the matter in the interests of legal history. My next point is the position of the municipality. It retains its normal function as provider of the environmental authorisation and the use authorisation. In doing so, the municipality receives several files that provide the necessary information. But the municipality is not allowed to do the quality assurance work again. The municipality also retains its role as competent authority. Rightly, because in the event of danger or disasters, everyone looks at the municipality. Therefore, the municipality should continue to have powers and information so that it can fulfil its responsibility for security and enforce it. Fire and safety region remain in the same position. Firefighters will have their say in the supervision by ZBO and in the quality assurance tools. The meeting between the city and the fire department remains as it is. And here too, the information should not be used to duplicate the work of quality assurance agencies. Information shall be used to monitor and enforce security. Finally, the proposed changes to the WFD and to the system raise questions but also have positive aspects. It means accepting the situation in which municipal building and housing control is located: too little supervision during construction. We are not blaming anyone for that, but it is necessary to fill this gap. That is what this bill provides for. By quality assurance plus supervision by ZBO and instrument providers. That is not what my group wants to call privatisation or market forces. It's a mixed system. It is: provided a gap that has gradually grown. The choice is not: supervision by building and housing supervision or supervision by the quality assurance officer. Because construction and housing supervision during construction is not there. So the choice is: no supervision or supervision by the quality assurance officer. My group prefers the latter. Madam President, my group is looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today, the Chamber is discussing a bill that has been preceded by the necessary legislation. Several colleagues have already indicated this. At first instance, we are thinking of calamities and incidents which have led to victims in recent years, and even in recent weeks, and which have pointed the finger at fire safety and control of building regulations. The fact that this is possible in a society which has achieved a high degree of technological and economic development continues to amaze the average citizen, and rightly so. Citizens should be able to rely on a basic guarantee of fire and constructive safety in their homes and working environment. Transparency of the construction process and a clear liability are therefore necessary conditions for the duty of care which the public authorities must exercise in this respect. Following the well-known "balcony" incidents in the past, a process of research and analysis has been launched over the last ten years with a multitude of parties involved in the construction industry who have produced proposals that are now the ultimate codification. In recent years, a number of pilot municipalities have experimented with the new way of working. Experiences have been taken into account in the legislative proposal, but have also led to some tightening up by amending the House of Representatives. I refer in particular to the amendments tabled by Mr de Vries on tightening up the obligation to warn contractors. The purpose of this amendment is to limit the scope for discussion on liability in the event of defects. I would also like to draw your attention to the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). 16 on a mandatory risk assessment for building works brought under the quality assurance system and which does not allow an application for authorisation to be dealt with if the risk assessment is missing. Finally, I would like to mention the amendment to item No. 17 on the introduction of a consumer file and the establishment of rules on the preparation of notifications to the competent authority. We have a slightly different appreciation of these amendments from the CDA Group's contribution. We note that at present, if the contractor presents a previously hidden defect after delivery, it is only required to recover it if the contractor can prove that that defect is caused by a deficiency which can be attributed to the contractor. Otherwise, the right to liability shall lapse. The burden of proof, therefore, lies entirely with the consumer in the current system rather than with the contractor. This leads to a lot of trickery before it is recognized that a mistake has been made and then trickery about who is responsible: the contractor, the subcontractors, the architect, the client himself, or the inspector of construction and housing control, the supplier of construction products or who else you can think of who is involved in the process. Restoration is usually arranged in the end, but often with a lot of hassle and not always free of charge. In the new system, contractors are actually liable for what they have achieved and what they have agreed on in relation to the quality of housing and other buildings. See the redrafting of Articles 750 and 757: the contractor shall, upon notification that the building is ready to be delivered, submit to the contraaing authority a transfer file showing how the work has been carried out and in which the contraaor declares and supports that all agreed performances, which are not less than the minimum requirements laid down by law, are fulfilled. Who could be against that? And Article 757 (2): The contractor shall inform the client in good time of the possible consequences for the proper performance of the contract. This paragraph may not be waived to the detriment of the contraaing authority. We consider this to be a logical and good development. Moreover, contractors and clients can still choose to make different agreements with regard to the liability of the parties outside this improved general regulation. We believe that the present proposal provides an important basis for a different approach to the quality promotion of the construction process. Insurers will play an important role in maintaining quality. This can reduce the cost of quality control. Can the Minister confirm this? And does he see opportunities to strengthen the influence of insurers? It provides a change and strengthening of the consumer's position in the private-law relationship with the contractor/contractor. A shift which the PvdA Group wholeheartedly supports. My group has concerns about the proposed transition period to the new system. On the one hand, we note that municipalities have already come to a phase-out stage, and on the other hand, great care is needed in the construction of the new system. Not only in terms of the human resources needed, but also in our view, the supporting ICT system must have been sufficiently tested to enable the law to enter into force. Municipalities remain, also in the quality assurance system, the competent authority to maintain or comply with public law rules relating to environmental policy, safety, well-being and monuments. They remain responsible under the law of the state. With regard to fire safety for buildings, the Building Decision lays down various fire safety requirements to be met by existing buildings. The control of these rules lies with the municipal building and housing supervision. The Quality Assurance for Building Act (Wkb) does not in itself relate to this. Also, the Wkb does not change anything in the current fire safety regulations. The competent authority may, for example, take enforcement action on the basis of information from the quality assurance authority or complaints from third parties or may prohibit the entry into service of the building. The safety of third parties and surrounding buildings is and remains the responsibility of the competent authority. Finally, compliance monitoring by the competent authority remains in place and the proposal and draft decision provide for quality assurance for building a strengthening of the competent authority's information position. The municipalities rightly point out that in order to carry out these tasks, they need to know which risky components are in a construction plan before the start of the construction. Can the Minister confirm that in the draft building decision the municipalities will be given the tools to make requirements in the permit conditions and specific accountability on this point? We should like to receive a clear answer to this, given the pending procedure that has arisen in this Chamber. We would like to agree with the Minister that this suspension procedure should be extended so that the First Chamber can continue to examine the transposition of the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled to it. Despite the administrative investigation into the role of municipalities, some questions remain regarding the correct definitions, such as whether a quality assurance body has legal personality. Is that clearly defined in the underlying bill? The justifications for legal action in assessment and enforcement also call for attention, for example with regard to the process of delivery in which the building is already involved by users/owners to prevent vandalism and theft, while the final delivery still has to take place. Can the Minister provide this case with a legal assessment? What does that mean for any disputes about liability and assessment for municipalities? Can municipalities base their enforcement intervention sufficiently on the information provided? And to what extent can proportionality be clearly determined? I'd like an answer from the Minister. For some years now, there have been signs that the available capacity for monitoring and enforcement over the full breadth of the municipal tasks is inadequate. See the report Monitoring and enforcement by municipalities published on 18 May, commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations: "Sustainability in recent years has also taken a toll on many municipalities in terms of supervision and enforcement. In a significant part of the municipalities a lack of capacity is experienced, partly as a result, which left work to be done." The question therefore arises whether sufficient capacity is available for the municipal supervisory practice. In the debate we had with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment on 30 May last on the AMvB's Environment Act, this was also requested and we understand that an evaluation of the functioning of environmental services will be carried out this summer. Is it not obvious for this minister to consider this result and to consult the municipalities on whether the necessary safeguards of supervision and enforcement will be in order upon entry into force of this law? As a result of this study, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already stated that he will return to the results and recommendations in the autumn following consultations with VNG and IPO. To what extent does the government intend to impose minimum requirements on the necessary scope of the supervisory function, specifically with regard to fire safety, on behalf of the competent authority, by way of instruction or otherwise? Although it is stated by the government that the entry into force of the Environmental Law and underlying AMvBs has only marginal significance, this is perceived differently by users and local authorities. It would, on the basis of the strong thought of A government promoted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, be right to seek the synergy of implementation and information here. The regulation of safety risks is on the eve of a number of major changes. As a result of the Environmental Act, the role of the government and companies changes. The aim of the Environmental Law is to simplify environmental law. There will be fewer permits and companies will be given greater responsibility in identifying and managing risks. This means that the role of the government changes. The government is given the role of director, in which various instruments can be used to create, among other things, a safe physical environment. In doing so, the supervision is reversed from rule to risk-oriented. This requires other competences and more knowledge of safety risks. The management of safety risks, the required knowledge and competences and the explicit weighing of the various instruments in risk-relevant companies become important issues in the preparation for the implementation of the Environmental Act. Specific areas of attention call for specific knowledge. This also applies to the monitoring of compliance with fire safety and environmental aspects. However, cooperation between environmental services and the security regions is not always self-evident. Although there is overlap between the different areas of work, integrated inspections have not been secured. However, good coordination is essential especially for the overlap of both fields of work and from the point of view of a reliable government. Does the Minister recognise this picture and share the concerns of the PvdA Group on this point? I'm rounding up. We note that entry into force on 1 January 2018 is almost impossible, heard the sounds from the field. What prevents the government from taking sufficient time to bring the system into force only in the second half of 2018 or from 1 January 2019? Has the Minister provided for a "go/no go" decision in consultation with the Parliament on the basis of an assessment with the cooperating partners, in particular with regard to ICT facilities and enforcement capacities? To what extent can the Minister respond to our group? I'd like to hear a response to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. The current public building monitoring system is not functioning optimally. The PVV Group agrees with that analysis. However, the Minister chooses to establish a whole new private system instead of improving the current system. This is a new system which is doubtful whether it will be an improvement. Pilot projects with independent construction supervision, such as in the City of The Hague, have not yet provided convincing evidence for this. It is therefore remarkable that the Minister states in the reply of 16 May that he intends to further increase the number of pilot projects. Does it not make much more sense to wait for the results of these pilot projects before such a radical change is introduced? The Minister also states in the reply that the responsibility and accountability of the competent authority continues to be ensured that construction is carried out in accordance with construction regulations and the environmental permit. At the same time, the Minister states that in the new system, the competent authority may rely on building in accordance with the construction regulations if the authorised quality assurance instrument is applied by a quality assurance authority, but that the competent authority may still exercise its enforcement powers if necessary. In this way, the new system puts the responsibility for the competent authority very ad hoc. How can enforcement powers be effectively exercised without adequate substantive assessment? In their letter to the First Chamber, the G-4 municipalities also point to this ambiguity. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. In addition, the draft decision states that the quality assurance authority does not have to check all quality aspects on the site itself. He may "take into account in the intensity of his checks the fact that, according to his own quality checks, a contractor can prove to be building in accordance with requirements and agreed agreements'. The quality assurance authority may also "use a contractor's past performance." Here, it is important to prevent a butcher from over-approval of his own meat. For example, the critical elements that will be included in the ministerial regulation include foundations, structures, air density, ventilation and energy efficiency, but there may be many more factors that can directly or indirectly affect the quality and safety of a building. The use of combustible materials in London's flats is an example of this which should also be taken into account in the Netherlands. For example, firefighter Fred Vos stated in the Algemeen Dagblad of 14 June that such constructions are often made in the Netherlands out of ignorance because they are lighter and cheaper, while not taking sufficient account of fire prevention. For example, in a Nijmegen seniors' flat, four residents died in a fire in 2015 after the fire could spread through combustible plating. Trust is good, but control is better. This should improve the current system. This question also arises when the newly built car park at Eindhoven Airport collapsed. As a result, Mrs Monika Chao of the Institute for Construction Law in the Eindhoven Dagblad of 30 May last stated that the new system in which the industry controls itself knows pitfalls, particularly in the clash of interests. She says: "If an engineering firm rejects a contractor's project several times, it can also cost the agency contracts. There are therefore always interests that may be relevant to the checks." I would like to hear a response from the Minister to these risks. The proposed quality assurance system aims to introduce the Minister in stages, starting with the simple category of buildings as residential homes. The more complex categories, such as apartment buildings, should be included in this system over time, depending on the initial experience. In view of the feasibility of the legislative proposal, it is therefore still unclear whether and when the higher secondary classes will be covered by this system. In the meantime, improvements in quality assurance for these higher secondary classes should not be allowed to stand still. What will be the commitment to improve the provisionally continued part of the current system? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to ask the following question. The PVV has previously asked whether, if the system is introduced, the fee can finally be reduced. Can the Minister clarify this in greater detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Improving the quality of construction is the main objective of the legislative proposal we are discussing today. Of course, there's no one to object to that. Is there now a problem with this quality of construction or a pressing reason to be dissatisfied with the current results? The Minister argues that society and the construction consumer impose more demands on the quality of the building, that construction projects have become more complex, that fragmentation of construction projects more often leads to uncertainty as to who is responsible for the integral construction quality of the entire building and, finally, but certainly not least, that municipal supervision is mainly carried out in advance and on paper. Indeed, the Christian Union Group considers the elements mentioned by the Minister to be grounds for considering whether the current quality assurance of construction can be better designed. But whether the chosen solution, shifting the supervisory responsibility of the municipality to private parties in the planning and construction phase, puts an end to the problems, my group doubts. That is why I have a number of questions and comments for the Minister. First of all, I have a point of principle. Ensuring the quality and, above all, the safety of buildings is a public interest. That's a government responsibility. The Minister states that the other way of setting up this system is without prejudice to that. After all, if the assessment by the private quality guaranteeer reveals defects, the competent authority will be able to intervene. It is a question of public confidence in these institutions. The pilot in The Hague led the municipality to conclude that the statements issued by the guarantee body regarding compliance with the Building Decree by the municipality could not be verified on the basis of the delivery files. This bill rightly upholds the final responsibility of the competent authority it has in the light of Article 1b of the Housing Act, which is of public interest. But how can a community fill that out? What possibilities does the guarantor itself have to correct a builder? Is that just remembering an approval declaration on delivery? Does he only have a sword of Damocles to point at? Is that a sanction that works? The shift to private quality assurance will also have an impact on the knowledge available to municipalities to assess whether enforcement should be considered. From The Hague the picture emerged that the proposed law puts the municipality in the position of a blindfolded supervisor. The remaining enforcement powers can't undo all the wrongs afterwards. It is the inhabitants concerned who are affected because the building cannot be put into service. Now, with the amendments of Albert de Vries, the House of Representatives has tried to remove the municipal blindfold. The municipality receives an information file on delivery and already carries out a risk assessment at the time of the permit application. In the meantime, the Minister will also be aware of the strong language expressed by the G-4 on the translation of these amendments on the news sites. The amendments would not find sufficient translation into the draft decision. On the contrary, the delivery file must give the municipalities the confidence that they can knowingly determine that the law and performance requirements are met. What is the Minister's reaction to the sharp comments of these municipalities? I would like to hear that here, because the NOS site is a rather limited source, I would say. Especially in the Acts, we do not see anything of that. As has already been said, the Minister wants to address a number of problems with this bill. First of all, he points out that society and the construction consumer make more demands on the quality of the building. What makes these requirements in the new system faster to find a translation into the quality assurance instrument? Are the rules to which a guarantee body is subject not still laid down by the government? Can the Minister also give examples of the new requirements that are not currently involved in public building supervision? How big is this problem? Another element he mentions is that construction projects have become more complex. Due to the phased entry into force of this legislative proposal, construction projects in categories II and III are the categories where the most social impact in the event of abuses is still under municipal supervision. Will complex construction projects not continue to be subject to public supervision in the coming years? Should measures be taken to strengthen public oversight? There was already a shortage of well-qualified public authorities in the construction industry. Won't that just increase? Municipal building inspectors already see the mood with this law. How can the municipalities fulfil their tasks in the coming years? Doesn't this bill give an extra push towards hiring private expertise? What contribution does the Minister make in this respect? Did he calculate the cost of this? This bill should lead to a reduction in the construction fee, but is it still the case with the current adjustments? In any case, it remains doubtful to my group whether the system as a whole, or whether this change, will lead to an increase in the burden. I would like to hear the Minister on this point. The third problem is the fragmentation of construction projects and the lack of clarity as to who is responsible for the integral construction quality. Is that clear in the future? Isn't that gonna be the contractor or the ancillary contractor? The previous speakers, I am thinking in particular of the CDA spokesman, rightly raised critical questions about liability. The Christian Union Group has these questions too. That needs to be clarified. Why does the Minister consider this bill to be an improvement on the current situation? Finally, the Minister states that the municipality is now mainly in charge of prior supervision and on paper. That will change, as the Minister outlines in the documents. The picture of inspectors at the construction site is sketched here and there, and that speaks of course. At the same time, I read that contractors who have a good quality control system will most likely be tested marginally. Are the market philosophy and the desire to work cost-effective not equally encouraging to supervise as soon as it can on paper? How is supervision to be prevented from being repeated on paper? How does the Minister see that? How does he evaluate that? For the time being, the Christian Union Group is not convinced that the problems listed by the Minister find an adequate solution in this bill. Nor is the group convinced that the chosen combination of private and public supervision will strengthen the quality of construction. There are, by the way, doubts on various sides. There are experts who see this supervision as part of the core tasks of the government and therefore cannot, in principle, participate in privatisation. I also read comments from an expert that market incentives only really do their job if further privatisation takes place. He mentioned France as an example. Is this proposal not really meat or fish? Why not opt for optimising the current public system instead of partly shifting these supervisory responsibilities to a hybrid configuration? For the group of the Christian Union, the first and most fundamental point weighs heavily. The government has a responsibility to ensure safety. The Minister argues that this can also be done with a mix of public and private supervision and public enforcement, but he does not convince us of this with this proposal. Moreover, the public's perception of this is complex. Suppose a citizen sees a course of action on the construction site that is out of control. In the new system, he must report this to the marketing authorisation holder or the quality assurance officer. Those are the parties that are talking about it. However, reports will also continue to come to the municipalities. Citizens also rightly hold the competent authority responsible for enforcement. From the point of view of political responsibility for enforcement, it can therefore be expected that the competent authority will be inclined to actively follow up notifications. The report commissioned by the Minister on the role of the municipality in private quality assurance gives an example of the situation that the municipality refers such a detector to the quality assurance authority. It may then ask the municipality to exercise its enforcement powers on the basis of this notification. The question is whether municipalities will give themselves the peace to go through this route according to the bill. Does political responsibility not call for closer involvement and is it possible to stay away from substantive monitoring? Mr President, you will notice that my group still has a lot of questions, but that is precisely why it is looking forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing regulates the introduction of a new system to ensure the quality of construction and aims to strengthen the position of the so-called building consumer. The new system would benefit both construction quality and cost savings. In the new system, the preventive test of the competent authority shall, as a general rule, cease to be the municipal authority in accordance with the rules laid down in the Building Decision. The supervision of the construction site also lapses by or on behalf of the municipality. To this end, a system of supervision to be hired by the builder with tools of quality assurance and private quality assurance developed by private parties will replace it. Mr President, forgive me the jargon, I am merely quoting the explanation of the law. This system may be under the control of a public admission committee, but it nevertheless shifts important supervisory tasks from government to private parties. These are tasks related to the monitoring of regulations aimed at promoting safety, health and fire safety. The SP Group is not in principle in favour of privatising this type of task. It is not implausible that the builders will try to hire as cheap a quality assurance provider as possible that does little on-the-spot monitoring. This is not a good alternative to the government's already inadequate supervision by the municipalities. The government states that the contractors themselves will strive for the best possible construction quality, because they will be liable for all construction errors in the new law. The construction consumer I say again: I apologize for the use of the word "the person who buys the building from the builder" will no longer be sent from the cabinet to the wall, from the contractor to the contractor or the designer. This seems to be a nice solution, if it is not true that in the case of contracts by professional clients, the faults in the design are almost as often the result of faults in the contractor's design. Can the Minister explain why it is justified that liability lies primarily with the contractor and thus also the burden of proof on the contrary? Other speakers have already pointed out that the House of Representatives has adopted some of Mr De Vries' amendments aimed at improving the performance of municipalities' continuing legal task of enforcing the rules of the Building Decision. One of the amendments provides for a risk assessment to be included in the application for authorisation for building under the quality assurance system. This assessment gives municipalities the opportunity to give their enforcement task prior direction and content by providing authorisation holders with detailed rules on how to deal with those risks, according to the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. Another amendment concerns, among other things, the setting of rules for the preparation of a building to be notified to the competent authority. In a letter dated 28 June last, the four largest municipalities informed us that other spokesmen had already spoken about the fact that they felt that both amendments were so limited in the draft decision on quality assurance for building that they could not fulfil their responsibilities. They propose a considerably wider incorporation of the amendments in the draft decision and advise us not to accept the legislative proposal in the absence of this. My group therefore calls on the Minister to respond in detail to this letter from the G-4. We would like to hear whether he is prepared to accept all the additions proposed by the G-4 to the text of the draft decision. Overall, the new system of quality assurance for construction has become a complex system, with many parties monitoring each other and many files that parties have to submit to each other. It is to be feared that the cost of this will offset the expected savings on the construction fee, which are expected as a result of the more limited task of the municipalities. It is also to be feared that the monitoring of construction, in particular on the construction site, will not improve. All in all, my group is by no means convinced that the present legislative proposal should become law. But I do not want to exclude that the Minister's answer to the many questions raised in this Chamber can change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Köhler. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. again. The committee meetings that are currently taking place are the reason for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u10	I call the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u11	Madam President. Fortunately, the economy of the Netherlands is going well again, with the result that there is a construction spurt coming. It is therefore very important that, when building more and faster, the quality of the construction is secured. I saw some pictures of a collapsed parking garage and other buildings in the news today. They all collapsed under the current system. What we would like is to avoid these situations as much as possible in the future. To this end, a package of proposals has been put together which should also be seen in conjunction and in balance. On the one hand, the position of the customer of the product is improved by his homeowners, tenants and housing corporations and, on the other hand, it is ensured that no unnecessary costs are incurred and no duplication of work is done on the side of the construction process. Many of the merits for the ingenious craftsmanship and the coherence of this complete package lie with my highly valued predecessor Blok. In the meantime, I have been able to bring this package to this end with great respect. I must say that I have not experienced a field in which the lobby was active as acute, violent, permanent and up to the last breath as in this area. I understood from the first-term input of some spokesmen that this also applies in the Upper Chamber. This morning, when I opened the morning paper, I informed the Association of Dutch Municipalities whether I did not understand anything, as we have all agreed on this. I suddenly read that a few aldermen, among others from Utrecht and Amsterdam, have now apparently developed a different vision. I shall come back to that in a moment. It shows how active the involvement of the various social partners is. As a preliminary remark, I would like to say that it has become a coherent package in which it is for one person to give something here and for the other one to give something there. Ultimately, there is a net advantage for the country as a whole. I'll defend the package in no time. There is a constant decline in negotiations between various social partners who say: if this is the case, then we do not agree. If everyone keeps saying that, the party's off anyway. I am defending the package as dealt with by the House of Representatives, where in my view it has been amended in such a way that the House of Representatives also said it would find a coherent and balanced whole. I will explain and defend this in detail later. I hope to convince the First Chamber of that, of course. I note this because a lot has been said about amendments, such as those on item Nos. 14 and 15. However, there is of course not an amendment to this, but a legislative proposal. We're gonna have to talk about that. Let me say first of all that doing nothing would be very bad, both in terms of liability and in terms of supervision. As I say with Mr Schouwenaar, supervision is, to a large extent, paper supervision. There may be large municipalities in which it all still works in practice, but there are also municipalities, often smaller ones, where there is insufficient supervision. That is why this task is not so much being privatised in the area of supervision itself as it is being placed under the supervision of a public health authority, i.e. a state-of-the-art supervisory authority. At the same time, the position of the customer of construction works improves considerably, particularly as regards liability and file formation. Let me explain these two, because, frankly, I had not realized that it was different. What is going on here, I think, quite frankly, is perfectly logical. What if you buy a car in the summer? You're gonna drive in the winter, and then the heat doesn't work. You'll go back to the dealer. He's gonna say, "Sorry, we're gonna fix that." He doesn't say: that thing was delivered and you didn't say anything at the delivery. But if you buy a house in the summer and in the winter, the heating doesn't work, and then you go to the contractor, he says: sorry, but it's finished now. Of course, that's not reasonable. The bill therefore provides that the contractor is simply liable for what he has made, as is the case in any other sector of society. Only if he has warned us, but that must have been done explicitly, in writing and demonstrable, in the sense of: you should not do so. Of course, there will be a moment when that is no longer reasonable. If the contractor says that a particular paint should be used because otherwise the moisture will pass through, if the buyer says that a cheap paint should be used, if the contractor then asks to initial that he has warned that the moisture will then pass through, if the customer initials that and if the moisture then passes through, then it is logical that the judge will say that explicitly and in writing has been warned about it. Otherwise, it is the professional's responsibility to ensure that decent work is delivered. That goes as well for a garage owner as for a contractor. It's gonna be taken care of here. It also regulates the formation of files. I didn't realize it was true at all, but every product you buy, for example a hair dryer, has a package leaflet with a manual. It says by button exactly what that button does, but if you have the sewer in your kitchen, if the tiles are put back, if something turns out to be wrong afterwards and if you want to bring in another contractor, you don't know where the sewer is. After all, you don't have a file. Now the law stipulates that as a customer of a product you are entitled to have a file with you, so that you do not necessarily have to go back to the same contractor but can also tell another contractor which tiles have to come out because that pipe is underneath. That is actually quite fundamental, but that is not regulated at the moment. It'll be taken care of now. I think that these are important aspects that improve the position of the citizen and the customer that can, of course, also be a large business customer on that point. At the same time, supervision is changing. I shall look into this later, also in the light of the questions that have been put. Before I do that, I want to throw in the towel at one point and make a commitment here that I have not made so far. In the House of Representatives, I maintained that I consider this law to be so urgent that if it is adopted, I would like to introduce it by January of the coming year, January 2018. I have heard the contributions of various spokesmen here. My conclusion is that the VNG also asked there in a recent letter that we should not do so. If the First Chamber adopts the law, I will therefore admit that we will set the date of introduction on 1 January 2019. That gives us time for those AMvBs. Then we can process the input of the Chambers and then this Chamber can still debate it with the Cabinet if it feels that it has not done so properly. This will require the adoption of the law, otherwise the lobbying will continue. Of course, we need to know whether this coherent package, which improves consumer rights on the one hand and reorganises supervision on the other, can count on support in the Chamber. Once again, if so, I will ensure that we create a time window, so that we can also discuss the AMvBs with the Chamber. Mr Pijlman therefore asked, like Mr Verheijen and a number of other speakers, but also in the recent letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities was asked. Let me finish with this subject, the introduction, if it is all right with you. This is therefore a commitment and a change in relation to what has happened before. This has a number of advantages: we can discuss the AMvB's here, we can inform the consumers there early Mr.Pijlman asked for a permit and at the request of the Association of Dutch Municipalities we can discuss further with the G32, with building and housing supervision and also with the security regions. Mr Pijlman asked if we could also monitor the intermediate steps. For that too there is more space in time. That is also my response to the letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which I keep as a point of contact for the view of the 388 municipalities in the Netherlands. The VNG sent me a letter on 26 June, so last week. I welcome the tone of that. I think we can find each other. The letter lists a number of points of interest. I'm gonna walk by it for a little while. With regard to the scope for balancing enforcement requests, the first scenario in the letter, whereby the municipalities weigh up substantive information for enforcement requests, is in line with my view. The VNG itself states that this can be done without redeploying the work of the quality assurance officer. That's exactly what I'm trying to do. This also applies to monitoring the costs of the system and its affordability. The letter is therefore a good basis for the consultation I will have with the municipalities. Further arrangements can also be made on implementation. I would like to add that the emphasis on implementation should be on the parties. The government will take part when the parties meet thresholds, but this implementation can only be a success if the parties themselves put their own hands on it. I saw the criticism of the aldermen of the four major cities in the newspaper this morning, but we have time to go into the substance again, because that criticism was mainly expressed that they would ask the Chamber to reject the law if there was no opportunity to speak more about these AMvBs. I'll give you that opportunity now. We will therefore have to see whether this will lead to a review of the opinion of the aldermen concerned. It is, of course, also about the finesses of competence issues. After all, we do not want to do any duplication; everyone agrees on that. However, a number of municipalities say that they want to be able to give guidance to the quality assurance officer or that they have to work under their direction or command. That's not the point. We will therefore have to fine-tune and coordinate this in good consultation. Mr Pijlman asked about the question of implementation and the date of implementation. That's what I've been talking about. He also talked about information, and he asked me what I was trusting that the bill would be good in the end. I hope my introduction has shown that a little bit. First of all, I think that a number of improvements are being made on the consumer side, which I find strange that they were not long ago; I had never realised that. I also think that housing control is clearly not as effective as it should be on a number of points. Social cost-benefit analyses have also been carried out by the Economic Institute for Construction. They're positive. Mr Schouwenaar asked if I could add all the effects together. Of course you can always do that, but he himself indicated that they are of different nature. One effect is: less construction legs. Another effect is to reduce social costs. These effects naturally affect themselves at different times and in different ways, but all in all this seems to be a positive picture. We need to implement it carefully, monitor it and evaluate it. Mr Van Hattem asked whether it would be better to wait for the results of the pilot projects. The market players themselves have asked for the possibility of new pilot projects. I'd like to respond to that. I had an evaluation done at the end of last year. In addition, I have continued to monitor the ongoing pilot projects. In the design of new pilot projects, I will take into account the experience of the past and ongoing projects. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're going through with that. I take a breath after this first block, of which the crux is of course that I have promised that we will put the introduction date back for a year, so that we can talk about the AMvB's extensively. That brings me to the second issue, liability. I am so excited that I have already mentioned this in my first general introduction. This concerns both the liability itself and the consumer file, which is supplied. The legislative proposal corrects the difference between this sector and other sectors, with the moment of delivery not becoming an all-inclusive moment. The emphasis is on where it should lie, namely whether a defect can be attributed to the contractor. Of course, that's always a call. My predecessor has already made a number of comments. I would like to emphasise this once again. If there is a conflict, it will eventually have to be judged by the judge. Then, of course, the deadline between delivery and the moment when the lack of light comes to light is also included. If it's 20 years later, at some point it's not reasonable to get it back from the contractor. There must therefore be a form of proportionality in the time period. This also follows from the Civil Code and its obligation to complain. I've also spoken about warning. In that I distinguish two categories. If the contractor in the example I have just mentioned says that a particular paint is not good and should not be used because it is going to leaf or go crazy, if the customer still wants a cheap paint and if it is signed that it has been warned, then the liability of the contractor will of course stop at some point, except that if something dangerous is built, the professionalism of the contractor will of course continue to imply that he cannot say: yes, but I warned him that the balcony would fall off. So, of course, professionalism must always be the key to this, but that seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u12	I have noted that the Minister says: I am not responding to the amendments; I am talking about the law itself. Only now the Minister gives the translation of the contractor's liability, which he also gave in his written reply. It would be reasonable, even if something couldn't be attributed to him. However, I would like to come back to the purpose of the amendments and the explanatory statement which they contained. It is assumed that the contractor has to have a statement from the client I don't hold you liable if he doesn't want to be liable. If he doesn't get that statement, he's gonna have to put the job down. That is the only way in which, according to the explanatory statement to the amendment incorporated in the law, he can escape his liability. That is a different interpretation than the one the Minister is now interpreting. It conflicts in my opinion. If you have a law, it must be clear and prevent conflicts. In my view, this proposal creates conflicts because there are two diametrically opposed explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u13	I understand Mrs De Vries' question, but I am defending the legislative proposal as it has been amended and as I explained it in the House of Representatives. I'll explain it to you again. And that is where responsibility for the contractor is regulated, as I have just described. Let me repeat my words literally: the responsibility lies with the question of whether a lack of the contractor can be attributed. So, unlike the present practice, this does not mean that the contractor can say: yes, but you did not say anything about it at the time of delivery, so I am not going to go on about it anymore. It's not like that. He simply remains responsible for what he has achieved, unless he has explicitly and in writing warned in advance: you should not do this, because it is discolouring or it is not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u14	Now you have a building, which the contractor says: you shouldn't do that beam in that place, because then I don't know if I can guarantee the support structure anymore. We do not disagree about liability with private individuals; I say that directly here. They generally have no sense of building and the contractor is simply in the superior position in terms of knowledge. But let's say it's about a large, professional contractor who is being served by architects and advisors, who also influence the construction process during construction. If the contraaing authority insists that the contractor has to carry out something although the contractor says that he does not know if it is a sensible move, then the contraaor still has to lay down the work in the Second Chamber if he does not want to become liable. That's never gonna get the contractor under his responsibility, is it? For which client will now give a statement stating that the contractor is not liable, whereas the law already states that he is liable? That won't happen so soon. That's a paper reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u15	This is enlightening. That is why it is good that we are having this debate now. I think there are two issues here now. I was referring to one issue just now, with the wall that could collapse. Mrs De Vries referred to a beam which leads to a building becoming dangerous. Then it stops, of course. If a customer wants a contractor to use a thin sheet, the builder's professionalism must lead him to say: no, we're not going to do that. The same applies to a car dealer who delivers a car. When the customer says "do without brakes," he says: no, we can't; we're not going to do that. So that's obvious. Apart from that, however, Mrs De Vries' contribution shows that there is a second discussion. I do recognize them, because this point has indeed been discussed in the House of Representatives. Shouldn't the rule as I just described it and as it stands in the present law make a distinction between the small, private client and the large client? I do indeed remember that the CDA spokesperson argued at some point in that debate to do so. That was discussed extensively and then it was said: "But what is a small and what is a large client? Let's just keep it clear. A client is a client and a builder is a builder. We're not going to test the size." So Mrs De Vries' question may come from behind this discussion, but I cannot be helpful in this. The law that prevails applies to all principals. I also think that's wise, otherwise the end is completely lost. Because does a small client with three or four houses fall under another liability regime? So this is a choice that has been made. I have now discussed the issue of liability. I have also mentioned the exceptions arising from the Civil Code. Mrs Bikker asked whether I think the proposal is an improvement on the current situation. Yeah, I do. Unlike now, the assumption is that the contractor will remain liable after delivery for defects that were not detected at the time of delivery if they were attributable to him, just as is the case with the purchase of a car. I think it is a crooked situation that it is now different for those two different products. The contractor may then produce evidence that the lack is not attributable to him. That can be the case, of course, if people started crafting themselves afterwards or if a third person played a role in it. But that has to prove to be the case. That is what I have to say about liability. I think this is a valuable part of the package in the context of the balance sheet I have just mentioned, also in connection with the following section, namely the role of the municipality. That is the last subject I am discussing in a general sense. Then I will answer all the remaining questions in order of the speakers. I have already spoken in part about the role of the municipality. There must be a clear difference with the supervisor. His work should not be duplicated by the municipality, but the municipality must maintain and, of course, be able to use information from the supervisor. Enforcement is a matter for the competent authority. The municipality shall assess whether enforcement should be carried out following a request from the quality assurance officer. On the one hand, there is the question of whether construction is in conformity with the construction regulations. The legislative proposal assumes that municipalities rely on the substantive assessment of quality assurance. On the other hand, the question is whether and to what extent enforcement is proportionate. For this purpose, the municipality may request from the building party any information it needs in order to carry out its task. This is similar to municipal enforcement powers in permit-free construction or the supervision of existing construction. The bill and draft decision strengthen the information position of the municipality. The application for authorisation must be accompanied by a risk assessment, during the construction process the quality assurance officer informs the competent authority of the deviations he finds and after the construction process has been completed the municipality receives a dossier containing all relevant information on the completed building.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u16	If I understand correctly, under the current law, the municipality as a supervisor can decide at what time it intervenes, requests information and so on. In the new law, it is dependent on the information that the quality assurance provider is going to provide. What makes this form of privatisation improve the information position of the municipality? You could also say that if we were concerned about the collapse of the parking garage to which the Minister just referred, would it not be much more convenient, in the first line, to strengthen the information position of the municipality's supervisor, rather than making it dependent on a private quality assurance officer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u17	Let us at least agree that it does not happen enough now that it is with the municipality. So we have to change the system. I wouldn't necessarily like to talk about privatisation. In the end, there is a zbo above it that looks at whether the quality assurance officer is doing his job well, but about professionalising supervision, so that the people at the construction site can do what they are trained and appointed for, namely to see whether the construction project is going well and whether it is in good condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u18	The Minister is threatening to complicate the system by transferring a piece to the market. It's called privatisation in some circles. Some of it brings you to the market. Then you put a construction on top with a supervisor who has to pay attention. You can also regulate it in the first line, namely by strengthening the public authorities in its role rather than making a stepped system. That choice does not automatically lead me to the idea that things will suddenly be much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u19	I understand. If Mr. Lintmeijer and I were to rule this country together, we might make different choices. That is why I would stress that it has been a coherent package. I think this is a responsible choice. I don't think it's going well right now, and it's good to leave it to the professionals. Yes, the supervisors are not governments, but there is a ZBO upstairs that ensures that it works properly. The final maintainer is the competent authority, and those are the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u20	Last interruption, Mr. Chairman. I conclude that the public role is placed much more in a position of dependence on a quality assurance provider that actually operates in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u21	Each has its own role and one should not do it twice. That would be my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u22	Mr Van Hattem was already in the start, Mr Köhler, so I give him priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The competent authority is competent to maintain, but the question remains what it can maintain if it is unclear what information it itself has. That information has to be provided by the industry, right? How can the competent authority itself reliably check whether that information is sufficient to maintain it? I read in the draft decision that part of this is about experience with relevant authorities. Well, then it's all a little coffee-dipping, isn't it? How can a municipality effectively maintain so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u24	I don't think it's a cup of coffee. When you introduce a new system, you always have to keep your finger on the wrist and see how it works out. We have just talked about this when it comes to the introduction pathways. So I think we need to make clear tea from coffee floor, by making sure that we keep the finger on the wrist, that we monitor and that we hang the AMvB's well and in detail. We should also discuss them with the municipalities and then give the Chambers the opportunity to discuss them. In this way we can achieve a balanced result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u25	I read in the document that the assessment of whether there are sufficient quality checks will be done on the basis of performance of a contractor in the past. Then it's far too unclear, isn't it? The Minister just came up with the example of a thin sheet used in construction. This may be absurd, but in practice we can see that much depends on whether a concrete construction works with a single or double armament. And that really depends on cost considerations. It really takes very strict control to ensure that all of this is safe and sound. To leave that to the industry, while the agreements are very unclear... Isn't it just too early to come up with this law now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u26	Nor do I propose that we leave the sec to the industry. There's gonna be a supervisor and he's independent. This supervisor should pass on the building plans and assess whether they are sensible construction plans on the basis of his professionalism. I can imagine that the PVV does not say: let everything be done by the government. After all, there it is now, with the municipal government, and that does not always go well. Let me put it this way. So if we leave it to the professionals in future, with ultimately the enforcement task at the municipality, I think we have a clear division of labour. The municipality can then bless: we stop construction, because we get signals from quality assurance that it is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u27	The point is that the current system should be improved first. First, we need to see if we can improve the public system. Now we're gonna have an unclear system that's gonna be taken care of privately. We don't know how that system is going to work out. To then transfer such a great responsibility to quality assurance providers who have not yet clearly seen what they have to look after, other than that it goes on the basis of experience etc. ...If there are no clear criteria for this, of course we don't know how this is going to work out. Pilot projects have not yet produced any clear results. What certainty do we have that we are going to introduce a responsible system here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u28	It's always a trap to compare a bill to the ideal world. You have to compare it to what we have now. And now things regularly go wrong; we've seen the footage in the press today. It is therefore necessary to organise better monitoring. We do that in a slow trajectory. There's a lot of craftsmanship and refurbished. There is an enormous amount of coordination with all the parties involved. There has been an extensive debate in the House of Representatives. This is what's in store right now. In my view, it is a coherent package. Moreover, I have just promised to take an extra year for its implementation so that we can look at it in coordination with the Chambers in a responsible way. I can't give it more control from box K. I think this is a responsible way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u29	A few minutes ago, the Minister said that it was not so much a privatisation of construction supervision as a professionalisation. I'm surprised. Does he suggest, or does he mean to say that the current construction supervision is not carried out by professionals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u30	That it doesn't happen enough and that there aren't enough professionals who do. It's not like that in all places. In many places things are going great, but in a number of places things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u31	Oh, you mean to say it should be intensified. But of course this could also be done by the current professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u32	Yeah, well, they should, too. Then you enter the allocation of municipal budgets. As you know, this is subject to municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u33	No, then you will monitor whether the municipalities fulfil their legal tasks properly. It is a task of the provinces and the government to see to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u34	Well, you're actually doing the same thing with this law. Let me see if there is anything I can add to the relationship between supervision and the municipalities. I think we've all talked about it here. Then I shall continue with the questions put by group. Many of them have already been discussed in the general section. I have already spoken with Mrs De Vries about the interpretation of the amendments. I would like to say, also for the history of law, that what is before me is ultimately referred to as the underlying thought. I do not want to go into any further considerations that may have had former authors of motions or amendments. We have already talked about the duty of warning. I think I have answered all of Mrs De Vries' points. Otherwise, I might hear about it in second term. Then Mr. Pijlman. He wants to know if the AMvBs are gonna work out. The answer is yes. A decision has been made. Changes such as the introduction of subsequent classes 2 and 3 will be included in the Buildings Environment Decision. That decision shall be subject to a mandatory procedure for the submission of information. But anyway, we've created a time window to do that. Mr Pijlman also asked whether it might be possible for a building to be put into operation before the competent authority knows about it. Is that locked up? The Building Decision already provides that a building may not be put into service for the ready-to-use notification. In the draft decision, it has been added that the holder of the contract will report the building to the municipality ten days before it is put into operation. It is also new that he will have to add a dossier containing the statement by the quality assurance officer that the building complies with the construction regulations. The building shall not be put into service until after the ten days have elapsed. If the file is incomplete, the municipality may refuse entry into service within that period. The question of affordability has been discussed. I have already referred in the written reply to several studies that calculate that it would be cost-neutral or that it would yield 100 million on the positive side. However, that is such a small amount on the total amount of construction that we have not booked it. So I'm just gonna leave it in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u35	I'll be back on the ten-day term of the city. Once the file has been submitted, the municipality has ten days to formally regulate the commissioning. What happens in those ten days? What possibilities does the municipality have, for example, if there are signs that something is wrong, when it should officially go to the file and not be able to do the work of the quality assurance officer over again? Can the Minister clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u36	If there is uncertainty, the quality assurance officer is the first point of contact. It can answer the questions the municipality has. You can do that in a couple of days. That is what the fat week is meant for, so in case the municipality says "this is unclear to us in the file, can you explain that?'. This opportunity can be used for that. Then I come to Mr Lintmeijer's question. I appreciate that he separates the fire in London, which, of course, is going through all of us, from the discussion about how to set it up now. We'll have to wait and see. There was public oversight there, but apparently that wasn't good. It's not up to us to say smart things about that right now. We have to wait and see what we conclude on the ground. I have already spoken about the G-4, and we have also discussed it in the course of the interruption. How will the consistency with the Environmental Act be taken into account in the ICT impact analysis? The amendments to the Quality Assurance Act are implemented in the Environmental Window. At a later stage, when the Environmental Act enters into force, a new point of contact will be created and the existing provision of the Environmental Window will be placed in the new point of contact. Why only now the impact analysis ICT municipalities? Why hasn't that been investigated before? The UNG has recently pointed this out. The analysis identified the consequences for municipal ICT. They're picking that up now. It is also part of the implementation process that I started. That will be ready well before its entry into force. Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD asked about the financial components. He distinguished four: the fee, the reduction in failure costs, the cost of the quality assurance and efficiency gains. Shouldn't you be making one balance out of that? And shouldn't you say: that will be a very positive balance? The aim of the bill is indeed to improve the position of the construction consumer and improve the quality of the building. The objective is to achieve this at least at the same cost as in the current situation. So then you have a social profit against costs that are comparable. In January of last year, the Economic Institute for Construction calculated in my order, moreover, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Blok, that the introduction of the bill could be socially cost-neutral. The legislative proposal includes incentives that encourage cost-effective application. The main incentive is to increase the contractor's liability. We've already talked about that in detail. This will prevent errors and repair costs and reduce the cost of quality assurance. The application of certificates and approvals for construction products and construction concepts is also expected to prevent building defects, and thus repair costs, and reduce the quality assurance costs. Some pilot projects indeed show lower costs, including through a more efficient construction process and lower failure costs. It is not possible to foresee the extent to which these incentives will continue to work and whether they will be passed on to the construction consumer. But, of course, that is the intention. In the House of Representatives there has also been extensive discussion about this. I have already promised to keep my finger on the wrist. It can't be that profits disappear completely elsewhere. If good work is done, it should also lead to lower construction costs. I'll monitor that. I've already talked about liability. I thought I'd already given a full answer to that. The PvdA Group asked..... that was actually the main question... for time for the AMvB. I just promised. I propose that we take a little extra time after the summer and set the latest date for the contribution, if that is allowed, on 1 October, for example. The Chamber then has ample opportunity to contribute to that AMvB. Then I'll come to the permit conditions. In the new system, the municipality holds its current supervisory role and the corresponding enforcement powers. It strengthens the information position of the municipality, because, in addition to the risk assessment and a dossier on the building, it receives information from the quality assurance authority on deviations from the building regulations during the construction process. Where an infringement is found, the municipality may consider using its enforcement powers. As in the current system, it has the power to request information that it needs in order to reach a balance, and also to consider which instruments can be used. The ultimate instrument is eventually to shut down the construction or not to let it yield.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u37	Just on the point that just passed: the ten-day deadline. The city's asking for information. A quality assurance provider must provide it. If the information is not on time now, is the liability with the quality assurance authority or with the client? And if the municipality is considering assessing that information as insufficient, it should suspend the deadline. The question is whether the municipality is legally liable if it is considering extending the period in which it has to weigh the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u38	I understand the question and it listens closely; it is all part of the legal history. If Mr Verheijen agrees, I will come back to that in the second term. Does the quaity depositor have legal personality? It may be a legal person or a natural person. This is covered by the bill, namely Article 7a. That is actually the question that has just been asked in the event of interruption. So I'll come back to that. Then I come to the internality of supervision. In the new system, the quality assurance system will monitor the compliance of buildings with the building regulations. In addition, there are other regulations, such as the spatial aspects and environmental safety, where it is up to the municipality to monitor them. In addition, the municipality holds its supervisory role. She can also outsource it to the environmental service. I am not aware of any specific problems here, but it is primarily up to the municipality to ensure that there is good cooperation between the various bodies involved in monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mr Verheijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u40	I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u41	I had already explained to you the powers that will be conferred on the municipalities under the present legislative proposal and which will remain. The expiry of a number of tasks will alleviate any capacity problems. That is also confirmed by the VNG in its letter to the Upper House. However, in the transition to the new system, parties will always have to get used to their new roles. In the beginning, this may also lead to the need for additional capacity. Therefore, and to ensure that everyone is well prepared, I am preparing an implementation path with the municipalities. I am also preparing to support new pilot projects. Finally, I intend to monitor the functioning of the proposed system in the early years. Moreover, many municipalities already anticipate the introduction of the proposed system, inter alia by working with a flexible shell, whereby market testers are hired to carry out the work. This approach can also be useful in the transition to the new system. Municipalities are themselves responsible for distributing the capacity to carry out those tasks. And they are also best placed to make that assessment, tailored to the specific local circumstances. Then I come to the conclusions of Pro Facto's investigation. This concludes that the enforcement policy of the physical domain is most in order. I therefore also expect that the expected reduction in capacity for the supervisory activities of the municipalities can be achieved. I also reported in the presentation of Pro Facto's research in May this year that I will be discussing this with the VNG and the IPO in the coming months. I'll take the consequences into the conversations. It is the municipalities themselves that are best placed to weigh up, taking into account all the specific circumstances and the available resources. Then I'll get to the PVV Group. I have already answered one point. Can I guarantee that the fee will go down? Municipalities may charge fees for services, including for environmental permits for building. The determination of this is in principle an autonomous competence of the municipalities, but the total fee should not exceed the cost of covering the costs. The work of the municipalities is falling under the new system. Firstly, by exempting more buildings from the technical test, the so-called Bouwbericht category of test-free construction. Secondly, because the technical test expires for constructions which fall under the sub-category 1. Municipalities are not allowed to charge any more fees for this. It is precisely these small requests that the municipalities are now costing more money than they are collecting at a fee. This makes it obvious that the fee will fall. In a recent letter, the UNG endorses this position and states that it is committed to reducing fees. I will implement Mr Ronnes of the CDA's motion, which was adopted in the Lower House and which calls for an administrative agreement to be concluded with the municipalities on the reduction of the fees for building permits. I expect that these actions will lead to the desired reduction in the fee. How is it prevented that a critical quality assurance officer is no longer given orders? I think every quality assurance officer will be critical. That's what they've been appointed for. It has to be, because otherwise the person concerned will lose his job. Furthermore, the methods of acknowledgment are subject to prior approval by the admission organisation. That's a public-law Zbo. In addition, the admission organisations will carry out samples at the work of the quality assurance officer. So it's not an option not to be critical. I believe these were the questions of the PVV. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union has asked a number of questions. I've already talked about the G-4 response. With regard to the reduction of the fee, I refer to the answer I have just given to the PVV group. How is it not possible to check the quality assurance system on paper? That's a good point. In the new system, the quality assurance authority will not be able to check on paper. Indeed, it will have to justify its approval of the audited building parts with evidence, such as photographs or other evidence of execution. This requirement is based on the requirements that will be imposed on the instruments. The instrument provider shall be required to monitor the quality assurance provider and, inter alia, to verify whether it is effectively testing in practice. It's a good point to keep an eye on. How is it ensured that the integrated construction quality is better looked at? The quality assurance officer is specifically responsible for testing the building under construction regulations. The municipality seems to have insufficient capacity for this at the moment. I think that this will lead to an improvement on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u42	This will only lead to an improvement for the first category and not for the other two categories, to which the Minister has not so far declared this bill applicable. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u43	That's where it is, indeed. Furthermore, we will simply have to ensure that it does not happen on paper in the implementation. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u44	Those are the most complex projects. So I don't quite see what the profit is. For the most complex projects, the fact remains that it is done on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u45	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u46	Then I misunderstood the Minister. Then I hope he'll explain a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u47	There will be a quality assurance officer who will have to check that answer at the location I have just given, and who will have to back up his control with factual evidence and explain it to the municipality, which is enforcer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u48	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u49	I understand. However, it comes before the first category, the simple category. There are three categories, three follow-up classes. The first category, whose social impact is low, will be subject to this legislative proposal. The Minister said that this could be applied to these other building categories at a later date, after evaluations. This means that paper supervision, in the words of the Minister, remains in place for the most complex construction projects with the greatest societal impact. My question is therefore very specific as to what the Minister will do when this bill becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u50	Let me try to get Mrs Bikker back to that in the second term. We're gonna do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr Van Hattem has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u52	I would like to add that this is a question that I have also asked in the first term, which the Minister has not yet addressed. What is going to happen to those higher consequence classes as long as this phased introduction is not yet in force? The Minister himself says that the current system is inadequate. Should we continue to work with a failing system or can we expect improvements in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u53	That's actually the same question. I have already promised that I will return to that in the second term. I will also do so in the direction of Mr Van Hattem. What possibilities does the quality assurance authority itself have? He shall begin his assessment with the assessment of the risks of building and the assurance plan. He will, of course, discuss this with the contractor and the contractor. It will also inform the parties of any defects it encounters in the construction process and agree on the necessary recovery measures and the period within which they are to be taken. If the builder does not go to recovery, then indeed the ultimate option is to withhold the explanation, after which the maintainer can maintain it. What are the demands of society and consumers? What are they like in the bill? Actually, that's what I started. I think that the position of consumers is being greatly improved, which is only logical. I think I have had Mrs Bikker's questions with this, with the exception of the one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u54	I understand that this legislative proposal represents an innovation, including with regard to consumer requirements. However, my question concerned precisely the way in which this new system is going to be adaptive with regard to these new consumer requirements. Or are we gonna have this again in so many years? In fact, the bill "if we are going to regulate it now in future, the new demands of society and consumers will always be taken into account." However, when I read the bill, I see that it only clarifies liability. The Minister shakes his head, so I'm sure something very nice is about to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u55	Now I'm losing my touch. If the Chamber doesn't accept this, nothing will happen. If it accepts it, the consumer will be told from the contractor where the pipe was placed, what happened and what material was used. If anything else is going on, he is therefore informed about the product he has purchased for his expensive money. Moreover, if there is a defect, the contractor cannot say, as at present, that it should have been reported at the time of delivery. No, then the contractor will remain responsible for the things that can reasonably be attributed to him. That is a huge improvement in the position of consumers. That's what's in store here. I can't make it any prettier, but I like it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u56	Finally, Mrs Bikker. Otherwise, you'll have to come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u57	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u58	I'm gonna take a look at the SP's questions first. We talked about the duty of warning. If there is an error in the design, the contractor must give a written and unambiguous warning when he sees it. If he doesn't see it and it's discovered after delivery, he has to prove that that lack isn't attributable to him, or else he has to solve it himself. That is what applies under the new regime. I'm basically through now. There were many questions from Mrs De Vries of the CDA. Just to make sure I've answered them all. Maybe she can give me a hand here or I can't provoke an interruption, Mr. President? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by explaining to you at what point I did not do that. I saw by her body language...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u59	Well, it's an empathic thing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u60	It is, isn't it? But you also adopted a constitutional amendment this morning, so I'm sitting here shining.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u61	The vote is next week. Hello, hello.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u62	I have not often experienced such a detailed debate having such a brief answer. That's not a negative point, by the way. It's okay for the Minister to look up. I am concerned that this liability and that supervision are all well and good in the law. I also really believe that the intentions referred to by the Minister are genuine. However, I am concerned about the way it works out. I'm not convinced of that. The Minister did not actually go into that, except that he says that the construction consumer is better off with it and that he still has time to settle the transfer file when the introduction is postponed. In fact, he did not answer the specific questions. The question is whether this should be done, if he says: I am not going to deal with the amendments, I am just going to deal with the law. However, these amendments have changed that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u63	I think it's best if you respond to this in second term, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u64	No. I don't have that much to add. Those amendments remain on top of it. There is a change compared to what the CDA in the House of Representatives wanted in the sense that there is no difference in the law now before us. We have only one law and that is the one that is now before us between the position of the private client and that of the professional or large client. I know that's what the CDA wanted. However, that is not what is going on here. I would also like to defend that in substance. If you did make that distinction, I think you'd have endless discussion about what would be a professional client. You have small professional clients or people who are private clients, but are employed somewhere in construction. Should he have known? In that discussion we said: let us remove that distinction. I'm not gonna change that now. For the rest, I have responded to the point made by Mrs De Vries and others, namely that we should talk even better with the municipalities about the implementation and the AMvB. For this reason, I have now promised not to do so in the Lower House, but I have now decided to postpone the date of introduction for a year. I have invited you to take the space in the period over the summer, which is another three months, to provide input for what you would otherwise like in the AMvB before it is established. Then there can be another debate on it. So I am also trying to meet the wishes of the CDA as much as possible. Let me close with that. Once again, and in summary, I believe that there is now an opportunity to achieve this coherent package. It is also timely, because we are on the eve of a major wave of construction in the Netherlands. I think that we all have a responsibility to ensure that the quality of construction is achieved as well as possible. I therefore hope that this Chamber will support this proposal. I will come back to two points in the second term, namely on the ten days and the higher classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u65	We are now ready for the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries-Legge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Before I start, I want to make one thing clear. We have a role here as First Chamber. We are testing for legality, feasibility and enforcement, and not on the basis of lobby and not even on the basis of "sustainability" that applies to me, at least, from what happened in the House of Representatives or not. So let me get this straight. That's right. We have discussed a number of points in our contribution, including those which have been incorporated into the law and which have led to a change in the law. With regard to the original law, the Minister insisted that liability is a choice; that is in the law and you have to respect that. He also thinks it's a valuable part of the law. We are concerned in particular about the way in which it is being worked out. How is that designed? Is that indeed feasible and enforceable? Or have you created, through what has happened, that the treatment is simply part of what the law proposes, even for lawyers later on, something that will lead to disputes in advance and will lead to uncertainty and inability to do so? Those questions have not been taken away from me at the moment. On the feasibility of the law, the Minister says with regard to quality assurance versus the municipal government, to put it another way, that what he gains in time by shifting the date of introduction for a year provides ample opportunity to simply look in the field at how that role is played. I can imagine that, but then certain things are defined in the law and they will not be changed if the law is passed. The law states that a government must not review and do the work of the quality assurance officer again. So that's not gone. The same applies to liability. Even if I were to say that liability is a political choice and that we are not political and therefore merely looking at whether it is properly laid down in the law, then the way it is laid down will lead to conflicts about the interpretation given to it. My question would therefore be: is the interpretation of the law, for example the practical introduction of liability and the piece of supervision of construction in due course, well thought out? I've also looked at what happened abroad. I've looked into whether the countries around us have a correct system. The answer is no. For example, France, which was quoted, has a system of insurance, but this applies not only to the contractor but also to the client. So there are a lot of different systems that I think are: gosh, take a good look at them, see how you can take advantage of them and what you can do better. In my opinion, that has not happened enough. I shall await the second answer. There's been 20 years of work on the law, so you'll have to take a look at what you'd throw away. But from what we have here, I think: well, Minister, saying that it is a huge improvement for the consumer, that you get warm feelings about liability, for example, or that we can still see how we can implement it if we postpone the law a little bit, I think a little bit ignores the letter of the law, and we should also check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Everyone here in this house wants the building quality to increase and consumers' rights to be better safeguarded. That is why we have spent 20 years working on the proposal now before us. Let us be honest: within the current system, control is certainly not optimal and takes place mainly on paper. To those Members who say that this is a privatisation, I say: yes, there are more private elements in this legislative proposal, the quality assurance of which is a very important one, but at the same time little attention has been paid to it in this debate. In my view, this is not a privatisation. The responsibilities are invested differently. Our concerns, which I expressed in the first term, were mainly in the area of feasibility. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to D66, which I regard as extremely important. One: the date of introduction until 1 January 2019. Two: an extended procedure for the presentation of the AMVBs, which will allow us to influence them and to deepen the consultation with the VNG. Three: clear information to the consumer on the new position he is taking. Four: monitor the entire implementation process and inform us about it. These are extremely important points for my group. The Minister has also been clear about the liability regime, but on one point I would like to ask an enlightening question. I have tried to do so in the event of interruption, but I do not think I have yet received a clear answer. The question concerns the last period in which the municipality must decide whether a building may be put into service, that ten-day period. Now suppose there are indications in the report or from outsiders that mistakes have been made. So what is the legal position of the competent authority? For example, can the municipality impose a ban on use? This was also the subject of some of the criticism expressed this morning, for example by the G-4. I think we need to clarify that. Finally. With the promises made by the Minister, I will advise my group to respond positively to this bill, even though, of course, the group will ultimately make its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. In his reply, the Minister made it clear once again that he makes a distinction between strengthening the position of consumers and improving supervision; two different elements in the legislation. As regards the strengthening of the consumer's position, you do not need the whole system change in order to be able to check whether the tiles have got the right colour and the sheet is in the right place. You can also just strengthen that in consumer law, if you think that in the contractor-customer relationship that should improve that. That route wasn't chosen. It was laid down in a much more complicated bill. In the first term, I said that it was actually very surprising... I used the word 'bizar'.... that, after so many hundred years of building in this country, we still have to remind the builders of their responsibilities towards the consumer and that we need new legislation that is linked to a system change. We do not believe that this is a convincing basis for adopting this bill. Then improve or change the supervisory system. My group would not have made the choice of making it a partial or partial privatisation. My group would have chosen much earlier to strengthen public oversight, precisely because it has to deal with the issues of security, sustainability and everything that comes in handy in the public role. Apart from the fact that in subsequent classes 1, 2 and 3 this should lead to other considerations and information positions. If the Minister chooses to do so, it would be wise to lay down the requirements that you attach to them in the best possible way. But we see here, whatever we see in other legislation, that some sort of hull law is being worked. This is not quite the case, but it is a law that needs a whole system of General Administrative Measures in its effect, in which the legal basis is less, and also less can be tested by this Chamber for its feasibility and enforcement than if we had regulated it at once in the law. This is a development that we generally do not like, and certainly in this legislation it leads to a few questions that remain open. Then it seems good that the Minister says: go ahead, then we postpone the legislation for a year. But that does not solve that fundamental problem. Because with that we may or may not adopt a law that still leaves those questions open and then again we have to work with the Minister on a General Measure of Governance that we are not actually formally discussing. For my group, therefore, there is still a great deal to be done. We are, of course, waiting for the Minister's reply in the second term, but we in the group will still have to give a firm thought to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. In the first round, some political groups asked for certainty as to whether a new system would work and that a new system would not be defective. I think the Minister was right to point out that certainty for the future is not really possible. The only thing we have certainty about is looking back at the past. And then we see that, no matter how this happened, municipalities did not, sometimes not even supervise the construction and during the construction process. We have the Dekker Committee's report. We have given it that municipalities themselves also outsource a lot of supervision to private companies. This does not make it certain that private supervision will go well, but it makes it highly likely, all the more so because it has been said many times that public supervision will continue. I would like to draw attention to the Zbo and municipal responsibility in the area of public security. Municipalities, at least as I have experienced in the contacts with the VNG, have a basic willingness to participate in a new system as it stands, but they naturally make their demands. That is not new, because all those involved in this process have made their demands, just as they all show the willingness to participate. That should then take shape in the coming year. I welcome the Minister's commitment to add a year to the period of consultation. He's gonna need that year, too. It's a knit and it's very hard to change things in there. This will require a great deal of consultation, but could also lead to the tightening of borders which may not yet be clear enough. We do not think that we should force that in a certain direction by not adopting the bill now, as the G-4 suggest. On the contrary, we see a great willingness on the part of all those concerned to cooperate. We are confident that the Minister will be able to bring this to a successful conclusion. So I will propose to my group that we vote in favour of this proposal. We, too, of course, have a discussion on this, so I cannot predict the outcome of the group meeting, but I shall propose that we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. We would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the commitment made on the deadline for the entry into force of this law. I think it is right that we should also take a moment after dealing with the AMVB's suspension procedure when we can take the 'go/no go' decision on feasibility. There is an element behind this in ICT facilities. The Minister briefly addressed that, but that's a tough file if you compare it with what's under discussion before the Environment Act. The Minister also has discussions with the umbrella organisations, in particular the VNG. The pro facto report the minister mentioned doesn't suit us yet. It is also a question of what is the responsibility of the government to provide adequate supervision, in coordination with the local authorities, and what is the autonomous responsibility of the municipalities themselves. The system is based on co-management, standards that we set at a state level in the Building Decree and which are then deemed to be implemented by the municipalities. This is not just an autonomous responsibility of the municipalities. It's a shared responsibility. We would therefore argue in favour of discussing the outcome of the consultation with the UNG in the context of this shared responsibility here in order to see whether it gives sufficient confidence to implement it. This then immediately responds to the way in which liability and supervision are regulated in the finesses of the ministerial regulations and the AMvBs. The Minister will reply to the ten-day deadline and the question of suspension that may be associated with it. But we have confidence in the law as amended in the House of Representatives, which provides for our starting points for strengthening chain liability in the sector, coupled with a better position for consumers. In doing so, I will give my group a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u71	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for his first answer. As Mr Lintmeijer rightly pointed out, improving the position of the construction consumer does not require any change in the system. This could have just happened with an adaptation of the Civil Code, without the other adjustments. It could have been pulled away. Then the discussion would also be less complicated, probably, with regard to that part. It is not necessary to adapt the whole system for this purpose. The independence of quality assurance agencies remains a point of discussion. According to the Minister, it is not an option not to be critical as a quality assurance officer. That would be the most desirable situation, but it is a theory. In practice, quality assurance agencies can come into a position where they are dependent on certain interests and, of course, on the revenue on the contrary. Then you can get annoying situations where the independence and critical capacity of quality assurance agencies can be put under pressure. Then the question is how strong this system is. Several pilot projects have not produced satisfactory results. There is also a need for pilot projects, at the request of market players. That's a nice thing to do, but it doesn't say anything about the strength of this system. When it comes to whether we should introduce this law at the moment, we must come to the conclusion that there is still too much uncertainty, including with regard to enforcement. What should the municipalities base enforcement on? It is therefore not desirable to introduce this law at this time. I will therefore advise the PVV Group not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. The Minister began with a friendly commitment that he would like to postpone the adoption of this law for a year, thereby giving room for further reflections on the implementation of the AMvBs that will be attached to it. But it is precisely with this that a number of points remain uncertain, which is precisely the role of the municipality, both in its enforcement role and in its supervisory role, which is still partly there. The remark of the city of The Hague when stopping the pilots... we are now a blindfolded supervisor, was said................................................................................................................................................ If we agree to the law at the moment, I do not know whether I am putting municipalities in the position of a blindfolded supervisor or in the position in which they can actually supervise. In replying to the Minister, I lacked a vision of what all this means for the political responsibility in this matter. I have outlined what it means to have a citizen report to the municipality with a failure, after which he is sent to the quality assurance officer to address it first. Can the municipality then sit on its hands, if it actually feels that it is likely to have to maintain it? I would like to reflect on this political responsibility and on whether the system is feasible in that sense. Then the issue of the paper test. I assume that the President will give me a little more time to do so, because I have just refrained from interrupting. The Minister wants to ensure that it does not end there. I want to ask him if he wants to make that part of the evaluation. However, the paper test that the minister sees so clearly in municipal building supervision remains valid for the most complex projects, the consequence classes 2 and 3. Those are the most risky projects. I would expect the Empire to make an effort to improve on these points. I miss that once in a while in the bill. I look forward to the Minister's response. We had an exchange of views on the new demands made by society and consumers. I don't think that's gonna take the whole bill. This could also be seen purely in consumer law and liability. You can do that in public oversight, right? We also believe that the quality of the building should be increased. The Minister calls this bill professionalisation, rather than privatisation. However, investing a large part of the supervision of private quality assurance agencies is also simply a shift from the public system to a public-private configuration. The added value of this has not convinced me yet. I will also pass this on to my group, because I fear that the increase in the supervisory system and the ultimate responsibility of the competent authority which has not yet been crystallised in the adoption of this law will ultimately give far too much confusion. I was therefore in agreement with Mr Pijlman's suggestion for a feasibility test. But now that we have seen the first pilots, which have been stopped, the G-4 has responded on that basis, and the Minister thinks that we should wait for the AMvBs, the feasibility test, as far as we have had it, has not yet been successful as far as I am concerned. This means that I will go back to my group with a serious look, fearing that we will eventually vote against it. But the minister's gonna answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u73	Mr. Chairman. The Minister concludes that if we do not adopt this bill, there will be no failure to monitor or improve the position of the construction consumer. Well, that makes sense, because this is the only proposal the Minister is offering us in this area. He calls it craftsmanship himself. I would not use such a disrespectful term for it, but the concrete improvements which the Minister aims to achieve are put together in a complicated system, after which he calls it coherent. In this sense, it is, but the minister's successor could provide a different solution to the specific problems that need to be addressed, rather than setting up a comprehensive system, many of which have doubts as to whether it will improve. My group, and I believe other groups, have not said that a complete privatisation of construction supervision will take place if this bill is adopted. What we have said is that there is a privatisation of important supervisory tasks. The Minister has certainly not convinced us of the usefulness of this. The Minister said about the way in which municipalities can carry out their tasks, which will be further discussed. The AMVBs that are coming to that point are, I believe, one. But with regard to Mr De Vries' amendments, which have been adopted, the Minister says: I have my own interpretation; the applicant's interpretation does not matter anymore. But with that he also says: what else is being discussed, to the wishes of the G-4 in this area, who bring that in as some sort of forerunners of the municipalities, I cannot meet. That's when you get double task, and the Minister doesn't want that. In fact, the Minister says: we are going to consult a great deal, but I am not responding to the criticism of the municipalities. While these municipalities themselves find that they will not be able to fulfil their responsibilities in the new system. I think that is a rather serious observation. The Minister has not been very clear about the financial picture, except his reference to old studies, which are criticized by others on all sides. The Minister said that the new system involves a number of savings, but also additional costs, which are partly falling to different parties. It is therefore difficult, according to the Minister, to add it all up. But in the end the Minister said: all in all, it seems to be a positive picture. I believe that on this important point, one of the guiding reasons for this law is that it will lead to cost savings, accompanied by better quality control, a rather hesitant wording of the Minister. I doubt he'll believe it himself if he chooses such cautious words. Building the Netherlands, which speaks on behalf of the building parties, where the costs and savings are to be cut to a large extent, doubts in a letter from me on 23 June whether the sum of the additional costs and savings will be positive. For the time being, therefore, in view of the Minister's hesitant position, I will go along with that. The new balance between responsibilities and a better system is, in my view, not achieved with the current state of affairs. The G-4, as forerunners of the municipalities, say they're against it this way. Building the Netherlands, as the main representative of the builders and contractors, is against this bill. Only the clients, such as Aedes and others, for which the new system offers only advantages, say: give it to us. But that's too skinny for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u74	You're talking about the municipalities and the G-4. At some point the municipalities are the forerunners of the municipalities. With that, you're throwing all these municipalities into one pile. I recognise the importance of the big cities, but there are still a few hundred municipalities in the Netherlands. In the letter from the VNG, they clearly indicated that they want to cooperate in principle, but they do have their demands on a number of points and want to talk about them and want to spend an additional year on them. Where does Mr Köhler get the conviction that the municipalities would reject it as firmly as he now says? That's contrary to the letter they wrote recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u75	That is a clear question. In the last letter the VNG wrote about this, she says she would like to participate in the further development of the system. It says, among other things, that the municipal responsibility on the two points on which Mr De Vries' two amendments were also concerned has not yet been properly worked out and that this will have to be done in greater detail. Subsequently, after the examination in the Lower House of the draft amendment of the Building Decree, the G-4 said that the improvements they want are apparently not in it. At that time, the G-4 set out very concretely what these improvements should be, in the same way as the letter from the VNG. I then asked the Minister whether he would like to make those improvements in the further consultation. At that time, the Minister made it clear that he was not going to do so, because in turn there would be far too many tasks in the municipality and then there would be a duplication of work. I understand the Minister's interpretation, but he says: I do not respond to the criticism of the G-4, nor do I respond to the VNG's question. Mr Schouwenaar should read the letter afterwards. I'd like to grab him and quote him. That's my reasoning. That's why I call the G-4 forerunners of the municipalities. Their question was in line with the question already contained in the VNG letter. They said, "This is not enough for us; it is not enough for us." The latter has not yet spoken, but I have not said so here either. Building the Netherlands, as the main representative of the contractors, is not happy either. I had stuck to my conclusion. I will advise my group not to take this leap in the dark, and I predict that my group will follow my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u76	I understand the Minister wanted a brief suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u77	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I owe the Chamber two answers to questions from the first term. I would then like to look at the overall assessment, given the views I have heard from the Chamber in the first and second periods. Mrs Bikker's question was about the municipalities and their role in the review of subsequent classes 2 and 3. Firstly, the adjustments to liability will also apply to subsequent classes 2 and 3. This could, of course, have a certain effect and give an incentive to the builders to do good work. Otherwise, of course, it remains the responsibility of the municipalities to do so. I can promise that I will talk to them to see how I can support them in carrying out that responsibility, including for classes 2 and 3. That's what I'm telling you. The short answer to Mr Pijlman's question is 'yes'. Can the municipality suspend the ten-day term? Yeah, the city can do that. As long as this is done, the structure must not be put into operation. There can be no liability of the municipality then, of course. If I consider it that way and add it up, the support of this Chamber for the proposal currently depends on the view of the CDA Group. I would be very sorry if this overall package, which, in my view, improves construction quality for builders and consumers, would disappear in a simple vote. So I will do my utmost to try to see whether there are any opportunities to move in this Chamber, as I have heard the views of this Chamber. I would ask the House to note that I will send a letter for next Tuesday's votes and that I intend to consider in the Cabinet, for example, whether it would be an option to ask the First Chamber to postpone the votes at all until the AMVBs are there, so that perhaps more clarity can be created. Perhaps there are other ways to try to respond to the views of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u79	May I suggest to the Minister that the vote depends equally on the votes of the SP Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u80	I didn't get that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u81	The Minister may also consider meeting us more closely in his further reflections. In other words, I do not understand very well that the Minister is merely asking for further consideration to be given to the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u82	In all honesty, I did not get the impression for a moment that Mr Köhler was in dubio whether he would support this proposal. Otherwise, of course, I would do my utmost to do so. My impression, however, was in the first and second periods that the judgment was established.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u83	I didn't listen to the CDA spokesperson any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u84	First of all, the CDA supported the proposal in the Lower House. There are a number of specific points to which Mrs De Vries has objected. She wants to look at it, but she is not opposed to it. That's something else, isn't it? Once again, if Mr Köhler can still give me a handshake, I am more than interested. Otherwise, I would ask him to take note of this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u85	I am very honored that our party is mentioned. That's not the point. It is indeed the arguments that have been exchanged here in the Chamber to ensure that you get the best possible proposal. I heard the Minister say that he will have that letter here for next Tuesday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u87	Then we can take him into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u88	In fact, let me try to do that for the group councils that will take place that morning so that you can include that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u89	In order to prepare our debate a little bit, I wonder what the Minister can offer in a letter. We either pass a law or we don't accept it. I'm very curious. Maybe he can light up a little bit of the veil. What kind of commitments, which could help us in our deliberations, should we think about? We don't have more choice than yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u90	I think I just said that. I could, for example, ask you to hold the vote on the bill until the AMvB comes before you, so that you have clarity about the AMvB that follows before you decide whether you support the bill. Perhaps there are alternatives. For the time being, the law as such has been adopted by the Lower House. If you want to change the substance of this, you have to think of a novelle, but then you have to focus on the political support for it. So that's what I need to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u91	I hope that the letter will really be there in time, but I would like to announce that I do not rule out the need for a third deadline to discuss the Minister's weighting in this Chamber as well. Anyway, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u92	I'm going to go into this before I give the floor to the Minister. I think that letter should be there on Friday afternoon, otherwise the consultation period for Members of Parliament will be too short. It cannot be that the letter is late Monday night and that it still has to be discussed on Tuesday morning. The letter should then be there Friday at the end of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u93	That seems feasible to me, because the cabinet council usually does not extend until the end of the afternoon. That just gives me the space to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u94	I would like to point out a point that is always taken seriously in this Chamber. In principle, we are not very much in favour of getting AMVBs to see the light of day, while a law has not yet been passed. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u95	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u96	It is clear that the Minister has promised that the spokesmen will have a letter at the end of the day or at the beginning of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u97	I'm here to deal with the bill. I will formally ask if any of the Members would like a vote on the legislative proposal, but that question seems to me already answered. Are you going to say that you do not want a vote, Mr Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u98	Maybe just for the proper rounding. The President closed the debate, but it has just been said that there may be a third deadline next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u99	One doesn't rule out the other. I have just closed the debate. If a third deadline is requested, it must be requested from the Chamber. The Chamber must give leave for that. At the moment, the debate on the ordinary treatment of the law is now over today. If we want a third deadline next week, we will ask the Chamber whether a third time limit is allowed. There will then be a third time limit if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u100	Clear. I was more concerned with the timing of the vote. Is that supposed to happen or is it going to happen now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u101	No, that must take place, because the Chamber must in its entirety...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u102	... to deal with a request for a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-6.u103	Yeah, is it clear to everyone? I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday, but as you know, there will be another letter from the Minister.
