ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. I understand a cyclist's union representative is in the stands. I'd like to welcome him. We have agreed in the Chamber that we evaluate subsidy schemes every five years. They will then be stopped or we will have to decide again to continue. At the same time, we are voting in favour of the Fietsersbond. I am tabling a motion because the answer was not entirely clear and in the meantime a new Agenda bike has appeared. My motion is on those two points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the policy of cycling at its core is carried out by local authorities;]] [[noting that a Agenda Bicycle 2017-2020 has recently been published in which among others. strengthening the knowledge infrastructure has been included as an objective;]] [[noting that there are many (knowledge) parties active in the field of cycling policy, including the Cyclists Association, and it is not clear how the Grant Scheme Cyclists Association relates to this;]] [[Considering that the Bicycles Federation 2017 Grant Scheme provides the basis for the grant in the coming years, which does not specify how the objectives and actions of the Bicycle Agenda will be implemented and translated into the Bicycles Association, and that it does not provide a clear evaluation framework for the grant scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to link the objectives of the grant to the Fietsersbond more clearly with the objectives of the Agenda Bicycle, to evaluate them in the interim and to review the grant scheme in terms of content, where appropriate, in the coming years and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	It may be an open shot, but I would like to draw attention to another point. We have had several discussions here about subsidies and what happens when there is competition with market activities. Mr Smaling also reminded us of this. We tabled a motion together on the driving school chooser. I asked for this, and I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister once again that, under a subsidy scheme, economic activities are closely monitored in order to prevent people from going to court because there is unfair competition. This applies not only to this subsidy, but now happens to be the subsidy of the Fietsersbond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the following. D66 encourages everyone to exercise and move more. The government is also allowed to make this a bit more attractive and to stimulate it.I am thinking, for example, of gymnastics at school or the construction of sports squares and make sure that the cyclist in the Netherlands can get out of the way. The Fietsersbond is the interest association for 13.5 million cyclists in the Netherlands and has been working successfully for years for, among other things, better fast cycling routes and road safety for cyclists, and for sufficient bicycle storage. This is urgently needed, because good bike facilities mean that more bikes are being cycled. And: the more people ride their bikes, the fewer road victims. Moreover, cycling is healthy for the cyclist and for his environment, because cycling does not pollute. I cannot think of any reason why the Cyclists' Association should not simply be able to continue this good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Agenda bike is indeed very important to me. Mrs Visser asked the government to link the objectives of the grant to the Fietsersbond more clearly to the goals of the Agenda bike and to evaluate them in the interim. I will. The Fietsersbond is an active partner in this tour de force. Linking the annual plans for the grant therefore supports my policy. Mrs Belhaj has made a whole speech about the healthy effects of the bicycle. I think we're all seeing these effects. In recent years cycling policy has mainly been transferred to municipalities. During this period we have reduced this policy more, because we see how important the combination of road, public transport and bike is to shape the multimodal policy. I see the motion as a useful addition to my policy. We'll involve her in the annual plans. I'll take over the motion with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	The Fisher motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	We will, of course, ensure that no funding is provided when projects and products qualify as economic activities. This is also stated in Article 2 of the subsidy scheme. We will also review this every year in the draft activity plan which will be sent to us all around 1 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	This brings an end to this VSO Grant Scheme Cyclists Association. The motion tabled will not be put to the vote because it has been adopted. I see that the participants in the next consultation are already present. Then we'll go straight on to the next topic.
