ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. The general consultation was also held with the Secretary of State, but the Chamber agreed that the Minister should take it off alone today. As always, speaking time is two minutes per group, including tabling any motions, which are preferably short and concise. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's about Greece again. We have been debating this since 2010. Today, the AD headlines "New Greek drama threatens." Yesterday, the NOS headlined "The crisis is blowing up again." The euro countries are 250 billion lighter, but we are back to square one. It's a prayer without end and it's been the same shriek for six, seven years. Greece refuses further reform, meets only one third of the commitments and refuses to reduce pensions. In fact, in December it gave 1.5 million Greek pensioners a Christmas bonus of €388. The total cost of this is 620 million euros, of our taxpayers' money. I can't explain it. The Minister can't explain it. No one can explain. But it still happens. If the PVV asks us to do something extra for our elders, she'll be hoarded away. Is the minister here for the Greeks or for the Dutch? I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch taxpayer has already granted more than 20 billion aid to Greece;]] [[noting that Greece has distributed a Christmas bonus of €388 to 1.5 million Greek elderly people of our money, without consultation and without permission;]] [[noting that the pensions of our own Dutch elderly are not indexed and may be reduced;]] [[calls on the government to stop providing billions of aid to Greece and instead to compensate our own elderly for the loss of purchasing power they have suffered during this cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	The IMF is ringing alarm bells about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	If you're going to table another motion, you're going to have to start doing so quickly, because I'm sticking to the rules here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The IMF is no longer participating in this waste of money, at this bottomless pit. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Greece has already received more than EUR 250 billion in emergency aid from the euro area countries and the IMF;]] [[Whereas the Greeks have repeatedly failed to comply with the agreements;]] [[noting that the IMF has classified Greece's debt as unsustainable and no longer participates;]] [[Whereas participation by the IMF has always been a precondition for Germany and the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the chances of us ever getting our money back are getting smaller;]] [[calls on the government not to pour another penny into this bottomless pit of Greece and to immediately recover the billions lent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. There is a large tax avoidance route through the Netherlands through the CV/e.g. structures, which means that large American multinationals in particular are lugging away a lot of money. It's tens of billions. The European Commission has made a good proposal to address hybrid mismatches. However, the Netherlands has laid down its position and has said that it wants to postpone this until 2024. I have tabled a motion on this before and it has been adopted. The Minister should have said in Europe that the Netherlands does not want this postponement, but did not. This is also apparent from a document by the German Ministry of Finance, which is now being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	This is a message from the Bundesministerium der Finanzen. This is now being addressed to the members and to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	It says that the Netherlands reiterates its position. Of course you can't. We have not adopted a motion for that in the House of Representatives. That's why I'm filing another motion. The Minister said that the Chamber was unclear. Then I'd like to clarify things from the Chamber. We don't want a delay. We do not want to allow companies to pay taxes anywhere for another seven years. This is a double exemption. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that hybrid mismatches with third countries, which could lead to double non-taxation, should not last until 2024;]] [[calls on the Government, in a European context, to agree to the proposed 2019 implementation date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Van Weyenberg, Grashoff and Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. Three motions have been tabled. In the Van Dijck motion on pieces Nos. 1413 and 1414 are the same in essence, namely: stop supporting Greece. The first motion adds that instead our own older people must be compensated for the loss of purchasing power. The second motion adds that the amounts lent must be recovered immediately. I dissuade both motions. There is a certain eagerness in the media to talk about "crisis" and "drama" as soon as there is a rippling around Greece. The term "Greek drama" always works well. It's not very original anymore. You can almost figure out what the headline's gonna be like in the paper tomorrow. We are working steadily on tackling the problems in Greece. This sometimes leads to discussion as to whether the pace is high enough and whether the measures are good, but they do not lead away from the course that we are pursuing, namely that Greece itself must put its own house in order. Under these conditions, we can continue to help Greece. It is not about gifts, as Mr Van Dijck always suggests. It's about loans. He knows that too, because that's what the motion says. In the second motion, he refers to 'the amounts lent'. I dissuade both motions. Under the conditions that the Greeks take further steps, maintain budgetary discipline and further reform, we are prepared to continue to support Greece. The worst way, if you really don't want your money back, is to trigger bankruptcy, as suggested in the second motion. Then you can really put the debt securities in the stove. I would strongly advise the Chamber not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	Of course, the whole media hype was created because of the IMF. I do not hear the Minister, but the IMF has said that it is no longer involved, that it is unsustainable and that the money is deposited in a bottomless pit. According to the IMF, debt rises to 265% in 2060. In other words, it doesn't make any sense. Either you cancel Greece's debts, so that Greece can reform properly, or you throw Greece out of the euro. That would be even better for Greece. Then it can really reform again and grow economically. The question is, of course, what will this minister, as a minister and not as President of the eurogroup, do if the IMF pulls the plug.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr Van Dijck firmly and very confidently claims that the IMF has decided not to participate anymore, but the latter is not the case. The IMF meeting was about a so-called Article 4 report. Such a report is produced by the IMF on all countries that are members of the IMF. Such reports also appear on the Netherlands. There are critical considerations about the things that go well and the things that go bad. With us they are a little more positive than with Greece; that is obvious. I can only share that analysis. However, it is not a decision as to whether the IMF is withdrawing from the cooperation in Greece it is now simply participating in. The IMF is simply involved in all discussions on further reforms, budgetary policy and so on. The majority of the Chamber is quite clear about it; if the IMF does not participate and would really withdraw, as Mr Van Dijck already knows, then the support for the programme will be withdrawn. This is exactly the same in the German Parliament. So that's the position of the Dutch government. The involvement of the IMF is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am a little hesitant, Mr Van Dijck. I like the debate, you know that, but we're all gonna get this. What you really need to do here is ask the Minister how he reached the verdict on the motion and not so much anymore. Otherwise it'll get a little complicated, but okay, we'll see where we go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	Is the President going to tell me what to ask the Minister? We can trade you a few things, and you'll be standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Well, no, but in a general consultation report, you know that, we are not going to have all kinds of serious substantive discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	No, but that general consultation was last week and the day before yesterday and yesterday the newspapers were full of Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	You will then have to request a separate debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	The general consultation was also about Greekand. So it makes sense for us to build on this now. My question about the IMF's participation is whether it is financial participation or merely participation in the current troika. The IMF has not actually been participating in the third aid package for a year and a half and is the first to be reimbursed. The IMF is therefore almost completely financially out of it, because it is the first to get everything repaid and it is no longer participating in the third aid package. Does participation in the IMF and, therefore, the support of the Netherlands for aid to Greece mean financial participation or participation in the current troika?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr President, I am happy to answer that question again, but you are right that it has really been discussed in the AA. This is a substantive and financial contribution from the IMF. Moreover, it is not at all true that the IMF is financially out of it. It still has billions of loans to Greece. Nor is the IMF the first to be repaid. There are also loans to, for example, the ECB which are discussed during the year. So you are confusing all the facts, sorry, not you, Mr President, I would never blame you, but Mr Van Dijck does. Anyway, that's all fixed now. It remains that we just have to pull steadily at the right end of the rope. I don't think it's wise to cut the rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Van Dijck's point: next week there will be a general consultation in which this problem can also be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 1415 is about ATAD 2. This concerns the proposal to address hybrid mismatches with third countries, which leads to non-payment of taxes. Mr Merkies says that the Netherlands has gone ahead with this proposal. That too has already been changed: there is no question of that. The Netherlands has said that it is prepared to support this proposal. The CV/e.g. route via the Netherlands is also dead. We have just said that we want a slightly longer period to be able to implement it because it has a big impact on the Netherlands. There was a motion by Mr Merkies, which was also adopted, stating that there should be no long delay. Apparently that was a bad motion because Mr Merkies later regretted it very much. At least I carried out that motion neatly. In the Ecofin Council, I merely advocated a delay. German officials summarize this as: the Niederlande wiederholen ihren Standpunkt. It's been noted. So be it. I know what I said in the Ecofin Council. That was in line with the Merkies c.s. motion. Now there's a new motion Merkies c.s. for, which doesn't say anything about delay at all. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. However, it is extremely complicated for the cabinet to bring together different statements of the Chamber. There has also been a yellow card procedure on exactly this same proposal. A majority of the House has said: we do not want the whole proposal; we give it a yellow card. A motion has also been tabled to say: it should not take too long; the proposal must be introduced quickly. But today Mr Merkies is tabling a motion saying that it should be introduced as soon as possible and that there should be no delay. I don't know if that motion will make it. The First Chamber also issued a yellow card for the proposal. She doesn't need it either. The cabinet is trying to put all this together. That's extremely complicated. Our position is: we are going to do this internationally. We're working loyally on that. It is our preference that the US Government itself should tax American profits. The cabinet's position is that there may be some delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	Nevertheless, is your judicium "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	Now that I think about it, that's actually too flexible. I dissuade the motion, because the Chamber really needs to think about consistency. At least the cabinet can't turn it into chocolate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	I thought I could tell from your answer. That's why I asked you specifically what your judicium is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	I am doing this precisely because I want to clarify for the Minister of Finance. He also misinterpreted my previous motion. I said that we do not want that long delay, but he interpreted it as: we do not want to delay for long periods. The Minister deliberately pretends that we want a little delay, but we do not want that long delay. Anyway, the Minister misunderstands. That is precisely why I have tabled this new motion. In that we make it very clear that we do not want a postponement. If the Chamber is for that, I think that's a clear message. I assume that the Minister will actively advocate it, and not by saying nothing, that was last time a bit of the story, but by actively saying: The Netherlands wants to introduce in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	Let's see if the motion gets passed. I really suggest to the House that we consider what the cabinet should do if, on the one hand, a map is drawn saying that the Chamber does not want the whole proposal and, on the other hand, a motion has been adopted which says: we want it in the shortest possible time. I take the Chamber extremely seriously. I have the previous motion Merkies c.s. also taken extremely seriously. I did not repeat the plea that the cabinet initially made for the longer delay. I took that previous motion extremely seriously, but the various statements in the Chamber are contrary to each other. Mr Merkies may say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	So it's up to the Chamber. I think it would be a shame if the Minister put pressure on the PvdA, after all, the key lies a little with that party and would say: lie down in front of this motion. The parties who tabled this motion have made it very clear that they do not want this postponement. By the way, the PvdA has done the same. There's a majority for that. If there is any ambiguity, then this motion is a clear one. Then the Minister should not refer back to the previous motion on the yellow card. Now the motion is in part No. 1415 to. Now everyone can think about it. We must indeed look at what the Chamber says about this. But if this motion is adopted, the Minister will actively argue that it should start in 2019, so that we do not continue to maintain the tax avoidance route?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	I await the judgment of the Chamber. Mr Merkies called in the position of the Labour Party. It's okay. The SP does that a lot and likes it. But it was the groups of DENK and the Christian Union that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	The DENK Group does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	Oh, is it the Group...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	It is the Kuzu/Öztürk Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	The Kuzu/Öztürk Group and the Christian Union Group drew a yellow card and felt that it should be introduced quickly. They just have to explain what the cabinet should do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	We have come to the end of the reply, for which we thank you very much. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
