ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mrs Nel Kester, co-worker of the PvdA Group. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. Dear Gerard, Jasmine and Bastiaan, dear colleagues from Nel, dear members, On Friday 21 April Nel Kester died. Since 2003, Nel has worked as a personal assistant to the PvdA Group. The last period for Astrid Oosenbrug, which is also present today. For many, Nel's death was no surprise. She's been sick for years. Still, her death hit hard. It is a great loss for the family of Nel, her husband, children and grandchildren, for her colleagues and for the MPs with whom she worked daily. I think most of us knew Nel personally or at least recognized him. This certainly applies to those who once sat with her at the meeting table or at the restaurant. She didn't say anything. She wasn't sensitive to hierarchy. She found something and others were allowed to know it. After the elections, she addressed the new leader of the PvdA, Louis Asscher, in a room full of people. She did have some advice for him. As a daughter of a inland waterway shipper, Nel was a water lover. She recently sailed on her brother's ship. With Gerard she made many and sometimes also distant trips with their own boat. What perhaps not everyone knows is that Nel has been politically and socially active in her own municipality of Vlaardingen for years. In the 1980s, she was a city councilman. In addition, she was chairman for seventeen years of Platform Tubesgat, a very active residents' organisation. In the Chamber we met Nel as a passionate company aid provider. There was no other way. Nel was an experienced expert, the type of "twelve cities, thirteen accidents." If the tram made an emergency stop, Nel couldn't just grab a handrail and hit her head against an iron pole. When it stormed, the wind blew her off her bike and Nel lay on the ground. And if a glass door wasn't clearly indicated, Nel ran into it with full force. Consequences: Nel was often bruised or walked with her arm in a sling. As a bhv'er she could draw on her own experience, but fortunately she has also followed a lot of training and training. It made her a valuable addition to the team. Nel enjoyed helping in the Knight's Room on Prince's Day, but her most beautiful moment, she told me, was King Willem-Alexander's inauguration in 2013. They are milestones in our parliamentary history, in which Nel was present and contributed. A week before her death, Nel was still in the Chamber to clear out her study and say goodbye to her colleagues. She was very concerned with the colleagues who lost their jobs within the PvdA Group. She also spoke very openly and soberly about the fact that she was going to die. That was Nel: involved, socially and directly. Someone who wasn't discouraged, but above all tried to enjoy all the beauty there was. For example, her daughter's wedding day, or the trip they made together at the beginning of this year to Bonaire. She had warm memories of that. For no matter how much she enjoyed her work in the Chamber, her greatest happiness was her husband, children and grandchildren. We're gonna miss Nel. On behalf of the Chamber, I wish her family, friends and other relatives much strength in this difficult time. I ask you all to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting so you can offer your condolences to the next of kin.
