ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. What is special is that the Minister of Economic Affairs today wants to answer the questions of 50PLUS on pensions. We had only one question after his letter of 20 May, but after his performance in Buitenhof last Sunday it became more. In that programme, the Minister expressed his view that Dutch pension funds could play a role as a stabilising factor in the turbulent international economy. The Minister added: I will feel very comfortable when the pension funds look first and foremost at returns, but also at returns from the Dutch interest. In his letter of 20 May, the Minister already stated that institutional investors and other wealthy parties could also play a role in serving the interests of all stakeholders and long-term value creation. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. In his opinion, should the Dutch pension system be given three new objectives: a stabilising factor in a turbulent international world, also looking at returns from Dutch interests and interests of all stakeholders in foreign acquisitions? Does the Minister recognise that pension fund management is required to obtain a maximum return on the investment of pension contributions for members and pensioners at the chosen risk profile? In this connection, I refer to Article 18 (1) (a) of the European Pension Directive: "assets are invested in the interests of members and beneficiaries. In the event of potential conflict of interest, the institution or body managing its portfolio shall ensure that the investment is made solely in the interests of the members and beneficiaries." Article 135 (1) (a) of our Pension Act on investment requirements follows that and says: in the interests of the same groups. Does the Minister recognise that it is therefore undesirable to exert pressure from the cabinet on pension funds' governing bodies to consider all kinds of other interests as owners or even as new buyers of shares in takeover bids on Dutch companies? How does the Minister propose that these other interests be taken into account? Is that what he wants with regulations? If so, with what regulations? Finally, how will the Minister prevent new protection measures from leading to the Dutch discount, resulting in lower valuations for Dutch stock exchange companies, multinationals? What will he do if the arsenal of protection structures at Dutch companies, which he wants to expand, turns out to be one of the barriers of institutional investors he wants to investigate and, if possible, remove according to his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the questioner, Mr Van Rooijen, who says that pension funds are required to achieve the highest possible return for their participants. They must do so for the short term and certainly for the long term. Of course, pension funds have a focus on this, such as the relationship of their investments with sustainability, climate change and CO emissions. They take into account the political and social stability of a country. Nuclear energy can now be profitable, but if many countries shut down nuclear power plants prematurely, that is a focus. Trade in arms is also a focus, as they have already shown. Given the main objective, the return that needs to be achieved, and given the various points of interest, I think it is conceivable that pension funds build up a somewhat stronger position in Dutch listed companies. Now of all the money that Dutch pension funds spend in listed companies, 2% goes to Dutch listed companies. The insurers who also manage a large part of our pension funds, as Mr Van Rooijen knows as no other, invest almost 30% of their investments in listed companies in the world in Dutch listed companies. One 2% and the other 30%. I think the Netherlands is not a bad country to invest in shares. According to The Economist last week, our economic growth is currently double that of France, Germany, England and the European countries on average. In the first quarter of this year, Dutch industry achieved a 10% increase in turnover, partly due to higher volume and partly due to higher prices. Mr Van Rooijen knows that the Netherlands is the most competitive economy in Europe. It is not wrong at all if I talk to pension funds to look at the following things: the relationship with insurers, what they do themselves and the various points of attention, where this can also be a point of attention. In doing so, you maintain the importance of a high return. That conversation, without rules, without pressure and without threat, I'd be happy to engage. They have their interests, we have our interests. I'm sure we can talk about that. As far as the letter is concerned, I understand that the Chamber would like to have a separate debate with me on how I feel that takeovers should be dealt with. I would like to be available to have that debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	I welcome the Minister's recognition that there should be maximum return on short-term and long-term pension funds. I understand that he says at the same time that this should not be seen as the only point in the eye, so that this is the main objective but that there are points of interest. The question is simply what can lead to a discussion on issues which the Minister intends to address with the funds. In our view, the European directive remains the guiding principle, which requires that only the interests of the participants should be served. This means that if the Minister were to consider amending the Pension Act, which I do not know, he would be in direct breach of the European directive, which is obviously of a higher order. I share the Minister's view that it is very good that other issues of social interest and the like should be addressed in those talks, which I do not want to keep him from. The comparison between pension funds and insurers is something that I would like to leave behind. However, I would point out that if pension funds invest only 2% in the Netherlands, this is still in proportion to the share of the Dutch economy in the world economy. You cannot expect Dutch pension funds, which invest worldwide, of which only a limited part in Europe and a small part in the Netherlands, to do so differently. They will have to invest on a global scale where maximum returns are achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	Of course, Mr Van Rooijen is right about that. Seen around the world, that 2% is relative. But yes, in that world there are a lot of countries where it is different than here in the Netherlands. Not Venezuela, but the Netherlands is the most competitive economy. Not Venezuela has a 10% growth in industrial production in one quarter compared to the same quarter last year, but the Netherlands. The Netherlands really has a very special, strong economy. The insurers are going to invest 30% in Dutch listed companies and pension funds only 2%. That may well be the basis of a discussion with me, given their objective, given the rules that apply to them and given their various points of interest, to bring this to their attention and to see whether they and our interests are not common. Moreover, the pension funds are there for the members, for those who already have a pension. They also have an interest in maintaining the strong economic structure of the Netherlands. It is about their prosperity, their employment and the employment of their children. This could also be the focus of pension funds, with their long-term policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	I would like to check that percentage of insurers. I will. I do not have the answer to the question of what the yields achieved over the past few years are compared to those of pension funds. That's an interesting test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally, I actually hear you quoting Mr Draghi from two weeks ago. He said that everything about pension funds was very good, because his policy has led to more employment and is therefore also good for the members of pension funds. I find that remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	The current government's policy has led to more prosperity and more employment. It is certainly true what Mr Van Rooijen says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	I am very concerned about Mr Kamp's reply. Why am I so worried? We live in a time when pension funds are under pressure or at least under pressure from the imagery, while there is EUR 1,400 billion in cash. Now it seems a bit like an attempt is being made here to perhaps take a grip on pension funds. That shouldn't be the point. What exactly is the signal that is being put forward here? Is that the signal that, at a time when things are getting a little tricky, we can get a hold of the pension fund? That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have a bit of an aha-erlebnis, because with the honourable representative of the Freedom Party I have also had the opportunity to discuss this subject as Minister for Social Affairs for a few years, just as in another role with Mr Van Rooijen. I think the summary given by the representative of the Party for Freedom is too short. It's not like I want to do a hold of the pension funds. I want to respect pension funds in their maximum return, in their various focus points and in their long-term focus. In this context, I would like to talk to them to see if what they are doing in the light of what the insurers are doing is the best way to get a return on the possibilities offered by the Dutch listed companies that provide funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr De Jong, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have just heard that, if things are a little less economic and companies are not doing so well here and there, EUR 14 billion from pension funds can come out of the pension fund. That money is deferred pay, that's what participants have put in! Surely it can't be that the cabinet doesn't do what is necessary in policy terms, and can just point to those retirement pots? Can it be promised here that no grip will be taken from the pension fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	I have already responded to the latter, but it is a misunderstanding that things are a little less economic. On the contrary, things are going very well economically at the moment. According to The Economist, we have twice as much growth as other countries here in Western Europe. It goes also in industry, which is the basis of many of our economic activities, really very well. If, compared to a year ago, you achieve 10% more sales by higher volume and higher prices, that's very special. So the economy is doing well in the Netherlands and that also gives us the opportunity to discuss all things of common interest with the relevant parties, including the investments by pension funds and institutional investors in general in Dutch listed companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. After the suspension, we will vote.
