ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. If we agree in Europe that companies publish how much tax they pay for each country in which they operate, we can set in motion a trend worldwide. It could be a game changer. It could mean that other parts of the world are also going to believe that they can make those demands. I hope that the Minister shares this ambition and that transparency about tax payments will simply become the norm for multinationals. The proposal is based on the "application or explanation" principle. It is a form of self-regulation. I have too little time here to go into all the details, but I am concerned that this should not be the stake. In fact, you'll be watering down before the negotiations begin. The stakes should be public country-by-country reporting for all countries, with no exceptions. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable for companies to make public how much tax they pay in each of the countries in which they operate;]] [[having noted that the European Commission has made a proposal for public country-by-country reporting, with data from most third countries to be presented not at individual but at aggregated level;]] [[having noted that the motion by Mr Merkies, Mr Grashoff and Mr Schouten, which called on the government to promote, in a European context, public country-by-country reporting in which taxes are to be reported for all countries, was subsequently adopted;]] [[noting that the way in which the Minister of Justice wishes to implement this motion is based on a form of self-regulation;]] [[calls on the Government not to opt for a proposal based on "pass or explain" as part of the European negotiations on public country-by-country reporting, but to take the view that public country-by-country reporting should cover all countries where a company is active,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies, Grashoff and Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The VVD also strongly supports the exchange of information on taxation, but between tax administrations. We are therefore opposed to the proposal to do public country-by-country reporting. We therefore disagree with the SP on that point. In my view, we were concerned not so long ago about the risk of tax data from citizens and businesses being thrown out of business. I want us to do this in a similar way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to express my support for the motion, which I have also signed up for. It is very important that companies open up where they drop their profits. If the Americans are able to enforce a banking secret worldwide, then Europe, as the largest market in the world, can also force the multinationals working in Europe to open up where they drop profits. If that happens, there will be more transparency, which will have a positive impact on tax morals, worldwide. So once again support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Merkies, Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot's motion calls on the government not to opt for a proposal based on 'pass or explain' as part of the European negotiations on public country-by-country reporting, but to take the view that public country-by-country reporting should actually say 'country-by-country reporting', but well, it is not written in the motion, where I say 'pass or explain', by the way, a proper translation of 'comply or explain' should refer to all countries where a company is active. As is well known, the cabinet shares the ambition to achieve a global breakdown of information, but a European, Dutch subsidiary of a parent company located outside the European Union depends entirely on the parent society's willingness to provide information. It's not legally hard to say that if she doesn't have that information, she should be punished for something she can't deliver. So for this reason, I have to discourage the motion. I would also point out to the Court that the stage of the negotiations is now so far advanced and therefore the support for 'pass or explain' is rather broad that, regardless of the Dutch position, it is unlikely to be possible to change anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	After all, the Netherlands is going to make a big deal of effort. That leads to my question as to whether this is the Minister's ambition. The legal argument mentioned by the Minister is not so strong because the same requirement is made when it comes to reporting on countries outside Europe that are blacklisted. So that's what you call subsidiaries of a foreign company. So if it can be done there, it can also be done in relation to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	In the case of tax havens, there is clearly a situation of deliberate tax avoidance. However, if there is no indication of this and a subsidiary that is unable to provide information is still subject to a sanction, I think that morally not right but legally also very vulnerable. I am not opposed to transparency, because otherwise I agree very well with this directive, but my disappointment about the motion lies in the fact that I cannot agree with that part of the motion, in addition to the practical consideration I added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr Merkies, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	I just asked for it in the written round. There appeared to be no legal difference between the two cases, i.e. the blacklist countries and the other countries. If it is legally possible in one case, it is possible in the other case. So it is more a question of desirability. I hope that the Minister will join me in expressing the desire to have total transparency for all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	I am afraid I cannot meet Mr Merkies on this issue. A list of countries that are not cooperative when it comes to complying with decent tax standards has been published. There is then a good basis for asking for openness about the taxes paid there. But that basis is really lacking for other countries, which undoubtedly have a different tax system, but continue to operate in good faith. I'm afraid I'll continue to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	The motion tabled will be put to the vote this evening.
