ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, and the United Kingdom Ambassador, Geoffrey Adams. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. I think that for all of us, we never thought we would have to dwell so often on attacks. Today is the third time in just a few months that we are commemorating a terrible and bloody attack in the United Kingdom. On Saturday seven more were killed and nearly 50 wounded in the heart of London. All those lost lives. It's so cowardly, so pointless, so small to focus hate and violence on innocent civilians. But British society will not be disturbed. The best proof that life goes on, that the United Kingdom does not let itself get small, was the concert that took place in Manchester on Sunday. Very impressive. There was room for grief, but also hope for the future. The image of a policeman, hand in hand dancing in a circle of teenagers, is burned on our retina. One of the artists said, and I quote, "I am bowing down, for despite everything that has happened, smell, feel and see no fear in you." The concert showed how resilient and connected British society is. I have wished the British Parliament a great deal of strength on behalf of all of us. I hope the British are able to hold on to their open, free way of life. They face the hard task of learning to live with all losses. But they're not alone. In our minds, we are with the victims, with the wounded who are currently fighting for their lives, with all those families who have to miss someone and with the whole of British society. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. Yesterday, thousands of Londoners gathered in Potters Fields Park for a wake in memory of the dead and wounded of Saturday night, to be quiet, to support each other but also to share words that enforce respect. "My city must show no fear," someone said. "We're from London, we're proud and strong," another said. And one woman, in my opinion, expressed very clearly and directly the feeling of many people when she said, "We live here, they attack our house." They are reactions that show resistance and resilience after yet another trial. Intransigence against terror and violence. It is the language of courageous people who do not let themselves be silenced and let their way of life be taken away. I admire that. I think we need to work on this. We must continue to make every effort in the fight against terrorism. And we will never reveal our free and democratic society. That's the only right answer, because we live here. Madam President. As I said in my first reaction on Sunday, London mourns and we mourn. Today we commemorate the victims and express our support for the families and the British population. Our hearts and minds are with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. May I ask you to observe a moment of silence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	I will suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you will be given the opportunity to express your condolences to the Ambassador.
