ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the informant in box K and give the floor to Mr Mark Rutte as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by thanking the informant, Edith Schippers, for her work in recent weeks and months and also for this final report with an extremely clear opinion. It has always preferred the VVD and most other parties in this Chamber to create a cabinet with a majority in both Chambers. That preference of the VVD is still unchanged. We still believe that it would be a good idea to have a cabinet with a majority in both chambers of the States-General. However, given the result of the election, there is a complicated task after 75 days to actually achieve such a majority cabinet. At least four parties are required. Many options encounter the objections of at least one party or appear to be complex in substance. I must say, therefore, that I raised an eyebrow last week when I saw how quickly one of the possible combinations for a cabinet with a majority in both chambers of the States General has disappeared from the table. Maybe I should say you've been taken off the table. I'm not looking at anyone in particular. The advice of the informant to make a targeted intermediate step in which the parties can find new willingness to enter into the conversation without prior conditions, strongly supports the VVD. It is important that we all now, in this new phase in which the formation has ended, be open to more than just the preferred coalitions of our own party. The same applies to the VVD. We have seen in the past few months and also today see several possible combinations, including those that are not our natural allies. The country needs to be ruled. So we really need to get to work. The VVD endorses the opinion in the final report that a new informant is appointed with the task of examining the possibility of a cabinet which has sufficient support in the parliament and which includes the possibilities for both a majority cabinet and a minority cabinet in any form. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second term. That was my lyrics. That is usually the time when Mr Asscher is going to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u3	You've got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u4	Does Mr Rutte see any possibility of forming a coalition that he would not describe as "very complicated"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u5	That is a question with so many layers, especially when Mr Asscher comes, that I am going to think about what he means by that. Let me summarize it in my own words, because this is not a question that Sir Humphrey would say you can answer with a simple yes or no. The situation is too complicated for that. I think there are simply no simple outcomes to come up with. That's evident from the last 75 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u6	It was Mr Rutte who asked for openness in a rather critical tone after Pechtold and Segers had indeed ended their conversation quite quickly. Now I ask him if he sees a possibility that isn't very complicated. I think the answer to that is no. If he did see that possibility, he would undoubtedly have outlined it, for he is the foreman of the greatest party. The conclusion is therefore that the resumption of discussions with GroenLinks, initially characterized by Rutte as "very complicated," is a logical possibility to discuss with Tjeenk Willink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u7	The VVD sees four ways to a majority cabinet consisting of four parties. One of these routes runs through the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV... Oh, I thought: Mr Asscher finally has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u9	It's great to hear that. Mr Rutte sees four possibilities which he does not seem to find very complicated. Then I have one follow-up question, because then I need to know more about it. Does the foreman of the VVD consider it conceivable that he should reach agreements on the subject of migration, with any party, which does not constitute a violation of human rights or a violation of the Refugee Convention? Does the VVD leader think that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u10	Yes, of course. The VVD isn't gonna break any treaties or the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u13	Madam President. What a mess! What a mess! A banana republic can learn from it. The report of the informant is not read or understood by a normal person, and that is not her fault. That depends on all the blockages, all the exclusions, all the childish party politics games. Emile doesn't want to go with Mark. Mark doesn't want to go with Geert. Sybrand and a lot of others don't either. Alexander doesn't want to go with Gert-Jan. Jesse doesn't want to hang out with Sybrand or maybe he does. Sybrand wants to go with Emile, but not as prime minister. Louis says he doesn't want to play with anyone, at least for now. What a kindergarten class! What an embarrassment! No wonder Mrs. Schippers is quitting. That's what you get from almost collectively excluding the second party of the Netherlands and almost 1.5 million voters in advance. If you do that with all of you, you're gonna get this mess. If you declare a large part of the outcome of democratic elections out of order, you'll get this. If you come after two and a half months of political games with a PvdA-informer, about from the Middle Ages, that's too embarrassing for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mr Wilders is getting back into his trusted victim role here. He talks about a kindergarten class and nobody, nobody wants to talk to him. No one wants to play with Wilders to stay in his own metaphor. I think you have some nerve to take advantage of horrible misery one day after attacks with rancid tweets by saying that the Prime Minister should just stay away from the memorial, saying that he is responsible for the crime that has been committed there, if you think you can tweet in that way and blame others in this Chamber for being kindergarten. Try dealing normally with other people and other parties for a week and then start complaining again that people do not want to work with you, Mr Wilders!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u15	If you're looking for a servant, you must have Mr. Tjeenk Willink. Then you shouldn't be with me. Indeed, I do not turn my heart into a murder pit: I can hardly hear it anymore when Mr Rutte, in his role as Prime Minister here time and again, after every attack, whether it is after Berlin, whether it is after Nice, whether it is after wherever it is, last time in Manchester the same hollow phrases and does nothing to prevent that. He does nothing to prevent that, doesn't introduce administrative detention, doesn't close the borders, and just lets Syrians come back without locking them up. And yes, if you do that, and unfortunately most of the Heads of Government in Europe do that, not all of them, but most of them do, then you're partly responsible for all the shit that comes out of it. I think that, I'm behind that and I'm not gonna hold back or kiss my ass in the hope that I'm gonna come to the table. Do you know why we deserve a place at the table? Because we here, these twenty heroes, represent 1.5 million people and we have become the second party of the Netherlands. That's why we deserve a place at the table. There can't be another excuse every week. One time it's that we would have run away from the Catshouse. The other time it's that I have to take back "less, less." Now it's a tweet again. A different excuse is made up every week. Grow up, put those games aside, not blockages! There's the PVV: one and a half million people. It's a shame we're not invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u16	I think Mr Wilders has been in the House of Representatives for 20 or 25 years and there is one constant line: it is always someone else's fault. It's always someone else's fault. It is the Moroccans, the Turks, the Muslims, the Tjeenk Willink, Mark Rutte and never himself. And yes, I think democratic parties should be given a chance in the debate. But no, it is absolutely not appropriate to blame others for showing childish behavior when you yourself with rancid tweets, and Mr Wilders knows that those tweets are gross,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u17	It's the truth, it's the truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u18	... the Prime Minister's going to blame him for being responsible. He's from another party and I'll fight him for a horrible crime where necessary. Mr Wilders knows this because he knows that Rutte, I and many others are doing our best every day to keep this country safe. I really don't think it's a good idea to have childish victim behavior. The choice is Wilders. Or you're a party that wants in. Then at least you have a duty to try, for a week, to deal with others normally. Or you could just sit back down with your 20 heroes on socks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u19	Again, my tweet was the truth and nothing but the truth. I'll never keep the truth to myself. I had stayed with Mr Tjeenk Willink for the interruption of the colleague of the Labour Party. At the farewell of the Council of State, Mr. Rutte called him his best servant, or something like that, in my own words. He was the most trustworthy servant there had been. I find it incredible, an informant of the seventh party of the Netherlands, the biggest loser of the elections! Remember, the Labour Party went from 38 to 9 seats. Mr Asscher is now so far behind the Chamber that I can hardly see him from this place. There he is, nine seats, banished somewhere to the back row. And his party is coming with the informant now. Because whatever you say, Minister of State or not, the man is a member of the Labour Party; one of the few still, but well, he is. What kind of crazy is that? It all seems to have been set up before this debate. Everyone yesterday, about half an hour after Mrs Schippers announced that her advice would be to appoint Mr Tjeenk Willink. Everyone, all parties agreed, why do we still have this debate? Apparently, it's all been decided and settled. The Netherlands has major problems with immigration, with integration and with the threat of Islamic terrorism. That threat is bigger than ever. Now there is a party, and I said it two weeks ago, namely the Freedom Party, which was set up to tackle these issues hard and to make the Netherlands safer. If there are people, like the leaders of the VVD and the CDA, who say "I don't want to cooperate with the PVV, but I do want to deal with the problems of immigration and terror," the whole of the Netherlands now knows that they are just fooling around. Because you don't solve those problems with the PvdA, GroenLinks, the SP or D66. With those parties, you're only gonna make it worse. Then the borders will open even further and nothing will be done about terrorism or immigration. The parties such as the VVD and the CDA are therefore not a safer Netherlands, but their own power. They, and not us, put party interests above national interests. That's wrong. I think they should at least try to get the conversation started. That's why I proposed on behalf of the PVV, but that was unfortunately in vain to appoint three informers: one of the VVD, one of the CDA and our own unsavory Fleur Agema on behalf of the PVV. It wasn't meant to be. The choice of a PvdA informant, the biggest loser of the elections, makes it crystal clear that the Dutch electorate is simply offended, that the elite have no respect for the population. We've seen that before. Today, when Prime Minister Rutte's initiative simply pushed through the Ukraine treaty with that insert and the criticism shattered the trash can. What does that have to do with democracy? What does that have to do with democracy? We're seeing it again now, in this process. The second party of the Netherlands is also set aside. These are two examples: the Ukraine Treaty and the PVV. The majority of this House wants nothing to do with democracy and simply does not take the electorate seriously. So it seems as if democracy has also been put in the dirt. That is a very sad observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u20	Inspired by Mr Asscher, who asked this question to Mr Rutte, I would like to ask Mr Wilders: would there be any agreement with Mr Rutte on migration, within the international treaties and within the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u21	I don't think my name's Rutte yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u22	Rutte had already replied, but I would now like the answer from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u23	But you asked Mr Rutte the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u24	I'll address you right. You're always well-served that we address each other nicely. Would there be agreements with Mr Wilders within the international legal order, treaties and our rule of law, including in the area of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u25	Of course, but if you don't try, you'll never find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u26	So if you make proposals on migration and asylum in the coming years, can we always test them against international treaties and our own rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u27	You can test whatever you want. We, too, as PVV, are competent to do so. In fact, it is our role as a constitutionalist to propose a constitutional change. It's okay. If you think that something is contrary to the Constitution, then we cannot agree with it and say that it is not. But if we agree with you for once, then if we can't, then who can? It also proposes to amend the Constitution. Those are very interesting questions, but you won't find out until you, and the rest of you, have the guts to sit down at the table with us. That doesn't mean simply asking the interrupt microphone an easy question and sitting down again, but inviting us. That is what you must do; then you have courage. If you don't, I can't help it, Mr President-in-Office, this is another big fake parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u28	Well, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u29	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the informant for the final report and the work she has done over the last few months. Two and a half months have passed since the elections and the formation is back to square one. All possible options to achieve a stable majority cabinet are one by one lost. After the first reconnaissance negotiations began between VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks. That consultation was probably due to unbridgeable differences in the field of migration. Unfortunately, that breakup was inevitable, because a coalition that does not come out of this theme has no chance of success. Migration is one of the main concerns of the Dutch. In the second exploratory phase it soon appeared that the SP continued to block the VVD. Last week, after my interview with the informant, I called on the SP to at least have a conversation with VVD, CDA and D66, but unfortunately the SP was not prepared to do so. The Labour Party has also made it clear once again that it does not want to participate in a coalition. I regret that, but at the same time I understand that after the electoral defeat suffered by the Labour Party. For example, in that second exploratory round only one unblocked majority variant with four parties remained: VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion. My group was prepared to negotiate in advance without any conditions in this composition. The same applies to the VVD. This option is also, according to the report of the informer, with a positive opinion from Mr Pechtold and Mr Segers presented to their political groups. The outcome of the internal group meetings was that both groups provided scope for an exploratory discussion with the informant. A lot of things have been said about that conversation. The picture shows that D66 made demands and conditions prior to the negotiations, partly on highly sensitive medical-ethical subjects. It would be impossible for the Christian Union to meet that. As far as I am concerned, making such one-sided demands on content in advance is not the way to deal with conscience issues of other parties. A joint discussion between VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion could perhaps have clarified. What exactly was going on and is it repairable? But that proposal was rejected by D66 by return mail. I want to be very clear about that: that's not how you build trust. The course of this formation, if you peel away everything that has happened so far, must lead to growing misunderstandings about politics in The Hague. In the meantime, major issues are crying out for an answer. For example, there is the terrorist threat, which is topical because of the attack in Manchester. So there are our security and our identity. Think of the total failed G7 summit last week in Sicily. In this way, a fair labour market must be achieved. So there is the future of our concern. Meanwhile, a stable majority cabinet seems farther away than ever. In 2012 The Hague politics placed the King outside the formation. In a fit of conceited self-awareness, the Chamber thought: we can solve that ourselves. But now, the second formation since that moment with the first interim break, the Chamber is no longer coming out. As far as the CDA is concerned, a explorer from outside politics is now needed, someone with distance, someone whose political color is not the political color, but the authority and experience are decisive. The informant advises to appoint Herman Tjeenk Willink, former Vice-President of the Council of State and Minister of State, as an informant. The CDA supports that proposal. I hope that he will be able to detach positions so that a stable majority cabinet becomes possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mr Buma mentions the questions of conscience. Conscience issues are important. In addition to a belief, can conscience issues arise from ideals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u31	I wouldn't say that faith can't be an ideal. I do not think it can be that you try to pull others over the table by saying before you start normal negotiations that others should let go or allow something. I don't think I can do that myself, and I wouldn't let it happen to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u32	My question was a different one and was about conscience issues. I am glad that Mr Buma says that conscience issues can be something you get from a faith. But you can also have issues in your life as a humanist or agnostic that affect you very deeply, for example from your own experience or from conversations with people you have noticed that something is an important part of their existence. So you can't say it's one more conscientious than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u33	I do not understand very well what Mr Pechtold means, because he cannot think that he has the right to drag another man over the table about his conscience concerns. If there are different views on this matter; we have been sitting at the table together for two months, then you are talking about it at a negotiating table. My view is that every party in the Lower House must want to have talks on all themes. It cannot be that a party, certainly a party calling itself "liberal", says to another party: hand in only a few things before we start. You cannot do that, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u34	The CDA's adventure with the PVV is still being discussed. I have heard on that occasion that indeed everything happened at the table, such as pulling and throwing glasses. I don't think you sat at the table last week. I don't think you've read anywhere that anyone's been pulled over the table. I will respect your disappointment, but in an adult conversation at a negotiating table with three people, the two who are asked to do so may give their opinion. This is part of liberalism, Christian democracy and many movements in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u35	I don't get it all that well. In the end, we're all trying to form a cabinet. That's the goal. That is what we do with parties with great differences of opinion. The question is whether you're trying to bridge differences or trying to build walls. In my opinion, the idea was to break down walls as often as possible during an exploratory conversation, as has been the case in recent times. If it was the intention to do so, then perhaps that conversation could have run differently or that was the other point I made then a conversation could have taken place with two other parties. The attitude not to want that does not give me the impression that you want to look for something that binds. I find that risky at a time when it is so difficult to build a cabinet in the Netherlands. This is also about conscience and deep feelings. That's what you make sure you give each other some space, that you normally engage in the conversation, that you normally discuss it in a formation, and that you don't put it on the table to wipe it off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u36	The atmosphere is nice in the engine block. We now know a lot about those three hours of Pechtold and Segers, but still very little of the two months of the first attempt. I get the feeling that those sensitive medical-ethical conscience issues weren't discussed in that first attempt. Is that right? Otherwise, we couldn't have had so much fog on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u37	I understand the question, but I'm not gonna talk about those first two months. All I can say is that the CDA just sat at the table with D66 for two months. I'm not going to talk at all about what was discussed at that table. Also about what happened that night of May 24th, we only know the messages from outside. Again, it would have seemed wise to me to talk to four parties. I just said in my speech that this was the last variant left. You may be asking me, but you're out. I can understand that in my own right. You say you're on the sidelines. Then you can say that you want to know everything, but from a position as if you were so-called opposition to the engine block. Firstly, there is no engine block and secondly, this is no time for opposition. We need to build a cabinet together. I think that's the job we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u38	You don't want to say anything about it, but you did say it would never happen to you. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u39	Well, I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u40	In the theoretical case that you would have talked about this, it would not have happened to you that you had been dragged over the table. That's for me to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u41	You don't have to ask me about that. That's not gonna happen anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u42	Exactly. Then one more...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u43	But regardless of whether it happens to a colleague and not to me, I have read in the report that Mr Pechtold and Mr Segers have gone to their political groups with a positive opinion. Then I think it's assumed that there should be a conversation in advance. Mr Segers says in the report that there was no willingness at D66. That's what it says. That shows that the conversation was not as from both sides as it is suggested. That is something I would like to say briefly and specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u44	It's very concrete. A brief second question: is it true that the CDA would consider it conceivable to agree on migration, the great theme of this time, which does not involve a violation of human rights or a modification or termination of the Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u45	You say "not," but the CDA doesn't make any appointments that involve that, if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u46	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u47	Each party is, of course, free to make choices. We do, but Mr Buma is now blaming a number of parties for not wanting to join three parties or not being able to do so. However, he himself does exactly the same. Over the past few weeks, I've been talking the blisters on my tongue to get an exploratory conversation about another variant, in which the CDA could play a leading role. To this day, the CDA refuses to even organise an exploratory conversation. Is Mr Buma going to change that in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u48	I think you're referring to the variant that is now called "Buma and the Seven Dwarves" in our home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u49	There aren't seven of them; there are five of them, but before you know it, there are seven of us. I keep saying what I said at the beginning: be real. If you start with a cabinet, I think it is not only the intention to create a cabinet but to create a cabinet that has some chance of success for four years. Four parties are almost impossible; we have been in prison for two months. So four parties really is the maximum. Why are you bringing this weird variant of yours? Because you do not want to do the normal thing to sit at one table with the VVD. You have to imagine: the SP who doesn't want to sit at a table with the VVD at all. Of course, I'm not going to facilitate that; that's really ridiculous. You just have to come back from that. A quadruple coalition is hard enough as it is. I also said earlier that there are enough interfaces between the SP and the CDA. Those variants of yours? Keep dreaming. First it was one with D66 and Christian Union. Then there came a horde and suddenly it was: with tolerance of 50PLUS. The only profit of the past few weeks is that this variant has come a little closer because the Party for the Animals no longer excludes the CDA. That is the only party that has lifted a blockade in the last two weeks. But with that, this variant is still nonsensical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u50	In fact, Mr Buma is doing exactly what he blames the others. He's trying to get them into the ludicrous by making a comment about it. If the problem is that Mr Buma does not want to be Prime Minister of that cabinet, I would ask Mr Pechtold. He's got just as many seats. He might be willing to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u51	Well, fine. Do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u52	Now let's get this straight. We have now tried a engine block on the right for more than two months. You can't get a party to help you get a majority. You don't want to take the PVV. You don't want another variant. They're not getting out with the Christian Union. You're not getting out with GroenLinks. Then it is high time that other variants of "s' that are not the easiest "s' to be discussed honestly and honestly. These are parties that are closer to each other in terms of content than the SP and the VVD. We want to form a cabinet which is not just a sum of a number of seats. In the coming years, we want to give that cabinet a purpose, a direction and a starting point that is fundamental. On major issues such as income policy, climate and market forces in the public sector, the SP wants to move in a different direction than for the past 30 years under the leadership of the VVD. Then it is absurd to assume that the SP is simply a substitute for that policy that it has always fought against. Then I will indeed go behind the scenes and look for a party that has in its programme of principle what I would like to see a next cabinet radiate. You can joke and try to make fun of people, but I had hoped that the CDA would finally let go of the VVD and have an exploratory discussion on these issues, rather than keep walking away and mocking or blaming all the other parties here. Start with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u53	I must say that this is a warm invitation. Let me start with that. I feel really called to go that way now, but that aside. We're just disagreeing on this. In my view, a cabinet that begins must have some stability in it. This cabinet would be made up of CDA... the only stability is the CDA Prime Minister..................................................................................................................................................................................... You'll forget all that for a while, but that's what happened in the last week. Now this cabinet does not even have a majority with you anymore and must be tolerated by 50PLUS or the Party for Animals. A handsome head that makes it the cabinet you have in your dreams. That's the simple reason I don't believe in it. From a mathematical point of view, thousands of variants are conceivable, but I am only concerned with one goal. The cabinet there must be sustainable, including the number of parties. Otherwise, you just don't have to get started. I don't believe in it at all, and that's why I'm not getting into it. The whole fairy tale of letting go doesn't interest me. It's not gonna work. I think if it started, you'd be glad I said it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u54	Then at least we tried a decent conversation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u55	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u56	...and not with weird freaks here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u57	What do you mean by weird freaks here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u58	And the second is: if you want to have a stable cabinet, it must be a cabinet with parties that are also closer to each other on the basis of basic principles. If you don't even come out with GroenLinks, because you really go through fundamental boundaries, what should a party that is even more left-wing do? That's very unstable. This means either in one party or in the other party unbelievable unrest in the grassroots. You know as well as I do that's not gonna work. Think of the previous period. The cabinet had been working for less than two weeks or it had almost fallen over the income-dependent care premium. And all I'm talking about is those two parties. So I agree with you, and I also respect that you say that I find it very difficult and at the moment I would not start because I want to give priority to other options. I respect that. But let's at least have an exploratory conversation once, if you always fail to help that block to a majority. If we come to the conclusion together that it's not gonna work out, at least we tried. I think we both owe that to our constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u59	This debate is not a question of frenzy or anything, because I think it is about this debate. The fairy tale of Buma and his seven dwarves will remain a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u60	Mr Roemer has another question, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mr Buma tries the same thing, but a large part of those parties try to involve Mr Buma in that right-wing block every time. If we go along with the right-hand block, we are full parties because we bring so many seats. But when we say "we'll talk to a big part of that block, but without the VVD," he's gonna bring in fairy tales. That's what he's really doing to all these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u62	It's funny that you make it so difficult for yourself to put the words "right block" in your head. It's as right as you make it. That's negotiating. I'd say try. If not, we'll try to come up with other variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u63	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u64	Mr. Chairman. There's something left in Mr. Buma's throat. In the fairy tale, Snow got a kiss and shot it loose. Then life continued with the seven dwarfs. About us doing and not doing in the exploratory talks led by the informant, I am happy to answer in this Chamber. We have actively participated in the explorations for a coalition other than that of our first preference, a coalition that can count on a stable majority in both Chambers and is balanced in composition between progressive and conservative. These principles were and are crucial for my group. Unfortunately, SP and PvdA did not support negotiations for a quadruple cabinet with VVD, CDA and D66. The five-party variant with the same groups also encountered blockages. Our creativity in the formation process was not rewarded with an exploratory discussion of coalitions that we proposed. The informant asked me to enter into an exploratory discussion with Mr Segers of the Christian Union. I had previously called the combination VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion undesirable. Why? This combination is not stable with 76 seats in the Lower House and 38 in the First. This cabinet also does not strike the balance between progressive and conservative participants. ChristianUnion and D66 have indeed worked well together in order to put public finances in order, but stable cooperation in a coalition requires more. Both nationally and internationally, we live in uncertain times. The attitude with which both sides deal with this uncertainty differs. That is not an attractive prospect for a cabinet with such a narrow majority that wants to perform with ambition, enthusiasm and political courage. After careful consultation with my group, I went to see if it was in it; well prepared. Mr Segers, quite rightly, did not want to be a break number in the negotiations. We have spoken intimately under the guidance of the informant, with mutual respect and with good personal relations. I did not experience anything else with Mr Segers at the time. Together, we have come to the conclusion that the differences are too great to be bridged in the negotiations. Together we have made that conclusion known to the outside world, each in its own, not misunderstood words. My group has a strong preference for a stable majority cabinet. This is the best way to serve our country. I am confident that, under the guidance of informant Tjeenk Willink, we can take good steps in that direction. Finally, I would like to say a few words to Mrs Schippers and her staff. I thank them for their continued commitment and commitment. From the conversations under her direction, I keep the best memories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u65	This argument raises a question. There has been talk with each other in a very good atmosphere and with respect. Has Mr Pechtold asked Mr Segers to make commitments, movements or other statements which normally take place only in the negotiations on sensitive issues or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u66	It's not an introduction meeting if you join the informant. For that, the time of such an institution is too important and also the weight attached to such a conversation. To my best knowledge, all participants in the conversation were aware in advance that it had to be a conversation on the content. Of course you explore things that you can agree on, but you are also looking for things that can cause problems in an unstable composition of 76 and 38. That is what you have been able to observe in both groups, and you have discussed it for about three hours and exchanged it with the informant for about three and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u67	I understand. You don't just sit there chatting, even though there was raw food available everywhere and you name it. The question is, of course, whether it is justified to make demands to another party, such as commitments and movement. I understand, but perhaps we will hear later that it was otherwise that no conditions were laid down in advance, not even by the Christian Union. The impression was created that D66 did impose forms of conditions in that conversation. That may be, but it would be a good thing to acknowledge that here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u68	In negotiations, one step further, you can make agreements. I don't recognize myself in the words "require" or "commitments." But you do thoroughly explore the things you suspect that make everyone, because of the 76 seats here, responsible for the success of such a cabinet. So you also investigate in depth where the differences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u69	Last time, Mr. Chairman. These differences were, of course, visible. That's why you found it undesirable in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u71	There are differences between parties. That is a problem that needs to be solved in a formation. That's clear. If you have an exploration, it's the question of whether it's justified that you ask for more than exploring those differences. This gives the impression, however, that Mr Segers' remarks give the impression that Mr Pechtold has asked more than just to explore the differences. This is important, because at every stage in the formation that is closed, it has to be clear whether it has really been tried and tested, so I understood Rutte and Buma, or whether it has actually been said in an early stage because of the undesirableness: we are not doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u72	It's been tried. There's been a search. We've been looking for a match. There's been scanned where differences are and could occur. But again, I do not recognize myself in terms of "requires," "hard commitments" or "pre-negotiation."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u73	I read in the report by the informant that Mr Pechtold presented positively on Tuesday 23 May, a week ago, exploring the combination of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion. On what grounds or considerations did he come to this positive opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u74	At a time of great fragmentation and polarisation, I think it is important that a party, a democratic party, a progressive liberal party should be very conscious in dealing with 'who does' and 'who does not'. The picture between the PVV and D66 has been very clear, over and over again for years. We have occasionally cooperated with other parties. So I thought it was very important to bring the entire D66 group along if I were to have such a conversation. Then it makes no sense for you to say to your group: I absolutely don't feel like it, but yes, boys, think of some reasons why not. No, on the weekend when I thought it might go that way, I made the decision myself if I saw possibilities to have such a conversation. And I had also made the agreement with my group to link back before I would move on to real negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u75	Isn't that exactly the lack of clarity that has arisen because of so many contradictory signals from D66? On the one hand: advise positively, on the other hand: it's actually undesirable; so: I don't block it, I recommend positively, but in the end I just don't want it. Wouldn't it be better to choose the Roemer variant and say that clip-and-ready? Where is the transparency, the transparency to which D66 is always so weak?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u76	I think this is extremely transparent and I think the whole process of the last 75 days is extremely transparent. Some people look nostalgic at previous procedures. Yeah, then there's a car behind a fence and less questions are asked. Now I think it's very good that we're being asked through. That stuff here and there is sanding, that sometimes there is a difference of perception, that someone who hasn't been at the table at all, knows how to express very great metaphor, that can and can be done. After consulting my group, I have done a good study and good preparation. I heard I was well prepared. That's right, that's generally me when I start a serious conversation with someone, even in the knowledge that it shouldn't be a conversation for the stage, not a break number, but a substantive conversation. We have had the talk with great respect, I for my part, but I have also met with Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u77	Finally, a week ago Mr Pechtold here took Mr Roemer's measure. He said, "Be prepared to have substantive discussions, and do not say in advance that you will rule that out." Does Mr Pechtold not actually do exactly the same in a much less transparent way by saying: we really need to talk, but at the same time: I do not really want it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u78	And that from the mouth of Mr Van der Staaij. I find this a bit difficult. No, Mr President, you weigh up and you decide the important things that can have a major impact on stability not only at the time of the negotiations but also in the years that follow. I've been very clear before, and I've given it a chance. On the basis of content, I have entered into the discussion in detail, yes, comprehensive content. But it is still free in these democratic parties to come to a conclusion together for the sake of stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the informant very much for the time she has spent looking for workable majorities. I was able to see her at the table for almost two months, and I can say that it was not for her, nor for her staff, who worked so hard to ensure that we would move forward. It's a shame it didn't work out. We have all been able to see that every variant that has been proposed is subject to objections from at least one of the parties concerned. In each variant there is a party that excludes participation in this coalition. The coalition of which GroenLinks was a member, and which we have negotiated, has been subject to a substantive deadlock. Plus, it's wall-locked right now. I therefore think it wise to insert an intermediate phase. We therefore welcome the proposal of the informant to appoint a new informant at this stage. We can also certainly agree with the suggestion to ask Minister of State Herman Tjeenk Willink for this task. He is someone who is above all parties and with his enormous experience may be able to shed a new light on the matter. For us, a cabinet that can count on fruitful cooperation with the States-General remains the preferred one. But if that remains impossible, we can also imagine a minority coalition becoming an option to investigate further. It is up to the new informant to think what steps he will take to get movement in the formation. We wish him every success, and we look forward to it with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u81	I think Mr Klaver deserves a compliment on the way he talks about the attempts at formation. Two weeks ago, he said, "It's not a comma, it's a dot." I think we all hear it's a semicolon. The problem of migration, where there seemed to be a lower level of principle at the time, is now an impasse. We have also heard that CDA and VVD do not demand that human rights treaties or refugee treaties be amended. I am not going to ask Mr Klaver to negotiate here, but I would suggest that in view of the existing situation, the deadlock may be lifted and that it is therefore also time to try to do what should have been done with the arrival of a new informant: an even more serious attempt. If that were the case, I would wish him every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u82	First of all, thank you for the success we are being asked for. I think that all parties in the Chamber, at the stage in which we sit, should be prepared if they are invited by the informant for talks, to see what they can do. I have made it very clear to informer Schippers that it is also stated in the report, which says that we were willing to do everything, but it has broken down into the substance. If there is no room for further content, then it will also be difficult to come to a conclusion, but we are now going to wait and see what the new informant comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u83	Two weeks ago, I left the Chamber anxiously, because there was a risk of a lower moral level being exceeded. In the meantime, there is talk of a substantive impasse on which parties could discuss without prior conditions. Does Mr Klaver agree with me that there is a different tone, a different way of talking about these negotiations than two weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u84	I also looked at the report from two weeks ago and at what exact words were used there and what tone was used there. I also saw that everyone said that it was on a point of substance and we did not see it coming any further. I did not hear anyone throwing the door and saying that there would never be any more conversations, but it was quite clear that it was stuck at a point of substance. I haven't heard any movement in that either from the other parties today, and that movement isn't here with us at the moment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u85	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u86	I also read the report back. We pretend that the word "principal" was not used two weeks ago, but there was a substantive problem. I think there was a lower limit at the time that you didn't want to go under. I found that a big problem; actually a mortgage on the continuation of the formation. If you don't want to tell me what this one is and others should be underneath it, it's gonna stand still, and it has. Now I hear something else, both from Mr Klaver and from his colleagues on the right. I think the conclusion is that a point becomes a semicolon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u87	With the problem that was there then, I said there are limits you shouldn't go over. All parties have principles and boundaries that they do not want to go beyond. That is still the case, as I am listening to it now. In that sense, the situation is the same, but I welcome the tone that all parties are taking at the moment, because I think the wall is jammed and in that we all have a responsibility
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u88	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the informant for the report. The result of the elections did not make it easier to form a cabinet. We've been able to see that for the past few weeks. In itself, that's not weird. The composition of a new cabinet determines the course for the next four years. So these are basic choices that need to be made, starting points and priorities. Forming is more than just counting to 76 seats. My party promised during the campaign a change of course for our country. We want to build a country in which we break with the policy of "every man for himself." That is why we want to opt for community spirit, for a society that is not dictated by the laws of the market, in which human dignity prevails, in which we take commerce out of care and stand up for those who are now left behind. We want a cabinet that invests in equal opportunities for everyone, in education, in care, in law for everyone, in more control over your neighborhood, your work, the economy and big political decisions. I would like to see parties who want to invest in it join forces and work together to find a majority to achieve this. In our view, this is not going to work by joining a party that has been responsible for decades for the whims of the market and a policy of everyone for themselves. Mrs Schippers has had to get rid of a lot of coffee to see that almost all parties exclude one or more parties, do not come together or do not want to talk about options at the moment. The block on the right is looking for a left trailer to enable a majority. They apparently assume that their covenant on the right is sacred and that without this block there is no government. I dare to doubt that. That is why I have stuck my neck out over the last week, not to see who can join this block but to get a majority, find an alternative and break an impasse. As far as I am concerned, this remains worthy of investigation, although I realise that no variant will prove to be simple, especially after today's debate. A new informant may offer new opportunities, a new view and hopefully new combinations that can be explored. We therefore support the proposal to appoint Herman Tjeenk Willink, although today's debate has probably not made it easier for him. I wish the new informant and all of us much wisdom, but at the same time call on the Chamber not to sit on its hands now. Many people are counting on the Chamber not to be blind to what is happening in society even in formation time. Let us therefore continue to see what we can do and invest in in order to solve problems in the near future. Think about the care, the education, the police, the WSW, the own risk, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u90	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u91	Mr. Chairman. The election results make it difficult to form a stable majority cabinet. We knew that on the night of March 15th, and we know that now. Two weeks ago, I concluded the debate with the conclusion that there was a stalemate, due to the very good atmosphere between the four parties, VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks, which had stalled, and the complete lack of openness. The picture was that there was a very fundamental problem or a substantive problem, for which every coalition has to find solutions with Mr Buma. Today we see that what I feared then for Gert-Jan Segers of the Christian Union has also happened. He wasn't just a pause act, but he was a pause act that wasn't even allowed on stage before he had to leave. This means that we are back to the situation of that debate. I support the VVD's proposal and the informant to appoint Herman Tjeenk Willink as an informant, but not because it is a PvdA'er. However, I also think that you should not use that against people. I will advise him to make an attempt to use the space offered by GroenLinks, VVD and CDA in this debate to see whether a more constructive attempt can be made to form a logical but complex coalition after the outcome of 15 March, however difficult that may be. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u92	Mr. Chairman. The present formation is extremely complex. This calls for a new balance between all parties, for new choices that can lead to a new cabinet. In these days, with my sometimes very mixed feelings, I have regularly remembered the farewell letter from colleague Samsom. That letter was read by you, Madam President, when he left the Chamber in December last year. He reminded us in that letter of the spring agreement of 2012, when the PvdA stood by while other parties, including the Christian Union, were working together. He then learned, as he wrote in his letter, what politicians are being asked to do, and that is according to Samsom, and I quote: "The ability to walk together, to accept part of each other equally, to overcome taboos and to break boundaries between coalition and opposition. In order to make the individual electoral interest subordinate to the general interest." Diederik Samsom acknowledged in his letter that he had failed to win people for the strength of the compromise, of working together instead of standing together for life. And yet, with his preliminary last words here in the Lower House, Samsom encouraged us all and therefore also me to keep trying. He wrote, "Keep looking for each other. Keep finding each other. In the interests of the future." His words impressed me in December last year, and I find it difficult to put them next to me now. It's true. In the discussion between Mr Pechtold and I last week, we failed to find each other, and so I did not manage to find each other, but that does not change the will of the Christian Union Group to reach out to others and to make our country better together. That's what I wanted last week, what I still want. I do not believe in hopeless polarisation, but I do believe in hopeful cooperation. After the end of the negotiations with VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks, the attitude of the Christian Union Group has always been one of willingness to negotiate if we were wanted. As far as we are concerned, that would have been a conversation without prior conditions. That's what I told the informant. The objective of last week's exploratory discussion was to determine whether the political will and mutual trust were there to start negotiations. In my perception, that conversation was given the character of pre-negotiation, with a range of substantive and topical subjects coming to my attention. I thought that was premature because we would have to negotiate with four parties and not with two parties. My conclusion was at the end of the intensive conversation that there was insufficient political will to start negotiations with the Christian Union Group. The formation is now entering a next phase. My group thanks the informant for the work she has done and supports her proposal that Mr Tjeenk Willink, as a new informant, should go on a new round, looking at majority and minority variants. The Christian Union Group wishes the new informant much strength and all of us here the courage and will to continue working together, because that is what we owe to our constituents and this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u93	Mr. Chairman. After 75 days of laps around the church, a stalemate has arisen that gives all reason to throw the formation over a different bow. A majority cabinet seems impossible, writes informant Schippers in her report, which reads like the pamphlet of a pessimist. Highest time to finally get the pamphlet of an optimist from 2008, in which Mark Rutte wrote that a green-right course was his greatest ambition. Because only the transcendental interest can break the deadlock. A promising inspiration for this can be found in unconventional and unconfessional thinking. The secular Pierson cabinet, which consisted entirely of liberals, was known as the cabinet of social justice. A liberal cabinet that provided various children's laws, the Health Act, the House Act and the preparation of universal suffrage, including the women's right to vote that celebrates its centenary this year. It was not a cabinet of mere party members. It relied on the former liberals of Free Liberals, the partyless liberal Cort van der Linden and the Liberal Union of Pierson and Goeman Borgesius, among others. As far as we are concerned, the Pierson cabinet, the cabinet of social justice, is a good source of inspiration for a new cabinet. Although the SP has excluded the VVD, it should certainly be open to a review when social justice and green policy are the starting point. Mr Pechtold's wish to form a cabinet that can count on support from the left to the right is also reflected. VVD, D66, GroenLinks, SP and the Party for Animals together account for 85 seats in the Lower House and 38 in the Upper House, apart from possible support of 50PLUS and the Party of Labour. Thus formed, the green-right policy can take shape without the VVD constantly having to look over the right shoulder at the climate deniers in this house, who do not like refugees, but are at the same time co-causers of the greatest refugee flow in history. We cannot imagine that a wise, competent and agile man like Mr Tjeenk Willink will choose a repetition of moves. I will therefore be happy to send him the pamphlet of an optimist by Mr Rutte, along with our plan B, which also states that we also believe that the bio-industry should be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u94	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Schippers. 50PLUS has experienced the conversations with her as extremely constructive. We are convinced that Mr Tjeenk Willink can also make a good contribution to the creation of a new cabinet, but I hope that it will not be used to ensure that the outgoing informant points out the following. 50PLUS calls for a outgoing informant, as at the start of the formation, to convene the chairmen of the political groups to decide who will be appointed and how we will proceed. In recent weeks, I have heard from people at home that they do not understand that many of my colleagues are mutually exclusive, especially if that was not clear before the elections. You will only have voted for one of those now excluded parties; you will feel put out of play as a voter. That is why I would like to know, for example, from Mr Pechtold whether D66 excludes small groups such as 50PLUS. Perhaps in abundance, I would point out that 50PLUS didn't exclude anyone and didn't exclude anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u95	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u96	I am very pleased with that answer. I would like to repeat the statement made by Mr Pechtold last Friday. Then he said for the radio: for D66 it is negotiable to form a stable majority from the seven largest parties, except the PVV. I'm glad he's taking those words back now. In doing so, we will all have to move: without movement, no progress. As far as we are concerned, there will be no new round of talks with all the groups. Let the new informant begin quickly: let him start the conversations and give orders to combinations of fractions. As mentioned earlier, 50PLUS is willing to cooperate constructively. I am pleased that Mrs Schippers' letter now also mentions the possibility of a minority cabinet. We suggested that in our first opinion, should a majority cabinet not succeed in the foreseeable future. By the way, the result offers the possibility to opt for a variant without a majority and without a minority: an engine block with 50PLUS has exactly 75 seats. That is enough to vigorously defend proposals and to be particularly interesting to the opposition, which should then be taken into account more. Finally, 50PLUS supports the appointment of Mr Tjeenk Willink as a new informant. We assume that he will work in his well-known manner with great vigour, steering. Let this information round take as short as possible, because the country is not served by a Chamber like this, with such a huge list of controversial issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u97	Mr. Chairman. Oh, that's beautiful. So soon after the election, and already a cabinet formed! It's possible! You understand I'm talking about Curaçao. But for our country, it's a different picture. For the time being, there is more debate than formed. Precious time is also lost because today every new step in the formation process calls for a parliamentary debate. That's slowing down. After the failure of the talks with GroenLinks, it seemed obvious that a cabinet with the Christian Union would be investigated. That is also what the SGP Group recommended in this scouting round. Unfortunately, it hasn't come to that. As far as we are concerned, it is still worth seriously examining this possibility. I have already exchanged views with Mr Pechtold in the debate on the interruption that I consider the new figure of the junk declaration that D66 introduced not fair and transparent, but rather opaque. The way things were going, it is not only unfair to the Christian Union, but also offensive to the CDA. As if the CDA wants to swallow the weed law, make organ donations possible without permission and join D66's ready-with-life plans! How does the informant look back on this particular course of events and on her own role in this? I have a second question for the informant. Does the conclusion of the previous round remain that a formation of VVD and CDA on the one hand and GroenLinks on the other is not possible? Or is everything open again? As far as we are concerned, there is no reason to question that conclusion from the first stage. Forming is not only phasering but also eliminating, you want to make progress. It seems to the SGP Group to be a wise advice to give a new impetus to the formation process in the given stalemate by handing the stick over to a new informant. We agree with the choice of former viceroy Tjeenk Willink, precisely because the arguments given by Mrs Schippers are not so much about his party color but about his long experience, independent attitude and distance from the present-day party politics. Those are indeed exactly the values that must be generous in the delicate formation process. Let us hope that the wisdom of greyness can find new ways here! I thank informant Schippers for all the reconnaissances and her final report. Not only a new informant, but also a new method at this stage can help. I'll mention targeted combinations of inviting parties. And it can also help to eject the fishing net on the other side of the boat by, for example, having VVD and CDA write a taste of a government program and then see what support can be found for this by other parties. As far as the SGP is concerned, it is good that the possibilities for a majority cabinet are actually being tested first. We have no intention of rewarding easy exclusions or junk statements with the possibility of a minority cabinet. From Curaçao came another tip for a Dutch formation. Not only do you zoom in on the differences, but also look at the similarities in formation conversations. With that recipe, a three-party coalition could be concluded there. It should be possible to do so in the Netherlands with four or five parties. Let me end with a bright spot. It'll take a long time. It's not the first time. The story goes "I quote prof. Van den Berg said in 1956 that W. Drees sr. would have said to a slowly desperate Queen Juliana: "Ah, Your Majesty, in the end there will always be a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the informant for her vain efforts to complete the information round at this stage. By now, 75 days have passed. These are 75 days in which solutions to the workload of teachers in education have not been worked out, solutions to the enormous cost of care and the enormous risk of their own, or solutions to poverty, discrimination, racism and other forms of exclusion. The people in the country want these challenges to be addressed, but politics has been entangled in a persistent impasse for 75 days. Politics permits itself to kisses, tasting and persparating for more than two months, while it is up to politics to offer hope, vision and perspective. That is not what the established political order is about. The reasons given by the gentlemen are not really relevant anymore. They just don't want it. But the country has to move forward. The combination with the Christian Union is blocked. No one wants a combination with the PVV. In a combination with GroenLinks there are substantive blockages. A combination without the VVD is not realistic. So what is being done? A new informant, an informant from PvdA-huis, is proposed to manage the one option Mark Rutte just called the "fourth route." This is the option of the PvdA. But Louis Asscher plays hard to get. Minister Dijsselbloem said yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad: we exclude ourselves; we have often saved the country, but now we are going to save the party. The PvdA now puts the party interest above the national interest. DENK therefore believes that the first step in the new information round should serve to clarify the PvdA. Because that is currently the only workable route for a four-party majority coalition. To make these conversations smooth, DENK fully agrees with the choice for Herman Tjeenk Willink as an informant. He's a man with a wealth of experience who knows how to overcome stalemate. We do wish this to happen quickly, even within a week. Because if it turns out that this possibility is not there, if the PvdA does not want to participate in a coalition with the engine block, then there is actually only one viable option, namely a minority coalition. A minority coalition will eventually lead to a general government agreement, combined with partial agreements based on majorities in both chambers: a labour market agreement, a care agreement, a pension agreement, an anti-discrimination agreement and so on. The engine block must now look constructively for majorities in both Chambers. DENK would then call on the coalition, the engine block, not to stare blindly at only the SGP or the Christian Union. There are so many more parties in the Chamber that can work constructively than just the Conservative Guard. Of course, I am thinking primarily of DENK, but also of the colleagues of the Party for Animals, 50PLUS, GroenLinks and the SP. In this way, DENK hopes that solutions will be found as soon as possible for the problems in our country, because that is what the Netherlands deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u99	Mr. Chairman. On March 15, there were elections. It's May 30th now. So the formation in the back rooms has been going on for two and a half months, with the will and the one not with the one and saying: if you go with him, I don't want to go with you. In panic they have now resorted to cartel cardinal Tjeenk Willink, a man who has been in the back rooms for more than 40 years and who has already been involved in the time of Den Uyl. Is there no one in today's generation of politicians who can catch the cow by the horns? Apparently, that is not the case. That says something about the quality of the people who emerge in the current system. That says something about the political system which apparently has stalled and does not allow enough fresh faces. That's why we need to embrace something new. We need to open the shutters. This is precisely why the Forum for Democracy was set up. We want to shape the necessary upgrade of our political system. After all, we no longer travel by steam trains from 1848 and no longer send our letters by stage. It would be ideal to let the people directly elect the prime minister. But as long as that measure that we have worked out in our electoral programme has not yet been implemented, an intermediate form is possible, namely to appoint a reformer from our own midst, as we as a parliament also appoint a President of the Chamber. All Members of the House will be able to do so and in two blind ballots we will choose someone. We have already suggested that someone like Pieter Ommzigt would be an excellent candidate for this position in our view. In the proposal of the Forum for Democracy, we, as a parliament, are also voting on the major issues that are currently taking place: immigration, the EU, its own risk in the care sector. We are drawing up a broad-based policy. Then there are no controversial statements and no fixed alliances, whereby election promises are sacrificed by exchange. The Prime Minister, appointed by us as a Chamber, then puts together a ministerial team of professionals, who will make policy on the horizon on the basis of these points we have put forward by means of general votes. A knowledgeable cabinet, with practitioners and refreshing solutions! There's no constitutional reason not to do this. Nor is there any practical reason not to do so. Renewal, open shutters, unorthodox solutions; these are exactly the things we need now in the Netherlands and in The Hague. So the question is: why isn't this happening? The answer: the lap carousel of the party cartel. The power parties all have party barons who think they're up for a cabinet position. Moreover, the people on the list who unfortunately did not arrive in the Chamber hope that current Members of Parliament will join the cabinet, so that new Chamber seats will be available via moving forward. Also, these new people from practice would look uninhibited and could encounter past mistakes. After all, they are not involved in cover-up and they may look under the carpets. That puts the cartel's position at risk. In this way, the existing interests of the established policy prevent the necessary renewal. The call from FvD to the rest of the Chamber is simple. Jump over your shadow, stop this charade and opt for a knowledge cabinet instead of a cartel cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u100	This brings us to the end of the first term of a democratically elected parliament, of which Mr Wilders is also a member. I understand that Mrs Schippers can answer directly. I give the floor to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u101	Mr. Chairman. It was my job to investigate majority variants for a next cabinet. I conclude with the conclusion that at the moment any proposed variant encounters objections from at least one of the parties concerned. That is the factual situation that we must highlight, but not accept as an end point. I see this as everyone's first position. After all, we are dealing with an extremely complex political landscape, which requires four parties for a majority coalition. There is a need for a combination of parties capable of overcoming major political contradictions. It's gonna take time. At the same time, by far the majority of group chairmen have indicated a strong preference for a majority coalition. Then there will still have to be movement. My advice therefore focuses on movement. I repeat my optimism that that is possible. We need an intermediate phase. From this point on, we don't end up in one next round on the border. I propose three things at the core to get the movement moving in an intermediate step. First of all, I recommend broadening the mission. A majority coalition prefers almost everyone, but we don't have the luxury of excluding a minority anymore. With the opinion I gave on sufficient support in Parliament, I agree with the formation of 1972-1973. That was the last time it was not possible to find a majority with a maximum of three parties. Secondly, I recommend that we table in combinations of parties without prior conditions. Every conceivable coalition starts with an open conversation. There is no other possibility. Finally, I recommend Minister of State Tjeenk Willink to accompany this next round. With my conclusions and this advice, I conclude my assignment. I would like to thank all the groups for their confidence and all the group chairmen for the intensive discussions, the many cups of coffee they wanted to have with me and the discussions they needed to carry out my mission properly. I thank the staff very much for his efforts. I have received one question, namely from Mr Van der Staaij, on the two-way discussion between the group chairmen of D66 and the Christian Union. That two-conference took place at the request of both parties. Before I started that conversation, I first checked with both parties whether there was a positive mandate for a conversation. A four-conversation has never been possible, not before, not during and not after this two-conversation. And do you know what the situation is? In the final analysis, group chairmen are responsible for the positions they take. Of course I spent three and a half hours trying to get the connection, to find solutions, to make proposals, but I simply couldn't find that space. That space was not in my opinion in any other setting either, at the moment, I say explicitly. Just as well, that space is not currently available to others for various other majority coalitions. Since most of you in the Chamber have a strong preference for majority coalitions, I therefore recommend an intermediate phase in which this can be explored in combinations of parties. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u102	Thank you. I see that there is a need for a second term. I now give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-13.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the final report of informant Schippers and the opinion on the cabinet formation contained therein;]] [[takes on board the content of this opinion;]] [[appoints Herman Tjeenk Willink as an informant with the task of examining, with due regard for this report, the possibility of a cabinet which has sufficient support in the parliament, including both the possibilities of a majority cabinet and a minority cabinet in any form whatsoever, indicating how this can be achieved and reporting on this to the Chamber with an opinion on the progress of the cabinet formation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Mark Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-20]]
