ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	We'll continue the 30-member debate on client stops in community nursing. I would like to welcome the spokesmen and, of course, I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. The client stops in home care. It will happen to you: you need care and you cannot get it from the provider of your choice, with the district nurse you trust. Yesterday, I called an employee of the district nurse's office who works somewhere in an average town in Brabant. She explained with an example how acute the customer stops are at the moment. Even in a situation where a client already has care with a particular provider and that client deteriorates and deteriorates, so that more care is needed, it is no longer possible to get care with the same provider. It's so urgent. We really need to hire a second provider, with a second face on the floor, a second indication and a second time administration. Apart from the fact that it is a real pain for the client that this person gets two faces on the floor, it is also a lot of extra bureaucracy, red tape and money. And then the neighborhood nurse himself. I don't know about the other spokesmen in the Chamber, but we're really being buried under e-mails, phone calls and messages from district nurses who actually all say that the need is to the man. They work overtime, extended shifts, you name it all, but it's simply not too strong. Then we have the messages from the home care providers. The industry organisation came out last month with the message that at the moment one in five home care providers says they have "a silent client stop." They therefore deliberately do not participate in the media, but actually have a client stop. And that's just because they've gone through the "budget ceiling" - I think it's a terrible word - to their health insurance provider and simply can't and will not take the risks of taking care of even more clients. The health insurance provider says: that is for your own account; you may declare it, but it is only a matter of waiting to see if you are actually reimbursed. Of course you can't. On 6 July, the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government to ensure that, in consultation with the NZa, sufficient nursing care is in any case purchased by the health insurers to avoid waiting lists and patient stops. The Secretary of State, also in response to the questions, keeps returning the ball to the health insurance companies in letters. The story is this: if the provider is through his purchased agreements, the health insurance provider has a duty of care. He needs to find an alternative. Before the summer we already had the case of BrabantZorg, which already announced a client stop at that time. I took the test myself. I went to call, in this case, VGZ on behalf of an insured person at VGZ and asked: I would like district care at BrabantZorg, can that be possible? The answer was simply: no, we find it very annoying, but there is a stop; sorry but unfortunately, bye. That was actually simply the message from health insurance company VGZ to me at that time. The fact that the health insurance company would actively seek out another provider did not turn out to be the case in my trial. That's what worries us. Finally. Health insurance companies were already holding hands earlier, while there were 300 million for community care. Especially after closing the nursing homes and moving more and more to home care, we, as SP, believe that neighbourhood care and care are extremely important. So our question to the Secretary of State is simply: when is he going to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	There is a question for you from Mrs Keijzer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Does Mrs. Marijnissen know there's national money left for community care? And after she planted the phone with VGZ, did Mrs Marijnissen also call the Dutch Healthcare Authority? Mrs Marijnissen gave the first example of the fact that, as the situation deteriorates, two nurses must be flown in. I completely agree with her that that's bizarre. But also for that, when I hear such a story from someone, I'm just gonna meet up with the following thing. You know what I do? I'm gonna go after that health insurance company and then I'm gonna call the Dutch Healthcare Authority. 'Cause I think that's the way. Then Mrs Marijnissen can also be of significance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Well, I've done it differently. After that, I went to VGZ myself to ask: how can that be, because you have a duty of care as a health insurance provider? The answer I got was: it doesn't work for us; we have an appointment with a provider, who doesn't want to give the guarantee to take care of people, so then you shouldn't look at us as a health insurance provider. That was that health insurance guy's story. As far as the NZa is concerned, we put it here. We have asked the Secretary of State in motion, which we have submitted together with the CDA, to conduct the direction in consultation with the NZa, because that is where it belongs. But I think we were talking about it last week in the debate on palliative care, too, that picking up the phone for a conversation with the NZa... It's bad enough and annoying enough when you need care, with all the red tape with your insurer, your provider, the indication and what comes your way. We really can't expect people to call the NZa, can we? And I also think that the NZa should be proactive. In the reports, the industry organisation says that one in five home care organisations currently has a silent client stop. Then I wonder where the NZa is, like our watchdog?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	I did not just ask Mrs Marijnissen if she thinks that the patient should call the Healthcare Authority. I agree with her that you can't demand that of people who are suffering from death. But I wonder if you can ask someone from the SP, who would like to be an action party, to stand next to the patient and say not only here that it is wrong, but also to call the Healthcare Authority herself. My experience is that as a Member of Parliament, you can be very practical in meaning. So again, why didn't Mrs Marijnissen contact the Healthcare Authority herself after talking to VGZ? He's not crazy either. He also knows that we are having a debate here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	If it was an incident, you pick up the phone and fix it. Mrs Keijzer is right about that. But the point is that it's about something structural. If the chairman of the industry organisation says that this concerns one in five healthcare providers, then I can keep calling. I think we should discuss this here. I think the Secretary of State should take his direction. That is also the task we have given together here, which I still support, to act together with the NZa. I can call whatever I want and I can solve incidents I want, but I think that such a structural problem belongs on the table and needs a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you very much. We are going to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are more and more people living at home sickly. We've closed down a lot of nursing homes. Nurses are only meant for the people who really can't make it back home. This means that we have to organise care very well at home and that we have a great responsibility to really provide that care at home and to ensure that it is there and that it is of sufficient quality. Now I wanted to start with a positive note. A study by the NIVEL has been presented showing that people are extremely satisfied with the neighbourhood care. I would also like to make that compliment again here, because it is simply fantastic what these people are doing and how satisfied they are with their patients. I think they're really the ambassadors for the care. Let that be said for a moment. As far as the treatment stops are concerned, the reason for this debate. I have once asked healthcare providers and insurers about what is going on, what are the underlying causes of that problem, so that we can really look at the causes of these treatment stops and how we can solve them. I got some things back, starting with the healthcare providers themselves. They indicate that most of them are not contracted, so a very small number of healthcare providers actually get a contract from the health insurance companies. So a lot of healthcare providers have to do it without those contracts. I also agree with what Mrs Marijnissen says, because I also get the impression that the contracted healthcare providers are constantly responding to the influx of patients. They are forced by these low rates. So they are constantly looking to see if they still have room for new patients. That may not be a treatment stop, but that is a sign on the wall that there is not enough broad contract. Finally, I get back from the healthcare providers that there is very little room for renewal. Care providers in the district care department would like to offer care in new ways, so with a good mix of staff, but there is a very classical or conservative contract, so only level 5. But we really want, as the quality framework says that is now being developed, to move towards a good mix of staff. The health insurance companies tell us that the non-contracted care is very expensive for them, so that the patients who are not contracted sometimes cost twice as much and that this care may also be financially risky for insurers. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether the insurers are adequately compensated from the risk settlement system for this district care. Finally, it should be noted that in the insurance sector, control departments are growing and purchasing departments are shrinking. That is exactly what we do not want, because that means that the administrative burden is increasing, while we want insurers to have a conversation with community care. In short, these are really structural problems that we need to solve. It's a little too easy for me to say that the Healthcare Authority should. We will also have to intervene as politicians and move towards policies that work. Finally, my question to the Secretary of State is: should we move towards other forms of care procurement and care contracting? 'Cause with this, I don't think we're gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you very much. Then we will go to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. I repeat what Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ellemeet said: neighborhood care is extremely important and its importance is only increasing. In a society in which people continue to live and live longer and longer, the district nurse is increasingly the cork on which care and coordination of care drives. It is therefore essential that people have access to that care and that it is then of good quality. Mrs Ellemeet pointed out that, fortunately, patients are very satisfied with the quality of the health care in the Netherlands. I'd like to take over the compliment she's handing out to the district nurses. That is quite right. I can imagine it's incredibly annoying for you as a patient when you're confronted with a provider who says, "I can't or can't provide care for you anymore." As a patient, there's nothing you can do about it. If Mrs Marijnissen calls a health insurance provider who then says without a solution that it is true that he is not allowed to deliver, that is quite wrong. The insurer has a duty of care. He should not only have care available, but also help and support to ensure that the patient gets that care. Apart from that, care contracting can be absolutely important, precisely in order to be able to agree on quality of care and not just on tariffs. That process can really gain strength, as the Health and Society Council said this week. I really hope that this process will improve, but steps have been taken last year to provide opportunities to get out of the current impasse. There's been an independent Disputes Committee on Healthcare. There, parties could go there during the contract if they were not satisfied, but they can also go there if there are problems with compliance with the agreed contracts. I have some difficulty with the fact that these problems are again being played through the media, over the back of the patient, because 'there are care stops' and 'it is a disgrace' and 'politics must do something about them'. No, the professional parties, the insurers and the providers themselves who conclude these contracts themselves have the opportunity to resolve them properly in advance and during the contract period. My question to the Secretary of State is: how often has this Committee of Disputes been involved? And if it turns out that's little, why so little? Finally, on the role of the NZa. The VVD is very much in favour of the NZa acting hard if parties do not behave as they should, for example if the duty of care is not fulfilled. Does the NZa do so here and does it do so sufficiently proactively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes, Mr Rutte has often expressed his horror here, and I think I can say this about the fact that such reports end up in the media. He said they don't belong there, they belong on the negotiating table. It's been noted. In my speech, I mentioned the contribution of the chairman of the industry organisation who says: yes, but one in five home care organisations currently has a silent stop to patients. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	If you, as an organization, are confronted with getting out of the contract, it's a real pain in the ass. It graces these organizations that they're not looking for the media. Only I'll call them to find a solution. This applies to the organisations concerned. I say, it's not for nothing, this dispute committee. And by the way, these organisations have of course entered into a contract of their own in advance, and they themselves have a responsibility to come to other forms of contracts. You can't ask the patient to do that. That's what it's for. The insurer has absolutely a responsibility here to do so. My appeal to those parties is mainly to move much sooner and not... Because that insurer sees what is declared and can see which provider is out of his contract. The provider sees how much inflow there is, can see when he or she is out of the contract. Then it doesn't matter to find out at some point as some kind of fact of life: oh, it's gone? No, then you have to do something, then you have to move. I miss that. Not on the back of patients. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that it does not happen in the media, but there too, it seems that the parties are not sufficiently looking for a solution. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	I think that, in this sense, the home care organisations play fair when they indicate around the summer period: listen, we are already at 75% of our purchased agreements, which we are already on. So in the summer they made the call in time, I think according to your proposal: beware, we are about to get out of step and that is going to cause problems. My question to Mr Rutte is as follows: he also knows that in the past year 300 million was not actually spent what was reserved. The money should therefore not be the problem. Then Mr. Rutte must agree with me that those health insurance companies keep their hands on the cut too much when the money comes? That money's budgeted, so it's necessary. And two: we also see in practice that it is necessary, because otherwise it leads to client stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Look, in the end, the question is whether people who needed care also received care and whether that care was the right care and was delivered in time. There were no signs last year that that didn't happen. If you have a budget, the problem probably wasn't so much money, but you do have an organizational problem: who provides this care, how do you do it, how do you divide it? The point remains for me that the moment you, as a provider, see that you are out of your contract, the signal must not be out of your contract or through your industry organisation: ooh, we have to enter patient stops. No, then you have to act, then you have to get to work. You can do that directly with the person you signed that contract with, but that can also be done through the Disputes Committee. They created them themselves. I never hear anything about that and I'm really curious what's going on there. Because there are ways for those parties who conclude these contracts to get out of the impasse, to solve the problems. Where there's no negotiation to be done, there's here. We do not make these agreements; it is here, in the political arena, at most to see from a distance whether the means are being used and whether we can give a boost in the right direction. But if we're gonna negotiate here, if we're gonna be partners here, we're gonna end up in the middle of something, and I don't want to. It doesn't help a patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you very much. Then we go to Mrs. Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really thought we were having the last debate with this Secretary of State last Wednesday. We then shook hands with each other, because I think that this kind of debate, which we have had very often in recent months about client stops, will no longer be resolved by this outgoing Secretary of State. We can all read in the newspaper that next Tuesday the coalition agreement will come, so yes, our hearts are beating with expectation for what will be in it as a solution. Because these debates are always the same: we have a macro budget that the Secretary of State is about, healthcare providers and insurers and ultimately patients who are dealing with stops. And there is always the same answer: yes but, the insurers have a duty of care and we have the NZa, the Dutch Healthcare Authority, as a watchdog. We all know that doesn't work, because we're all standing here every time. So once again, my heart is full of hope for the coalition agreement and the solutions the negotiating parties have been nesting on for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you very much. Then we'll go to Mrs. Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. I think colleagues have rightly repeated to me here how much the appreciation is for all of our district nurses. The report, which has already been mentioned, shows that a large 8 is given to nurses. I really think that's a great achievement. It is good to emphasise that here. Mr. Chairman. The discussion between health insurers and healthcare providers about the price, the purchase of sufficient care in a region and the question of whether or not you will receive health care above the budget ceiling at the end of the year is a long and recurring discussion. It is not uncommon for me to feel that this debate is being held about the backs of vulnerable people. The CDA has already indicated this in several debates, as in the debate on customer stops in the ggz........................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. In the press release of 11 September, Buurtzorg Nederland states that they will set up customer stops in the district care as health insurance companies do not pay the bill for the extra care. This has to do with the fact that in 2016 Neighborhood Care did not receive the full payment of 10 million euros of care provided, resulting in a loss of nearly 5 million members. The CDA concludes from this press release that Neighborhood care is at the budget ceiling in several regions in the Netherlands in September 2017. Is that right? And if so, is Neighborhood Care in conversation with health insurers about increasing the budget for 2017? And what came out of these talks? We all know that national money is not the problem. Is the additional bill of 10 million euros actually not paid in 2016? At least that's what neighborhood care says in a press release mentioned earlier. What exactly has happened in the past? Has there been any discussions between the healthcare provider and the health insurance provider about achieving the budget ceiling at the time of that overrun? 'Cause that's what I think it's supposed to be like. Has there been a transfer of budgets between providers? Has there been any consultation with other providers about taking over care seekers who had reported to Neighborhood care? Or is there something else going on here? I would like a response from the Secretary of State on this particular point. Mr. Chairman. As I have pointed out several times, it just doesn't give a pass to people who are calling, according to the same investigation, that half of the people who need care contacting a health care provider themselves say: no, you can't be with us; good afternoon. It doesn't make sense for a health insurance provider to say that, as Mrs Marijnissen put it. The health insurance company has a duty of care. The healthcare provider is on earth to provide care. As far as I am concerned, they also have an expensive duty to provide joint care for people who depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you very much. Finally, we are going to listen to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lately, there's been a lot of attention to nursing care. That's perfectly right. The result is that extra investment will be made in the coming years. That is good, but at the same time, in some regions, it is increasingly in need of care. Older people stay home longer. This applies to the vast majority of 80-plussers. For them, we must guarantee that they get the good care they need at home. More than 400,000 people are now using community care. This number is expected to increase significantly due to the growing number of 80-plussers. This means that more and more nurses and caregivers are needed and that health insurers and healthcare providers need to anticipate the growing number of clients. Mr. Chairman. This debate has been requested following a message about threatening customer stops. It has also been recalled that we have made good agreements. Healthcare providers and health insurers should meet as soon as possible when the budget ceiling is in sight. In principle, the Dutch Healthcare Authority, the NZa, should not be necessary if different parties assume their responsibilities: good indications by healthcare providers on the one hand and compliance by insurers on the other hand. This will only become more important as demand for community care will continue to increase and budget ceilings may be exceeded earlier. It can then help if health insurers and healthcare providers more often conclude multi-annual contracts. I understand that the Secretary of State refers to the NZa in the event of bottlenecks, but what is he going to do to make sure that health insurers take their duty of care more seriously, so that the NZa is not needed? Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen's motion, which was also supported by my group, called for the direction of the Secretary of State. Of course, he doesn't have to sit on the NZa's chair, but has he done more than put it on paper again how the system works? Has he been to the NZa to discuss the situation? It is indeed not good for conflicts to be fought through the media, as he writes. I call on health insurers and healthcare providers not to let it get this far. But that requires the NZa and the Disputes Commission to do their job, to involve them and to make both parties feel heard by them. My question to the Secretary of State is: will it be done in good time and will it be done in sufficient time? How often does the Disputes Committee get involved? Mr. Chairman. For 2018 extra money is again available for the district care. I have the impression that money is not, or at least not the only, problem. It is also a new way of working. Recently I heard of a nice initiative in Rijswijk. A specialist in elderly medicine from the nursing home is called in in time by general practitioners to advise on what care and support people need in order to stay home longer. General practitioners don't always have the expertise in the house. A specialist can help to speed up the tailor-made care that someone needs. That's good for people and for our system. Is the Secretary of State prepared to raise the profile of this initiative and work across domain boundaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs Ellemeet has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mrs Dik rightly says that money does not seem to be the problem. It is also striking that all parties are actually dissatisfied. Discontent is not only with healthcare providers, but also with health insurers, who say that uncontracted patients sometimes cost twice as much. Does Mrs Dik think it would be interesting to look at other funding models? The current system does not work for any of the parties. Shouldn't we even look at whether population benefit or personal funding can be solutions for this kind of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	I recognise what Mrs Ellemeet is describing, namely that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction among different parties about the contracting process. I'm very willing to see if things have to be different. In my input, for example, I outlined the option of multi-annual contracting. That could be a step. But I would very much like to take a broader look at it rather than come up with solutions now in a 30-member debate. I would also like to hear the health care institutions and the health insurance companies. There are opinions from different bodies. Among other things, the Council for Health and Society has issued an opinion. This has been responded to by other parties who say: it should not be entirely like this. I am willing to look at this, but I am not going to say it in a 30-member debate: sister or so it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has requested a suspension of a few minutes for the preparation of the reply. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we'll move on, so you'll stay close.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the first time to answer the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yet another debate and indeed on an important subject. We have talked about this on a regular basis in recent years, especially at this time of year. If the contract negotiations for the coming year are to come to a conclusion, the parties will naturally be concerned about what this will mean for them. Sometimes, consciously or not, they seek publicity to strengthen their arguments. That is understandable, but at the same time I also agree with those who say that Mr Rutte was the most explicit in this case that as a contracting party you have to be incredibly careful not to do so over the back of patients. Of course, you have to discuss contracts with each other. The fact that these discussions are sometimes very spicy is up to that point, but if that would lead to uncertainty for patients about whether they can still get home care, then that is not good. I think it is also the responsibility of the parties to prevent such discussions from taking place, regardless of the fact that you have to have vigorous discussions about contracting with each other. Home care and neighborhood care just need to be properly arranged. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Ellemeet said that a report from the NIVEL has recently been published, which contains clear signals that the district care system is developing very well and that the satisfaction of people receiving community care is very high. That is of course very good, because home care is an important part of the care. Neighborhood nurses also indicate that they are satisfied, because they have been given more space, and they can take care of a lot of things themselves. They also indicate that it is very busy, that much more time is needed to give real attention and that there is still much to be done when it comes to matching the supply chain with general practitioners and household help. However, let us also establish with each other that perhaps we are doing a little too little about the fact that the development of the district nurse care has taken a good course. It is only a very great compliment to all those district nurses, caregivers, nurses and helpers that in difficult times there is also incredibly good care, which people are generally very satisfied with. I think it's good to establish that here too. Mr. Chairman. Then the buy-in. I have just said that our only restraint fits, especially in such a contract period, but we must ensure that the duty of care is respected. I understand that you can discuss the paper a lot, because it is very well arranged on paper, of course, but how is it done in practice? I think that we should also distinguish between what an individual provider experiences and whether this leads to failure to comply with the duty of care, in the sense that insufficient care is being bought in. That's what the Healthcare Authority always does. If a provider would indicate that too little care has been bought in, the question is whether that is the case with that provider and, if so, whether that means that little care is bought in. In those cases where the Healthcare Authority is proactive, I will come back to this in general and look at what is going on, you often see that there are very tough negotiations with a provider about the buying-in of care or that the budget ceiling has been reached. However, this does not mean that there is not enough healthcare to be bought in in the region, as other providers can still have sufficient space. This is, of course, very unfortunate for the one provider, but for the duty of care and for the question of whether care can still be provided, it is different, because that is the case. We can do it differently. I would like to comment on a question from Mrs Ellemeet. But let us at least continue to make that distinction. Healthcare providers and insurers generally also make arrangements for delivery. You sign a contract, you set a rate, and then you see what happens when more people come than your budget ceiling. There are often contract clauses for this, whereby the insurer agrees that if there are more people than the budget ceiling, no people are refused and that there is a need to be delivered. Here comes, I think, that term "silent patient stops." That's actually a bit crazy term, because you can't agree on the one hand: this is the contract, this is the price, and if more people come, we deliver, and when that happens, say, I don't, but I don't say it and pretend like there's a patient stop without talking about it. That's not good either. You have a contract, there are clauses in it, you have to keep it, and if you are dissatisfied with it or there are circumstances in which you have to talk again or the contract needs to be changed, you have to state that. You either have to do that in advance and make good arrangements about it, or during the ride, if you don't think you can get out. We're in it all the time. We're talking about a problem with a provider. In doing so, we must be careful to say that too little care is being bought in, because that may not have to be the case at all. We should also be careful not to try to do so in a different way through the media, as contracting parties who have to keep each other to a contract. What we must pay attention to is whether the duty of care is maintained and that people simply get the care they are entitled to. This indeed requires a proactive attitude by the Dutch Healthcare Authority, not only afterwards but also in advance. I say it like that a lot. The Healthcare Authority checks whether a health insurance provider's procurement policy is correct. There are purchase documents that health insurance companies have to make at the beginning. The Healthcare Authority will see if the policy is correct. Then they watch during the ride. What is the outcome of the negotiations? Is there enough care being bought in or not? Then they respond to signals. If a healthcare provider says that too little has been delivered or that this is in the media, then the Healthcare Authority is going to ask what is going on. For example, she asked what was going on as a result of the signals given by Neighborhood care and BrabantZorg. The Healthcare Authority has started talking to the parties and has come to the conclusion that there was no question of non-compliance with the duty of care. It is important that the Healthcare Authority responds to this. The Healthcare Authority may also respond to notifications. Mrs Keijzer made a valid point. The question is whether someone who gets home care or community care is thinking about whether or not they are able to make a report at all. It is good that there is that possibility, including for healthcare providers, but I realize that this is not something you can ask of residents, clients or patients. It is important that signals can also come from there. The Healthcare Authority also makes a budget recommendation every year. She looks about halfway through the year at how the budgets are going and whether more or less money is needed. Then we can also keep the finger on the wrist. Finally, the Healthcare Authority evaluates ex post. Mr. Chairman. So I am very much in favour of a proactive Healthcare Authority, not only on paper but also in practice. Reply to notifications but also respond to signals and do not wait until you are asked but also act actively when there is publicity about it. So far, I have noticed that where the Healthcare Authority calls parties together or requests information, it certainly leads to either a solution or a finding that the duty of care is not at risk. Mr. Chairman. I now come to a number of specific comments that have been made. Mrs Marijnissen gave an example from which a bit of the impression might arise, perhaps it is also said that there is no concern. I think she said at his Brabants, "well, bye." Of course, that cannot be the intention. If a healthcare provider is full, either because of the budget or because of insufficient staff, it should be communicated in advance, so that both the health insurance provider and the healthcare provider can say to the client in question: it cannot be done with me, but please contact them, so that the care is taken care quickly. Actually, you're hoping those appointments are already made. Those are also the agreements on, for example, delivery. That is why agreements have been made. How can an additional healthcare provider be deployed if someone deteriorates? Precisely the delivery arrangements that have been made are watching over that. For an existing client, care is continued, even when the budget ceiling is reached. That's exactly what these agreements are for. The budget ceiling should therefore not be a reason for someone who needs more care to switch providers. That doesn't mean that it can't happen that because of the care gravity the staff isn't there. Well, then you'll have to make those appointments. But delivery agreements are precisely aimed at providing care for an existing client, even if the budget ceiling has been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	I have a quick question. In many of these situations where it actually happens that people need more care and still need an additional provider, there is indeed a regular shortage of staff. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there is a link between those budget ceilings that the healthcare providers see coming into view and the cramp that is created by healthcare providers to hire staff, which is needed because the care is needed? In fact, it is so urgent that otherwise other healthcare providers should be emigrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	Not in general terms, because the purpose of these transit agreements is precisely to prevent this. You make that contract in advance. Then you say: this is what we estimate in terms of volume, this is what we agree on in terms of price and we also agree that if heavy care is needed, you will pass on. If that happens, you can't say I won't. Ice and reserving, because if, for example, you don't have the staff to provide that heavier care, you will have to. Then you'll have to think: how often does it happen and is it more common? Maybe you should have more or heavier staff. Then you'll have to make new appointments with your health insurance provider. That's how it's supposed to be. That does not mean that there would be no friction, but those agreements are aimed at preventing that and learning from it again how much you need for the next time. I think there is also a role in this that this is a bit of what we want to do with each other. We said with each other, and I think we exchanged that last week too, so that we should make a bit of simple arrangements, for example one integral price. Sometimes you have a lighter client and sometimes you have a heavier client. Let's set an average price, because if you had to determine that care per patient, you'd be back in all kinds of red tape. The consequence of this is that as a healthcare provider you can also face an increasing demand for care, which threatens to meet your shortage at your rate. Then that's a bit of a part of the deal. If this is going to lead to bottlenecks, it will give you reason to talk to your health insurance provider and at least to learn from it again for the coming period. That is the way it should be, but these agreements are precisely designed to prevent this from happening. The Healthcare Authority has also gone to Neighborhood care and BrabantZorg. Of course, we are talking to the Healthcare Authority to say: pay attention, you wouldn't even... The Healthcare Authority is an independent supervisor and has to define its own policies; that is also very good, but we are, of course, in conversation. This also means that the Healthcare Authority will go for it, even if there are signals in the press or if there are other acute signals. Mrs Ellemeet gave a few examples of what is going on with providers and health insurers. In particular, the issue of uncontracted care came to the fore. Sometimes part of the providers do indeed consciously opt for uncontracted care. Of the healthcare providers participating in the performed monitor, 9% did not have a contract in 2017 for one of the nursing and care services. The reasons for this vary and are not always clear. Sometimes healthcare providers choose for themselves, because they say we'll see. Sometimes they don't want to be obstructed by contracts and sometimes they don't want to have anything to do with an insurer. Sometimes it's a new organization that works withzzp'ers. That is why parties in the district care have agreed to explore the exact background and motives of this uncontracted care before the contract in 2018, because insurers are indeed wondering whether or not the requirements they make are being met and the healthcare providers say: then I am a bit rid of those insurers. Of both motives, we say that we do not want them. So I think it is important that we investigate this further. That is what we are going to do in the coming period. Mrs Ellemeet's general point was: should you not think about other forms of care procurement and care contracting? Actually, we're a little on that road. I refer to the whole discussion on whether we should not work with one integral tariff. Of course, that helps a lot, because you will be out of administration, but you can see that you will then have a discussion about whether it is sufficient for all different forms of care. That's what we're looking at right now. As you know, in the Long-Term Care Act, we are conducting an experiment with personal funding. That is actually a special form of one rate, because you say that anyone who meets the quality requirements can provide care; we do not make volume agreements in advance and we pay one price when people choose a particular healthcare provider. We are now looking at the pros and cons of that. One advantage is that of course you can respond much more flexibly to the demand for a particular healthcare provider who apparently likes people. The disadvantage is that all other health care institutions have less prior certainty about their budget. That also has a number of consequences. But in any case, I think it is good to continue to think about whether there are any new forms of financing and care buying that could further remedy this type of problem. For my part, therefore, there is a willingness to discuss this with the health insurance companies. Are health insurers sufficiently compensated by the risk settlement? To my liking, both the characteristic age and the characteristic gender. Older people, for example, receive a much higher amount of compensation by default. In addition, there is the specific characteristic of "s' which is not so specific that the best predictor for community care in a given year is the community care provided in the previous year. If someone has had community care in the previous year and the costs are higher, an additional supplement may be provided. This can range from €2,000 to €30,000. For 2018, the amount for the toughest patients with intensive child care can even reach €50,000 per patient. I therefore believe that there are sufficient points of departure in this settlement to prevent this type of problem. I agree with Mr Rutte that we must be incredibly careful to have discussions here or in the media that should actually be held between contracting parties. Adult parties should do that to each other. He is right that the Disputes Committee, which was called on at the request of the parties not so long ago, can also pre-contract to see if there are any problems. The committee can also look mid-term if there are problems. No reports have been made to the Disputes Committee. That is special, because apparently the parties have not notified problems that are reported in the media to the Disputes Committee. They obviously do not want to refer that dispute to the Arbitration Committee. That is an observation. It's a good thing the committee's here. Maybe it's already helping her to be there, because it makes the parties realize that if they're going to have some problems figured out, they're going to have to be able to solve them themselves in the end. That would be a nice preventive effect. So far, the parties have not engaged the Disputes Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	It was a question from Mr Rutte, but this leads to questions from Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dik-Faber. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	Then Mr Rutte will be able to say whether I am also baffling him, because this is really not good news. There is so much that does not go according to all the parties involved. Have the providers and insurers been properly informed about the Disputes Committee? Is there enough information? Where's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	The Disputes Committee was established at the request of the parties themselves. I can assume that the interbranch organisations pay sufficient attention to it and tell their members that they can go there if they have problems. At least that seems to me to be the case. It's really something of parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	I can imagine that not all healthcare providers are aware of this initiative. There are always a few frontrunners. Is this something else that the Secretary of State can also play a role in? It was brought about on the initiative of the field parties themselves, but I can imagine that we all benefit from it being used as well. So can the Secretary of State still play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	In the discussions I am conducting and which will lead my successor or successor, I think it would be good to talk to the parties about how things are going. For our part, it is said: explain why the Committee on Disputes is not being used. By the way, I do have an explanation. We have complicated contract negotiations every year around this time. Each party is determining its position. Then you have to consider whether you are so dissatisfied with the process that you want someone else to take a look at it. But you can also consider that although you are struggling with each other, that you have to come to contracts and that this is always exciting, you also have to be able to get out with each other. I think it's good that the committee is here. The fact that no cases have been reported yet doesn't mean it's all wrong. It is also a signal that parties at least initially think they should come out of it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	I am also extremely surprised by the news that the Disputes Committee has not yet been involved. We have received a wonderful letter from the Secretary of State in which he fully outlines how the process of contracting should proceed. This includes the role of health insurers, healthcare providers, the NZa and the Disputes Committee. On paper it looks fantastic, but in practice it is not as we have thought of each other. I see from the Secretary of State that he would like to comment on this, so I would like to hear his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	Let us also be a little careful to assume that it means that the healthcare shopping in our country would not be good for care if some things were to appear in the media, which I note are or are not real problems, but well, those things are there. Last year we found that there was enough money left. The Healthcare Authority found that the duty of care could be achieved. Research by NIVEL shows that district nurses and people are very satisfied with the community care. Let's not say, if there are a few cases, that it's not good with the neighborhood care. I note that we have a process in which the purchase is discussed in advance. We have a proactive Healthcare Authority. We have a dispute committee, which you can also go to, but which apparently has not yet been used. The Healthcare Authority will go in as soon as there are reports or signals from parties who say it is not going well. We are receiving reports from the Healthcare Authority on whether there has been sufficient buy-in, on the budget and whether there should be a budget, which has not been necessary so far. You could also say with each other: in general things are actually quite nice. Of course there are discussions and incidents with the contracts. We also have measures and instruments to deal with them. But I wouldn't want to come to the conclusion that things are bad right now. In fact, if you look at the whole process, I think that from year to year, both in terms of process and content, the NIVEL research is actually going rather well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	I do not wish to suggest that the district care system in our country is in a bad way. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	But the Secretary of State has sent a letter to the Chamber in which he outlines how the process of contracting is going. In doing so, he states that the Disputes Committee is there. For me, then, it is a great surprise that the Disputes Committee has not been involved. At the same time, I see that contracting parties seek out the media. I can't rhyme those two. Why do situations come up in the media and not in the Disputes Committee? Is there a threshold in the Disputes Committee? Is there insufficient awareness of the Disputes Committee? Mrs Ellemeet has already asked that question. The Committee on Disputes is a good thing, but it must be found. The Committee on Disputes must be able to get to work, because if we continue to receive messages via the media, something will go wrong somewhere in the process between the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	There is a great willingness on my part to continue to bring to the attention of the dispute committee, where it is in my power to bring to the attention of the parties, and to say: use it if necessary. An evaluation will take place soon, early 2018, in which these questions can also be addressed. We can send it to the chamber. But let's also take a look at everyday reality. If parties are negotiating with each other, with strong interests at stake and they negotiate the price, quantity and quality, it will and will continue to be the case that some parties seek out the media to clarify their position, without believing that it is already so high that they have to submit their dispute to the Disputes Committee. That is perhaps only good, because that means that parties realise that there is a need for vigorous discussions. That's what I'm supposed to do. The fact that these are sometimes conducted in the media is not good for me at the moment when this leads to uncertainty for patients and clients, but that does not mean that everything is clearly disputeable. But I will certainly take this point with me in the evaluation of the Disputes Committee that will take place in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	I have already addressed the proactive Healthcare Authority in answering the other questions. I agree with Mrs Agema's remark that the new coalition should consider the adjustments to be made in the light of all the comments made. I am perhaps as curious as Mrs Agema what comes out of it. This could perhaps lead to further debates in the Chamber. I thought I had already answered some of Mrs Keijzer's questions. She asked how it went with Neighborhood Care in 2016. I do not know exactly, but it has indeed led to further discussions between the Neighborhood and the insurers, and also to the adjustment of the budgets. You could even say that's kind of how it's supposed to be. Except for part of it went through the media. There has indeed been a discussion on whether there have been more clients than had been foreseen and what this means for the adjustment of budgets. This has led to a more detailed determination of that amount, probably not entirely to the satisfaction of Neighborhood care and not entirely to the satisfaction of health insurers. However, a further agreement has been made on the budgets following the signals that have been sent. The most important thing is that we do not look at each healthcare provider, but that we check whether sufficient care has been purchased, so that all people who are entitled to community care who have also received it, whether or not with a provider who is at a budget ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	I have an informative question. How is that supposed to go into practice? My picture at the case of Neighborhood care is a bit that that organisation simply passed on to district nursing and found at the end of the year: "boys, we are over the budget ceiling, dear health insurance companies, can we get that compensated?" Is that so and if so, is it really purely informative? Wouldn't it be better if you, as a healthcare provider at some point in the summer holidays, found that you are already at 75% of your budget, that that is not going well and then call the health insurance provider in advance to prevent you from remaining with a deficit of almost 5 million at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think Mrs Keijzer is right about that. I believe that there is also a great responsibility on the part of healthcare providers not to wait until that problem arises, but to make arrangements in advance. It is, of course, an assessment of the most effective way of dealing with the issue. One party will say: 'I see things coming, I'm going to question them, I'm trying to make agreements about them'. The other party will say, "I'm going to talk about it if that problem is visible." That is not my preference; I agree with Mrs Keijzer. You could assess whether things are going well or not in the course of the year and try to make agreements. Then you can always say it's not going well. So I actually agree with Mrs Keijzer. Finally, I come to Mrs Dik-Faber, who has asked a number of questions about the direction. If you see the list of what we have all done in the framework conditions, you can say that we have done the best we can to ensure that this process is managed properly. I would like to mention a proactive Healthcare Authority, on which I have previously informed you, the investigation of unselected care, the examination of the costs of intensive child care, the setting-up of the Disputes Commission, additional money for the care of the district, the adjustment of the settlement system for expensive care, the full rate, the joint consultation on the state of affairs with healthcare providers, the health insurance companies and the department to look at the interim progress, the interim advice to the Healthcare Authority on the budget to see if there is too little or too much money needed. I believe that the measures I have taken to monitor this process with the management group are more than enough. I think that this is very important to ensure that parties now take that responsibility and, by the way, they are also taking it. It is also important that we monitor with each other whether, firstly, sufficient care is bought in so that everyone gets the care they are entitled to and, secondly, whether there are sufficient resources available and there are signs that at least the money is not the problem. That was the case last year, and the first signals are also this year that this should not cause problems. I am positive about the specific demand for the Rijswijk initiative, with the involvement of the specialists. I think it is very good that people can continue to receive appropriate care at home for as long as possible. I also think that the deployment of the SO in the first line is a good example on this point. On Mrs Dik-Faber's question, do I wish to promote these initiatives and bring them to the attention of the parties? Mr. Chairman. How can we further ensure that health insurance companies act sooner if budget ceilings come into sight? I have already replied a little bit, but I am going to go into it in more detail. The agreement made very often between healthcare providers and health insurers is that 80% of budget exhaustion is subject to further consultation between healthcare provider and health insurance provider. That is a bit because of the suggestion made by Mrs Keijzer, namely: why don't you sit down with each other earlier, not if the budget is exceeded, but if that is likely to be exceeded, if at least one of the parties feels that way. That means you can meet up with each other then. Whatever can play is more presumably a provider can start to think: if I have to say that one can no longer go to me, I may lose clients. Such a provider might be a little hesitant to report that she's getting full. And yet it is very important to report this, precisely in the interest of the patients and clients who need this care so much. Mr. Chairman. I thought I answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you very much. Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. I see that this is the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can be very brief, because Mrs Agema is of course right that it is a complicated debate in possibly the last week of this Secretary of State. Of course, we are also looking forward to the new plans. However, a brief response to what has been discussed here in the first term. The SP believes that it is too easy to point out to healthcare providers who say "we put it down in the media." First of all, because I don't think it is. I have already pointed out that the industry organisation says that one in five healthcare providers currently have a quiet stop. Secondly, because I think it is the task to identify problems but also to discuss them here and to find a solution. Certainly the report that has been published today shows how extremely important district nursing is and how fantastic good work is being done there. But if, in my view, healthcare providers in the summer period say, "Wait a minute, we are already through 75% of our commitments, so pay attention', I think that we should talk about this here and that a solution should be found. It is important that they ring the bell well in time when that is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Ellemeet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more people stay at home longer, even if they need care;]] [[noting that community care plays an important role in providing good care at home;]] [[Whereas there is dissatisfaction among care providers of community care with regard to the current contracting;]] [[Whereas there is dissatisfaction among health insurers about the high cost per client under uncontracted care;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of other funding models for community care that promote efficiency and quality of care, including the possibilities of subsequent funding and population benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-869]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	Then we go to Mr. Arno Rutte of the VVD. Go ahead. Oh, I understand now that you're preparing another motion. Then I suggest that we give Mrs Agema the floor first. I note that she does not need a second term. I see that this also applies to Mrs Keijzer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber. Then you may sit down again, Mr Rutte, and we will come back to you afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u50	I would, of course, like to help Mr Rutte if that is the case. Mr. Chairman. We had a good exchange of views. I also use this second deadline to emphasise how important it is for healthcare providers to make a timely call to the health insurance companies when the ceiling is in sight, so that healthcare providers and health insurers can come out together. Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you of what the Secretary of State said about the Disputes Committee. It has just been said to me from the point of view of practice that it can be difficult as a healthcare provider to bring in that dispute committee, because you do not always get the right deal with the health insurance provider. As a healthcare provider, you do not come out with your health insurance provider; you report to the Disputes Committee. What does that do in the relationship between healthcare provider and health insurance provider? Isn't that relationship going to be unnecessarily under pressure? Does the Secretary of State still want to take a look at that? I would like to thank him for the commitment to raise the profile of cross-domain work, including the first-line specialist in the field of elder medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u51	Thank you very much. Finally, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, we shall go to Mr Rutte in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr. Chairman. Saved by the bell, let's say. In the first term, I specifically asked the Secretary of State for the Independent Disputes Committee on Health Contracting, precisely because it is so important for the parties to resolve their conflicts among themselves, precisely because it is so important for patients to be able to trust that there is good care and not to feel that they cannot or cannot go to suppliers and that they will then be heard: solve it yourself. That is why we have this Committee on Disputes, which is not just maintaining it. Especially on the basis of the notice that the Disputes Committee has been called in zero times, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the last year the independent Disputes Committee on Health Contracting has been engaged zero times;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that disputes concerning contracts between district health care providers and health insurers should be resolved in good time and that the Disputes Committee should play a role in this;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with local health care providers and health insurers to bring to the attention of the Independent Disputes Committee on Health Contracting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-870]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u53	The motion seems like a huge open door, but it seems necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u54	This brings us to the end of the Court's second term contribution. I see the Secretary of State is able to respond immediately. We are still waiting for Mr Rutte's motion to be distributed. I see a sprint being drawn and I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen is, of course, right: if there are problems or if we suspect problems, we should be able to discuss them here. What I wanted to say is: let health insurers and healthcare providers be careful not to bring into the media the problems they actually have to solve with each other, making patients and residents unnecessarily insecure. Mrs Marijnissen is right and I trust she will continue to do so in the future: if there are problems or are suspected, they can and must be discussed loudly and clearly in this Chamber. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked if the relationship would be compromised if you did. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is van tweeën één. Óf partijen zeggen tegen elkaar: we hebben behoefte aan zo'n geschillencommissie om er, als het nodig is, zaken aan voor te leggen.]] Then you set up such a commission and use it for this purpose. Then you're gonna have to step over that. You want a commission like that or you don't. This is without prejudice to the fact that you will notice in my explanation of Mr Rutte's motion I believe that we should at least ensure that knowledge and skills are there. That shouldn't be a problem. Then there are the motions, first of all those in part No. 869 on the exploration of financing models. Let me give you some context. At the moment, the Healthcare Authority and the field parties are examining what the development of the funding of the community care can be. That's what parties have agreed on. This knowledge is used in a possible new funding in a pack of 2019, 2020. In addition, there are a number of experiments going on, not only in the Long-Term Care Act, but also on a fixed amount per patient at Meander and at Fundis Vierstroom. It's very educational to look at that. Knowledge comes from that context as well. I would like to associate that with this motion. If I may read the motion in such a way that we look at what is already going on in this area and see if that could lead to a different way of financing and funding, using existing knowledge, then I leave it to the Chamber to judge. I don't think I'm getting in the way of the new coalition with that. Then the motion to part No. 870, which calls on the Independent Disputes Commission to be brought to the fore. It's a matter of parties. You are actually asking me to ask the parties who have asked for a dispute committee to do so. Despite the fact that it is and remains a matter of parties, I am happy to enter into that conversation. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you very much. Then we have come to the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u57	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. If this has been the last debate with this Secretary of State, I am sure that I can thank him on behalf of all my fellow Members for his pleasant cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr President, I do not believe it until it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-5.u59	That's why I'm putting it on parole. I shall now suspend the sitting until 12.45 p.m. Then the Chamber begins its work.
