ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report by the Ruys Committee on the operation of the central works council in the police. I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and give Mr Van Dam the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is appropriate at the start of this debate to note that one of the main players in this dossier, the former Chief Constable Gerard Bouman, has died. That is the reason for saying again, at least on behalf of the CDA Group, what appreciation and respect there is for the responsibility he has shown to take on the formation of the national police. At the same time, I knew him personally, and I know that he himself would like us to be clear and honest about what went wrong, provided that we do so in the context in which he had to work at the time. Let us be clear: when we talk about the way in which the central works council has been facilitated, how supervision of the central works council's finances and the handling of the chairman has not gone well. The CDA endorses the conclusions of the Ruys Committee on this matter. There is no question of bribery, but the report did not, in my view, take away the impression that the Chief Constable had too far used his relationship with the chairman of the cor to achieve the formation of the national police force. Of course, once again, we must bear in mind the context, the enormous task and also the enormous problems experienced by the former Chief of Staff. But that is without prejudice to the fact that citizens in the Netherlands and the policemen in the Netherlands could have trusted that putting the financial flows around the cor in order and keeping them in order would have been arranged. Because that is what this is about: the prestige of the Dutch police. In itself, the national police are not in question for the CDA, but forever this integrity will remain on the formation of the corps. That's something that bothers minister, MPs, chiefs of police, exempt presidents of the Cor and all kinds of other official people a lot less than the cop on the street right now, the detective who's now hearing a suspect and the neighborhood agent who's now in the middle of a youth group. The CDA thanked the Ruys Committee for its research and endorsed the conclusions of the report. The image remains of a chief of police and a chairman of the corps who were so close to each other that we can ask ourselves whether there was still sufficient professional distance and contradiction between them. My group is pleased that the current Chief Constable has acted adequately by launching a fact-finding exercise, by taking disciplinary measures and by reporting to the Public Prosecutor. The fact that there is a criminal investigation against the former President does not lead me to say much about this at the moment, but it is easy to guess how my group thinks about it. Is it still from this time when people will be fully exempted, over a period of years, to do work in an or, not only with the police, but also elsewhere? It seems to be a kind of professional army of participatory workers who easily dislocate themselves from the workplace. But are the former chief of police and the former chairman the only ones allowed to look in the mirror? Are there others who would be allowed to ask themselves what their role and involvement was? How could the Cor play such an important role in the establishment of the national police force? Wouldn't it be good if the police unions thought for a week and considered what their attitude and perhaps now contributed to this affair? Was it about the importance of their members and the quality of the Dutch police or was it just about the power? As far as I am concerned, anyone who could look in the mirror is the Minister of Security and Justice. We cannot ignore the pressure of time, the financial pressure, the political pressure put on the Chief of Police and others by the Ministers of Security and Justice to stamp out the national police. Although the Ruys Committee concludes that the successor ministers were not aware of the irregularities, the investigation clearly shows that the Ministry was aware that it was an administrative mess. How does this VVD minister judge that in retrospective? The CDA Group believes that the formation of the national police has taken irresponsible risks in terms of pace, which come on behalf of the rulers of V and J. It would fit this minister as the final responsible for the police and as a government official responsible for the policy on V and J in recent years to acknowledge that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Following ongoing signals about the waste of money by the central works council (cor) and various investigations, the Ruys Committee was set up. My group thanks the committee for its research, as I said yesterday. The release of the report has been postponed due to the death of former Chief Bouman. From this point on, on behalf of my group, I would also like to wish the family a great deal of strength in dealing with the loss. But we need to talk about the report and, of course, the history. The conclusions drawn by the Ruys Committee are firm. There was no well-functioning system of budget and accountability. The monitoring of exorbitant expenditure was inadequate. The annual budget was overwritten each time, but there was no intervention. Providing a personal loan was unprofessional and inappropriate. The increase in salaries was also unacceptable. Shortly and well, there has been irresponsible handling of public money, and the impression of favor has been created. But, Mr President, the committee also concludes that no evidence has been found that this has had an impact on the actual course of the main consultative processes or that the Cor would be favourable in order to prevent the formation of a national police force from being obstructed. I would like to name a part of the report which I believe has been underexposed. From the list of facts on pages 24 to 31 you can also say that there is an opposite picture. On page 48 it says literally: "The Cor used the initial negative advice as a strategic tool to get assurances from the Chief Constable about the involvement of the Cor in the further development of the plans." You must be popularly wondering who kept who in the pliers. The impression of favor has been aroused, but there is no evidence. There was also no evidence that successive security and justice ministers were aware of the specific situation surrounding the cor's finances. Warnings have indeed been given to the Minister, but improving administrative organisation and financial control was not a priority. My group believes that a criticism can be made of former Minister Opstelten on this point. He started a big ambitious project, and then you keep your finger on the wrist. This passive attitude is also in stark contrast with the active addition of top priorities to the whole process. As far as my group is concerned, it is also clear that the national police have been under excessive pressure of time. I told you, it was a prestige project by Minister Opstelten and failure was not an option. Let there be no misunderstanding: there has also been a substantial addition to it. Let there be no misunderstanding: this is no justification for everything that has happened. I would like to mention two major points of concern which are linked to that unhindered pattern of spending, particularly by the chairman of the Cor. The cor could go unimpeded, while the ordinary agents on the street had to fight for a new collective agreement and a small salary increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	I would like to ask Mrs Helder a question about the pace. She now says: it had to be under too high a time pressure. But you also know that the decision on the pace was taken at the time of Rutte I. I do not remember, and I have not been able to find it in the documents, that your group, which tolerated that cabinet, said: 'God, should it all be at this rate?' I think you really wanted it to go very quickly at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	I am glad that Mrs Van Engelshoven has looked very hard, but she did not look very well, because I did say so. Her former colleague Berndsen could confirm that. There were all sorts of reports, one of them from the VenJ Inspection. It literally said: "The project is starting to look a bit like a moving car whose tires need to be replaced without reducing the pace." That's when I said get rid of a top priority. Then I immediately said: I would not know which one, because then I will interfere with the journey. The reason we were there then and why all those reports were there was that it was already found that it could not go on like this. I did not need to be pinned down on the date in general consultation in 2013; I do know that it was said somewhere in November: take off a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes, but rather the PVV Group agreed that the formation of the national police in 2012 should be a fact first of 2012 and not of 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	That's what all the groups thought. So I really like having that question, and I am very happy to answer it, but if Mrs Van Engelshoven was honest, she would have asked my predecessor too. He was also a partner in the Rutte I government. We were tolerating partners. I'm not running away from that responsibility. I will not tell you the end of my speech, but then you will know how I still stand today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	I had stayed with the question of what we can do here today with the conclusions of the report and how we can contribute to the functioning of the national police. I consider the interests of the workplace to be the most important. I do not want to rule out parliamentary scrutiny in advance. That does justice to the feelings in the workplace. Questions can be answered and action can be requested from the Minister, such as better supervision and accountability of the expenditure of the cor and cultural change in the police. But let us be honest: these are all measures that the chief of police must take, not politics. In conclusion, therefore, I cannot take a final position and await the Minister's answers. One thing is clear to me: the national police are not a failure. I'll just mention a quote that we read in the media. Reverting it is also a bad idea. Good steps have been taken. I'm still in favour of that. I hope we can add one today. As far as I'm concerned, the goal is to ensure that the cops on the street can be proud of their organization again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now turn to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Last Tuesday, on Prinsjesdag, in The Hague, there were again a lot of agents on their feet for a safe The Hague, so that we could celebrate a beautiful Prinsjesdag. But with all these events around the central works council it is unfortunately that agent on the street who not only on Prinsjesdag, but every day again suffers the most from this. The cop on the street is looked at by the citizen that at the top he has handled money so excessively, while he himself often goes out on the street for a modest salary. I too feel some discomfort in this debate after this summer's sad report on the death of the former Chief Constable, Mr Bouman. This discussion will not make it easier for his next of kin to deal with that loss. But at the same time it does not relieve us of the duty to look back and learn from mistakes made. I welcome the fact that the current Chief Constable, Mr Akerboom, has already started changes which, in any case, indicate determination to face and address the problems. D66 also endorses the conclusions of the Ruys report. I thank the committee for its excellent work. What this investigation mainly demonstrates is a structural problem within the police organisation, namely a lack of corrective capacity. I find it worrying that the police organisation does not appear to be reported and in this case it is deliberately ignored in this type of trans-standard behaviour. My main question to the Minister is therefore what is now being done to strengthen that internal police capacity. As a former director, I was rather surprised at the lack of attention paid to financial management during the reorganisation. Not only is undermining a persistent problem these days. If you want to fight that, you need to be very focused on financial management. However, it seems to me that it is also the first task in an organisation where so much tax money is involved to have financial management in order. It is also a basic condition to be able to function properly as an organisation. I ask the Minister whether the external supervision of the finances is now sufficient and how he sees the role of the Court of Auditors. What is also striking is the relationship between the cor and the unions, which, from the very beginning of the reorganisation, leads to an unclear division of roles and a division of responsibility. In my view, the Minister, at least his predecessors, is to blame for the fact that much earlier measures should have been taken to deal with this tension. Does the Minister recognise that responsibility and has that relationship improved? Another notable and in my view still incomprehensible event was the cor-chairman's salary increase. It remains unclear who exactly authorised this. Is my picture that the Chief Constable could do that on his own? If so, have the procedures been properly observed here? If it is true that one person can do so, should those procedures not be adapted? What was involved in this unfortunate event was, of course, the speed train with which the national police had to get there. D66 warned about that already in 2011. Speed has really gone above caution here. Previously, the Chief of Staff and the Minister indicated: at the end of 2017 the basis is really in order. We are approaching at the end of 2017, so my question is whether it is really going to work. The most important lesson we have to learn here is that changes must be made at a realistic pace. Are we going to make it by the end of 2017 or is more time needed? If the latter is the case, I'd rather hear it now. I would rather we now hear that it is going to take a little longer than making mistakes again in haste. I'm rounding up. What stays is a bitter aftertaste. Participation was facilitated in an abnormal way. That's bad for public trust in the police and the cop's trust in his leadership. Political responsibility has now been taken. For all of us, both coalition and opposition, it is important to learn lessons. The next cabinet will be the task of restoring confidence in the police both internally and externally. Do not let that paralyze us, but let us learn by doing so at a realistic pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	I hear Mrs Van Engelshoven say that, even in my terms, there is a structural lack of critical capacity within the police. In the report we can read that three members of the central works council finally took the courage to go to the department. When I see how the current Chief of Staff has engaged in activities, I do not think that falls under the flag of little critical capacity. I would ask Mrs van Engelshoven if she could be a little more specific, including to the current police organisation, what she means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	I agree with Mr Van Dam that the current Chief Constable is taking very good steps to strengthen internal critical capacity. But when you read the whole report and other reports that have already been published, we often see that there is little internal mention of abuses, sometimes with the press rather than with their own management. In this case we see that there has also been consciously looked away from above. That raises questions: are there enough checks-and-balances in the organisation and is there also enough safety in the organisation to ensure that when people feel like "gosh, here I have to ring the bell," are they actually doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	Do you mean, then, to the past, to the period described in this report? Or do you really want to have other things in mind for today? I think it would be nice for the police to get some direction from this Parliament. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yes, because that is why I asked the Minister what is being done, after we have got this picture, to strengthen that self-corrective capacity within the police. What steps have been taken to this end? I like to hear that. I also think it is important that it should be said publicly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	I thought it was a very justified interruption by my colleague Van Dam. I also heard you say that it is up to another cabinet to restore confidence in the police organization. That is actually a bit along the lines of the question that has just been asked, because isn't that mainly up to the police organisation itself? That would be my idea, with the help of politics. You just accused my group of wanting to send too much along. Now I ask you: how do you think that a next cabinet, which I think your group is going to be part of, will restore that confidence as a political one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	Quite rightful question, Mrs. Helder. You're absolutely right. It is, of course, primarily up to the corps leadership to ensure that that confidence is there, that the policeman on the street can be proud of his leadership and that there is trust over and over again. But that leadership does function under the political responsibility of a minister. Looking back we see that politics has pushed a high pace, causing things to go wrong. Too many priorities have been stacked. You said yourself that you could do something about it. I also think that this is a political responsibility which another cabinet should be well aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	Then it's clear to me. Then, of course, we'll wait and see. We can't mortgage the future. But do I understand from the words of Mrs Van Engelshoven that there is no lack of trust from the D66 Group in the current police organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	No, and I think I also said at the beginning of my speech that I think that the current corps leadership has taken very good steps to have confidence that it is indeed moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	The chairman's noticing it, too. You can feel it here in the hall. It's a bitter debate. By the death of the former chief of police, by the report of Mr Ruys and also by the results of it. They're tough as hell. If you look at the douche bags, the parties, the raises, the loans that have been paid out at the top, in this case by the central works council, and how that has not happened. I do have a question about the conclusions of the report. It says there has been arbitrariness and personal benefit. But Mr Ruys also says that there is no direct corruption. I ask the Minister whether he shares my view that the view of corruption in this report is narrow. It's about someone giving direct money for direct influence. But isn't that different? Doesn't that go much further through friends who support each other and an old boys network in which one covers one another and is more concerned with one's own interests than with the interests of the agents on the street? Isn't the concept of corruption much broader? More than five years ago, we made a decision here for a national police force. A number of conditions have been laid down. One of these conditions was a good embedding of the local police officers needed to be able to do their job better, but also, above all, a cultural change, another administrative culture at the top of the police. This report shows that it didn't work out. This report gives a glimpse at the top of the central works council, but I very much need a much wider investigation into the culture of the national police. There's gonna be an evaluation right now. Is this governance culture, which has not changed, also part of that evaluation? I also think, as I have already said, that we, as the House of Representatives, will have to play a role in this and perhaps we will also have to do research ourselves. Ruys also says that when the national police came into being, the minister and parliament put great financial pressure and pressure on time. There had to be substantial savings and the introduction had to be speeded up. We have also conducted an investigation as SP ourselves, along with a number of police unions, among over 1,600 police officers. We have looked into what the promises were about the national police and what the results are. I have to say, that wasn't easy for me. 85% of the officers, police officers claim that the service has been taken away. Over 80% consider that the method has become less efficient. Almost 60% believe that the introduction of national police has made the Netherlands more unsafe. The information systems and equipment are out of order. 80% also says the department doesn't know what's going on in the workplace. This scared the hell out of me. I've got the report right here. More than 1,600 cops have been involved. I would very much like to offer this report to the Minister. I would also ask the Minister to respond to this and to include it as part of the evaluation of the discussions we are having here in the House of Representatives. I would very much like that response from the Minister to deal with the budget for security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	I do have a question about this investigation, which EenVandaag freely put out of and where on the website the title "National Police is a fiasco" was put on top. I certainly don't share that, but I've already said that. I hear colleague Van Raak talking about 1,600 agents. But I have seen on Twitter several messages that asked his group whether it was all policemen who responded. I'm asking you to do this without trivializing the investigation. I just don't know, and that's why I'm asking the question here. Were they 1,600 cops? How did the investigation come about? So there are doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	We have quite a lot of experience with these kinds of investigations. We have set up the research in collaboration with a number of large unions. They've also been responsible for the spread. We have built in a lot of control questions and have also asked open questions. That way and by just looking at emails and using all kinds of other controls we could see what the functions were and where they worked. A substantial part of the investigation also concerned questions with which you indicated whether you were a real cop or not. In addition, we have been very careful. We've asked a lot of open questions. That allowed us, even if people came through the control questions, to see if it was serious. We just didn't include all those people and all the cops who didn't answer all those open questions, or a substantial part of them. So we've been very strict on methodology. The design, with control questions, was also such that the problem of non-response was not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	This gives us a little more clarity. Mr Van Raak always speaks in percentages of the 1,600 respondents, but it is also nice to see him expressing it as a percentage of the people working throughout the national police, because that is a very large proportion. Again, I don't want to trivialize the investigation, but I want to put it in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	We have seen that of the people who participated 63.43% have an executive function, 11.74% have a leading position................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's fairly representative. I think that's even perfectly representative. You can see that 84% of the participants have been working with the police for ten years or more. 1,627 officers have participated, and they are mainly police officers who have been working for much longer. That is a methodological advantage, because we have asked for a comparison between the situation in the police now and in the time when there were 26 corps. It is therefore logical that people who work in the police force for one, two, three years say that they cannot make up for that comparison. I must also say that a lot of agents indicate that the information systems are not in order. We have received quite a lot of complaints from police officers who wanted to fill in the survey but did not manage to do it with their ICT systems. This has also led to the fact that in a number of cases it has been broken down halfway or that the open questions have not been answered, which we have all taken out. Methodologically, therefore, I think that the Ministry can take another example. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to answer this question. I hope that we can get that before the budget of Security and Justice. Mr. Chairman. I cannot help but say that this report gives an insight into the culture of the police, at the top of the central works council. But this is just a peek. I want an overview, a good analysis of the whole culture at the top of the national police. Above all, I would like to know why the national police have not helped to improve this culture, but may even have deteriorated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the results of the Ruys Committee, which has investigated the abuses at the police's central works council. From this point on, I would like to thank the committee once again for its research report. Sometimes the national police seem to be spared nothing. The agents who do their best every day on the street to keep the Netherlands safe are regularly addressed to the many reports about the problems with the police. Research reveals serious problems, both at the central works council itself, where the standard sense was very flawed, and at the national police force leadership, where it was not worked as you might expect from a corps leadership, and at the Ministry of Security and Justice, which did not regard previous warnings on the lack of control of administration and finance as a priority. Research shows that from April 2016, the Ministry received signals from the trade unions, the Director of Corps Staff and the current Chief of Staff on the expenditure of the Central Works Council. I want to know exactly what happened to these signals. Was the Minister personally informed about these signals at the time? It is also important to know whether previous signals from mayors and the Court of Auditors on administrative organisation and financial control were not taken seriously by the national police. The Ruys Committee says that this was not a priority. Again, how can such serious signals not be a priority? It's about the policemen and the taxpayers' money of our citizens. The Committee also points out that the problems at the central works council were not caused by the formation of the national police but by the speed of the process. "Strike on time and result" has helped to create a culture in which the goal was so important that the process went carelessly. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Then there's the issue of influence. I understand that the committee has found no evidence or evidence of corruption. The personal relationship has led to favors in a business atmosphere. So it's arranged in an old boys network. I would like to hear from the Minister how he weighs the opinion of the Committee, that there is no influence by the mode of action of the Chief Constable, given the many examples which show that the Central Works Council and the Chairman have benefited in particular from generous advantages. Research also shows that there is something very wrong with the culture in the organisation. The self-correction must really improve. How did it happen that the people who saw the course of events didn't intervene? Fortunately, the current corps leadership is not sitting still and is currently working very hard to improve the organisation. I would like to encourage the national police to improve their own processes. Many questions are being asked today, including by my colleagues. I am still waiting for the Minister to reply, but GroenLinks would also like to look ahead in the interests of the police and citizens. First of all, I believe that the government and the Chamber must ensure that, in the event of major changes to the system, we allow the speed and the result to be at the expense of quality. This is not only bad for the employees involved, but also for the public's trust in the government as a whole and in the police specifically. Studies show that the national police do not have sufficient control over administrative and financial organisation, the HRM processes and participation, and that there are too few checks-and-balances to develop a good self-correcting capacity. It also states in investigations that supervision of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is really inadequate. What is the Minister going to do to improve all this? I'll wait for the answer and have a motion in my hand. This minister is politically responsible for the national police. I therefore ask him to follow this process of improvement closely and to keep the Chamber well on track. In the short term, we will discuss the evaluation of the national police in this Chamber. I assume that the organisational culture, the checks-and-balances and the supervision of the national police will be important elements of the evaluation. The last word has not yet been said. Today, I would like to be promised by the Minister that there will be a sound improvement plan. But since it is wise to await the evaluation, I will come back to this later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Ruys Committee for its excellent work and wish the relatives of the deceased Chief Gerard Bouman much strength. When I was a 14-year-old boy working in the catering industry, I asked my boss why he checked his waiters every day. After all, he'd known them for years. I still remember his answer. He said he was doing this to keep honest people honest. That didn't happen in the police department. That is why we are talking today about abuses in the central works council. The first conclusion in the Ruys Committee's report is devastating. Financial management and control were not a priority in the establishment of the national police. Further on, the report states that the Minister was aware of this problem and that he should have taken action earlier. Has this VVD minister been negligent? And what did this negligence lead to? Budgets were rejected, but the money was just spent. Budgets were exceeded by tons, but the department just let it go: candy trips to Curaçao, for €89,000 meeting in a restaurant... for that amount you should be able to buy a restaurant? €8,000 for clothing advice, the president of the Cor who used a police credit card for private expenses and thus €14,000 cashpinde and the chairman who had 198 bottles of wine delivered to his own wife. So all this happened at taxpayers' expense at the time when agents demonstrated for a better salary. Tons of taxpayers' money have been chased through it. What kind of punishment do you get for this kind of abuse? You'll be rewarded by the former Chief Constable for promoting Inspector to Superintendent. Later this promotion was reversed, but the chairman was allowed to keep that money. The research report also states that it is unclear whether the former chief of police has bought influence with this, but it clearly states that he has not taken his responsibility. It's a good thing the abuses have been investigated. The chairman of the central works council is dismissed and the prosecution investigates his possible frauds. DENK wants to know how the minister looks back on his actions and that of his predecessor. How is it possible that, although we would like to achieve such a large operation as the merger of 26 corps, we do not want to set priorities in the areas of financial management and control? How does society get part of that money back? Is it possible to file a claim against the former chairman of the Central Works Council? Can money be recovered from external parties who have benefited from this negligence? I'm finishing up with a quote from a civilian, someone who's worked with the police for decades. He said: "The Ruys Committee's report states that there is a culture of pals within the police, a culture in which standing up for colleagues is more important than reporting abuses." He writes: "I recognize this. This takes place in particular within the management positions. Once a chef has decided to hold a miscarriage under his hat, all other superior chiefs are uncritically behind that decision, even without investigation. But besides a buddy culture, there is also a settlement culture. People who make reports of abuses that are not acceptable to the leadership will be paid for. I have been able to see from my own experience that the people of that buddy culture will act mercilessly. You are completely destroyed and they do not flinch back for demonstrable lies." That's why I'm asking this VVD minister what he thinks of that buddy culture in which abuses are covered up. Is he going to investigate this, like my colleague Van Raak did early? He's one of those VVD crimefighters, right? Then he has to deal with these abuses as well, because if he doesn't, he's not a crime fighter, he's a crime leaseer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. This is an uncomfortable debate. The previous colleagues have already referred to this. I too would like to join with the words of sympathy with the Bouman family. I would like to thank the Ruys committee, which has done important work and which will be a precursor to the forthcoming greater evaluation of the national police. Looking back, I think that we can already carefully conclude that the formation of national police has in any case been accompanied by too much time pressure. However, I would like to point out that we were all there. As a politician, we share responsibility for this. This also means that we now share responsibility for making a success of the national police in the right or left. But it also calls for us to look critically and dare to look at what is going well and what is not going well within the national police. For all those policemen on the street, but also for those who follow the debate or have read the reports in the newspaper, it is clear that integrity scandals affect the confidence of the whole police, but also the whole prestige of the government, and must be prevented at all times. The speed of formation of the national police is perhaps a mitigating circumstance but is never an excuse for what has happened. Supervision of proper financial management is a matter of course and there were so many alarm bells that they simply should not have been missed. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my first question, about culture in the national police. Colleagues before me have already referred to this. Five years ago it was said with great passion: we're going for it, we're going for it. Bouman was appointed by Opstelten. Then there were also choices made in the leadership of the police organisation that fit well in that pattern. In the meantime, we have another chief of police, someone who is more of the connection, of taking people with us to set up the police organization. My question to the Minister is: does this culture, the number of managers and the way it is designed still fit in with the further process of change of the national police? In what way is the evaluation sufficiently secured precisely that culture, which is a soft value? This is crucial in order to ensure the safety and prevention of the culture of beauties, to which Mr Azarkan referred. My second main question is about supervision. We've arranged surveillance in a lot of ways. It is mainly about monitoring that the Minister should support. We have the General Court of Auditors, we have the inspection and we have the Supervisory Board of National Police. This committee assesses the way in which the police implement the policies and management rules laid down by the Minister. But it's a remote commission. My specific question to the Minister now is: would it not be advisable, similar to a supervisory board, to place something next to the chief of police, besides in this case Mr Akerboom, in order to better shape the process of change that we are going through with each other, in order to strengthen him? The organization is incredibly large and the system is incredibly unbearable. This requires not only remote surveillance, but also an ally who looks over your shoulder to see if things are going well and if things might be better in the organisation. That is the specific question I have. Finally, Mr President. This is a first debate. It's not the last debate. The evaluation of the national police force will give rise to a lot of discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to begin my contribution by remembering the death of former Chief Bouman and wishing the family strength. Mr. Chairman. It is my honour and pleasure to be able to express this contribution on behalf of the Christian Union. Those are great moments. When you think about the police, you think about determination, craftsmanship and integrity, but when you read the report before you from the Ruys Committee, it becomes clear that this has not always been the case. This not only causes serious image damage to the police but also reduces the confidence of citizens in the police. In the course of time it had already come out that there were major problems around the central works council of the police. This report shows how bad it really was. And that, even though in recent years it has been shown how difficult the formation of the national police force is, how difficult that process is. All this has also caused the police to spend a lot of time on internal processes rather than really focusing on its core task, namely catching bad guys. The SGP and the Christian Union believe that the integrity of the police at all levels and at all levels should be beyond any doubt. Where this is not the case on parts, this, as I have noticed, also causes great unrest and even substitute shame within the police. It is therefore a good thing that the necessary criminal investigations are still taking place on this dossier. The central works council is not for itself but for the interests of the national police and employees. It is therefore a good thing that the new central works council can now start with a clean slate. I have the following questions for the Minister. Firstly, I ask him how it is possible that the Ministry had no knowledge of the misconduct and financial excesses for so long. How could it have happened that the Minister responsible did not know about this until April 2016? The second question. What does the Minister do with the fact that the Ministry was aware of the tense relationship between the central works council and the police unions and the corps leadership from the outset, when no action has been taken? The third question. The Ruys Committee's report states that improving financial control in the national police was not a priority for the Ministry, although attention has been paid to this. Is the careful use of resources not one of the important objectives to which the Ministry must review an organisation? The fourth question. Is the Minister convinced that the current central works council and the control of the use of its resources are now well regulated, including the control mechanisms? In concrete terms, I would like to ask what measures have been taken to that end. The fifth question. Does the Minister have the impression that relations are now better and that the efforts of the central works council and the interests of the police are now directed in one direction, namely towards promoting quality, craftsmanship and integrity? Is it now sufficiently guaranteed that the central works council is no longer there for itself, but that it stands for the interests of the national police and the employees? Finally, I would like to ask a general question, which is in line with a question from Mr D66, among others. What lessons have we learned from this on all sides squatting file of the current national police? Will these aspects also be reflected in the evaluation of the whole process and the national police? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. You spoke on behalf of two groups and you stayed within four minutes. Well, almost. I now give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Chairman. Let me, like colleagues before me, begin by saying that I too have some discomfort here. Former Chief Constable Bouman, who has worked with incredible dedication in the service of the police throughout his life, has recently passed away. A large part of the Ruys report, which we are discussing here today, is about him. I therefore think it is only right that we should have this debate with respect today, for that reason alone. I now turn to the content of the Ruys report. It is a clear report, just as clear as Mr Ruys' explanatory statement yesterday during the briefing we received as a Chamber. There is no discussion that the central works council of the national police has handled public money very carelessly in recent years. That is unacceptable for the VVD, not only for the taxpayer but also for the agents, who do their work loyally and devotedly every day and are addressed on the street on this money mileage. And it happened by the body that represents them. It is good that we now have a clear picture of these abuses and we can use this report to ensure that this does not happen again. I have the following questions for the Minister. First of all, I will deal with the inconvenience that we all feel in the money bounce. Can the Court understand exactly why it is involved? How much tax money has actually been spent on expensive bottles of wine, outings and parties? There's still a criminal investigation going on. What are the chances of financial compensation or compensation, so that some of the money comes back? Then I'd like to take a look back at the interview that the new chairman of the Cor gave to BNR yesterday. He said that, on the basis of the Ruys report, there was too one-sided and too negative a picture and that the decision-making process on the establishment of the national police was indeed a good one. Mr Ruys also said again yesterday that there was, of course, influence, which is inherent in the task of bribery, but not bribery. On crucial opinions between 2012 and 2014, there is no evidence of this either. So yes, the financial administration failed and there was very poor financial control, but there was no bribery. That is an important conclusion. At the same time, of course, it is still not right that public money was thrown, that someone got a salary increase and that there was a personal loan. The report speaks for a reason about arbitrariness and personal benefit. That is why it is important that the national police works council is now designed in such a way that this does not happen again in the future. The most important question as far as the VVD is concerned is how to organise participation as a national police force, how to set up the system. The current chief of police has been working on this. Lessons are drawn and that's good. The Cor is also due to carry out another study; this report is expected in mid-October. In anticipation of this the question already arises: is it comparable to other works councils of other executive institutions of the government? Can the Minister state at all what is the situation with regard to the facilities that similar works councils receive or have? Another concern of the VVD is how better it can be ensured that the members of the works council maintain sufficient contact with that workplace. I can imagine that the role of certainly the President is one that is difficult to reconcile with another function. But how can the embedding of the or within the national police, within the workplace, be better secured? There is too much risk of being employed. I'd like a response. One more question about the relationship between the CoR and the police trade unions. When I read the report like that, there's a lot of tension on this. How can this ratio be improved? The Borstlap report also made recommendations on this. Can the Minister give his views on this? When will we be informed? Mr. Chairman. These were my questions. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have a number of questions for Mrs Tellegen. Excuse me, I don't want to leave you here any longer than necessary, but still. You ask a lot of questions, but you do not ask one, and I would like to have your reflection on that. At the request of the VVD, the national police had to be quickly established under high pressure. It's the VVD's parade horse. How do you look back at that rate in retrospect, because that rate has not yet brought financial management in order? At the time, the Minister knew about this tense relationship between the unions and the cor, but he did not do anything about it either, apparently for the sake of time. How do you look back at all this in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	First of all, when I look at what the Ruys report writes about this, there is a very clear cut between the role of the Ministry towards the cor and what the Ministry already knew when it came to the national police and the pace of the whole reorganisation. I think that's wise. Yesterday Mr Ruys also spoke very clearly about the four s's: the speed, the scale, the structure and the players. These are four elements which I think should be looked at very firmly and fundamentally and undoubtedly also now by Mr Kuijken, who is investigating the evaluation of national police. Everything shows that it is a very large project, and still it is, that it is possible that people have indeed tried to shape it under too much time pressure. At the same time, as a Chamber, we have been one of them from now on. So there too we have some responsibility to take on our own. But you won't hear me say here that it's all been very easy. Once again, I think that we should have this discussion very firmly with each other when Mr Kuijken's report is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	The D66 Group warned about this at the time, but I am very pleased that the VVD recognizes that this time pressure has not been sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	I had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	Those were not exactly my words, but Mrs van Engelshoven's summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	I am curious to know what Mr Tellegen thinks of the fact that, while there is no evidence that successive ministers of security and justice were aware of it, in particular that the minister was previously warned about the administrative organisation, that it was a mess, and that he once again did not give priority to it as a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	That's what I just said to Mrs. Van Engelshoven. That is the cut that is being made between, on the one hand, no signals about financial abuses at the central works council and, on the other hand, Mr Ruys' clear observation that there were very clear signals about financial control vis-à-vis the national police in general. I would also like to put that cut there for today's debate, but not because I want to run away from it. On the contrary, I think it is one of the essential questions that we all have to answer in the overall evaluation of the national police. It is quite clear that things did not go well there, at least under too much time pressure. Perhaps more appropriate action could have been taken at the front. Once again, however, I do not want to take this debate in the broadest sense here, because I think it is important that we start with the debate on the central works council and then go on to the bigger questions about the reorganisation of the national police in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	I hear a long story. Can I conclude that you consider that the Minister has not acted correctly in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	No, I'm not going that far. I remain very close to what Mr Ruys says very clearly. He says on the one hand: neither the Ministry, nor the officials, nor the Minister were aware of the financial abuses at the Central Works Council until April 2016. He also said that it would have been better to steer the whole, namely the financial control of the national police as a whole, on the front. I think that's a very serious signal. I also think that this is a question that needs to be answered very carefully in the evaluation of the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	My colleague walks away from it every time. The first part of what you are saying is correct, but the second part is that after repeatedly stating that there were abuses, nothing happened again. Your party, the VVD, has been adorning the number of integrity violations in the last five years. So perhaps it was not entirely recognizable to you that this was a violation of integrity and of things that simply could not be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	I am very pleased that Mr Azarkan has asked the same question three times. I have answered him quite extensively, so I really have nothing more to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr Ruys also mentions a number of things relating to the national police. The time pressure, the VVD looking back says: that was not good...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	Again, I did not say that in so many words. I see that Mr Ruys is aware of this. He's not the only one. Time pressure has been discussed before. I assume that the pace at which this major project had to be implemented is a question that comes back very pregnant at the national police review. I am not judging that at the moment. That's what you make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs Tellegen mentions the four s's. We also have the three b's: cuts, cuts and cuts. Does Mrs Tellegen agree, looking back, that, with such a huge reorganisation as that of the national police, you cannot at the same time make very substantial cuts? Isn't that asking for trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	These are questions that... I'm not running away from it, but the answer is no. If I would like to answer this question in a different way and in more detail, it is in the budgetary treatment or in the evaluation of the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	I imagine, Mr President, that I was still ignorant that a debate would take place here at the moment and I was called from my party offices: Theo, you must go to the Chamber immediately because there is a debate about the national police. Then I would immediately think: oh, then there must be a report of a manifest error there. And yes, this time it is the Ruys Committee's turn. It's about the police, and it's about proven shortcomings in the national police. It is from the same sheet a suit as the many rumors, reports and findings that outsiders and people internally wanted to give to the people. It is not easy with the national police, and now, on the basis of the Ruys Committee's report, we need to concentrate on the strapats of the expensive chairman. It's a bit comical somewhere; I can't help it either, because it's taxpayers' money. But surely you don't expect to find photos in the newspaper of overburdened police officers celebrating each other through the curtains of the Amstelhotel? You'd give them a good time, but you couldn't have expected this in your wildest dreams, could you? And that is all because they cannot be kept sufficiently financial, because they were too busy organizing the national police. Well, I guess that's not so bad. When you see how initiates and rulers in this metier wish to enjoy themselves, there is obviously plenty of time to exercise some self-discipline to let this get to you. I cannot imagine that those who would have had to check them could have missed so much time that this could go on for so long. But we have a limited insight. It's about this incident now, and we really don't know exactly what happened. The chairman in question is involved in a criminal investigation. So that's not what they're asking for here. You can't, because we're not gonna get any answers. Unfortunately, the Chief Constable is unable to express himself on this matter any longer. So we're not gonna find out exactly what happened there. We must do it with the reassuring conclusion of the Ruys Committee that it has not been found that in the consultation process of the central works council... I would like to know what they are doing. I haven't had such a long experience in this Chamber yet, but I would like to know what such a central works council is doing, so they need so much money to do what they do. Then there must be a lot of auspicious work from their involvement in the police force, but I do not really understand that. If you don't really have that and you can't even imagine it, then I'm not going to ask the Minister whether he wants to explain where these immense amounts and repeated budget overruns work for those concerned. I can't reach it with my wits yet, you know. And so, in this case, you bump from curious incident to all sorts of other discomfort, because this is all happening in a situation around the national police that doesn't cheer you up when you hear the voices of initiates. The tracking rates are dramatic. The odds of getting caught are small. Police assistance in cities, but especially in rural areas, is inadequate. The absenteeism is large-scale and I would like to ask the Minister a question about that. Questions have been asked from the Chamber as to whether the Minister wishes to carry out a thorough analysis of the current situation with regard to the culture of the national police. Well, I'd like to know how many people are suing each other out of there. Can the Minister say on the basis of the current state of affairs how many police officers are suing their employer? That's a lot to say. If that's a big deal, then you know you have to row well against the current before you can say that there's a real change of culture to be expected. Then you're hiding pretty well. So that's what I'd like to know from the Minister. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister what is the current situation with regard to absenteeism. The number of employment, civil servants' proceedings against the employer must be simple and give a good insight into the course of events. The vote in the workplace is very important, and it shows that. Furthermore, I've read that there were signals before, financially tinted. Unsatisfied financial issues have been raised, perhaps through whistleblowers, but we do not know that. No action has been taken because it seems inappropriate, but these signals are, of course, recorded. Could the Minister perhaps send the contents of these signals to the Chamber by letter? Then we can check whether action has been taken in good time or whether this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	Are you gonna finish or are you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	I am ready, with the remaining mention that only a much deeper understanding is obtained in the form of a parliamentary survey, whereby people from the workplace and not officials who have become entangled and are called to account or discussed here can also give their say. But we'll do what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thinking about the tragic event which caused the presentation of the report to be postponed, namely the cardiac arrest of Mr Bouman, the former Chief of Staff. Unfortunately, that cardiac arrest was followed by his premature death on July 31st. I would like to say, as I have said before, that I have great respect for Mr Bouman's commitment to public affairs and safety in the Netherlands throughout his career. That does not mean that we should not look openly and critically at what has happened, but I remember him with much appreciation and am in mind with his next of kin. I too, as all Members of Parliament have done, would like to thank the Ruys Committee for the thorough work it has done in carrying out an investigation that is essential to bring the facts to the table, to learn lessons and to take steps towards better functioning participation and better functioning national police. I have said before in this Chamber that I am incredibly proud of the men and women of our national police. At times when we have to talk about things that have not gone well, I always think of the men and women who are literally ready for our safety day and night, and are talking about what people see on TV or in the newspapers about their organisation, an organisation they are proud of and at the same time dealing with invigorating affairs. This also applies to the fact that it is no reason not to dwell carefully on what has gone wrong and to learn lessons from it. The Ruys Committee has done this along three lines. First of all, this is the internal supervision of the central works council's finances. The committee is cracking very critical notes about this. The expenditures that have been made there are, to some extent, totally unacceptable. That's not how you deal with taxpayers' money. There people have made mistakes and the monitoring of important points was not good; I will go into more detail in a moment. The second issue the Committee has examined is whether there was any influence on decision-making by the way in which the cor was controlled and by the way in which he could spend money. The committee then makes an unequivocal no. There's no direct connection. The third question concerns the role of the Ministry and the responsible minister of V and J: was he aware of the abuses and did he do enough to ensure that the relationship between the central works council and the trade unions went well? The committee also gives clear answers to this. She says that the minister was not aware before April 2016, but that the difficult relationship between trade unions and works council should have been tackled more firmly. Perhaps some of the problems would have been avoided or things would have gone differently. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Ruys Committee has written a good report and I therefore intend to act in accordance with their recommendations. From this general point of view, I shall deal with all the questions put by Members of Parliament, starting with those of Mr Van Dam. He was the first to discuss the question of whether such large steps or risks had been taken in the formation of the national police force that it was irresponsible and that it was recognised in good time. I would like to begin by saying, as I heard from Mr Van Dam, that I still think it is very sensible that a national police force has been chosen. The type of crime we are dealing with, which will always be partly local in nature, but, unfortunately, where you see the emergence of organised crime, cybercrime and terrorism, a national approach is really needed. As big and complicated as the transition to national police has been, I still think that the decision itself is a sensible one. Mr Van Dam's question has been raised before. In 2015, the then Minister of Justice informed the Chamber that the pace and ambition of the reorganisation were too high and that this was reason for a re-evaluation of both parts of the formation of a national police force. So yes, there is a lot of demand from the national police. It is good that that has been adjusted, but I would not like to say that it is irresponsible. Again, I think the choice of a national police force is crucial. In the event of a reorganisation, it is also inevitable that you opt for a firm but responsible pace. When you announce a reorganisation, a logical first question from everyone is: what does it mean to me? This applies first of all to the employees, to the people in the Netherlands, to the mayors, responsible for safety in the Netherlands. The continued existence of such uncertainty is in itself harmful. So you need to clarify at the beginning of such a trajectory as soon as possible when the answer comes to the question what it means to someone. You don't have the answer yourself on day 1, but it really helps if you can indicate which step is planned when. You would do damage by leaving that either completely unclear or putting that answer so far in the future that people would really be in absolute uncertainty for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	However, I would like to ask the Minister a little more specifically. I specifically asked whether the Minister, with the Ruys report in his hand, did not consider that there were irresponsible risks here. Why am I asking? We all criticize the culture in the police of 'don't want to pronounce you' and 'don't have the guts to bring out bad things'. At the same time, I believe that we are setting an example in this arena and that, looking at ourselves and also the minister, we are drawing conclusions with which he is also looking at his predecessors under state law. It would, in a sense, be liberating, also for the police, if a very clear conclusion were to be drawn at some point. Mind you, I think it's okay for the Chamber to do the same. In part, this is on the border to the evaluation of the Police Act, but I would particularly like to point out, also as an example, that the Minister would be a little more generous in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr Van Dam is quite right to be here as the minister responsible for all the organisations I am dealing with and for all the doing and doing of all my predecessors. In that regard, I believe that the pace and scale of the formation of the national police as originally planned were too ambitious. I then agree with what was reported to the Court in 2015 and with the measures, the review that took place at that time. At the same time, I do not think there was an irresponsible operation. I say that because I think the goal itself, a national police, is still a logical goal. On the other hand, I would have found it irresponsible not to make that choice with regard to the new forms of crime we are dealing with. Also, where I say with the knowledge of today 'too ambitious, too fast', I do not think that you can start a reorganisation without being ambitious and without indicating pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	I think I can totally agree that the national police as such is a good thing. I also think I can understand why there was haste at the time, because in the divided Kingdom of the Netherlands someone had to take the lead; let us be honest. But the first conclusion of the Ruys Committee states that there was a great deal of financial pressure and time pressure. I don't want to touch words like "unaccountable" or whatever, but doesn't the Minister share my view that, in retrospect, when you see what this meant for people, the financial pressure and the time pressure were just too great? The national police had to get there, given the crime scene. The fact that someone has taken the lead in that direction is also a good thing. But a little more judgment wouldn't hurt the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Van Dam now refers to the Ruys Committee. In my introduction, I indicated that I share the conclusions and recommendations of the Ruys Committee and that I see it as my task to ensure that an approach is now in line with the recommendations of the Ruys Committee. In part, it has already been implemented. This indeed relates to financial management. The Ruys Committee is very critical of this, specifically with regard to the works council, but broader with regard to the focus on financial management in the national police. As far as the whole operation of the formation of the national police is concerned, I believe that the ambition of both the pace and the size of the operation originally planned was too great. That is why it was wise to review them in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	Definitely in conclusion. With that, I hear that the Minister agrees with me that it was too big. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u67	If Mr Van Dam puts it that way, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u68	The report on the national police that we are discussing today makes statements about the time pressure, but also about the financial pressure: cuts, cuts, cuts. There has been a huge reorganisation in the formation of the national police force, and substantial cuts have been made. Does the Minister share the conclusion that that is simply not possible and that it has been a stupid choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u69	No, not as Mr Van Raak puts it. The formation of the national police had a good reason, because of its content, namely the changing forms of crime. I was just getting into that. At the same time, it took place at a time when the Netherlands was incredibly difficult financially. Then it is logical and inevitable that you look at all parts of the government with the question: is it reasonably possible to do things smarter and more efficient here? We had to deal with a large number of regional corps, all of which had to invent their own wheel around procurement, ICT, part of human resources policy and housing. In such a situation, it is not strange to expect savings if we do so in one place, all at the same time buying cars and regulating housing according to central standards. This operation took place simultaneously with the state service as a whole, for which I was responsible until eight months ago. This has also led to savings there. That also sometimes turned out to be less than we had hoped for, but the basic idea that it would save savings if you could combine a number of things is a logical one. It's also part of a decent way of dealing with taxpayers' money that you keep looking at every organization, including the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u70	We have had so many debates here, so many investigations and so many surveys that each time it appears that you cannot at the same time carry out a major reorganisation and a major reduction. That leads to chunks, always. I find it most worrying that the Minister does not support that conclusion. I find that really disturbing. Of course, a reorganisation at the end can lead to a reduction. It's possible. But reorganising and at the same time cutting back, we have just learned in recent years that it is not possible. If the Minister insists that we can, then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr Van Raak generally states that you can never combine reorganisation and austerity, but that is not right. In my previous role, I was responsible for the housing market and major reforms. At the same time, I had to integrate an important part of the former Ministry of Housing it was first Reconstruction, when Housing and then VROM, a huge Ministry of Interior and reduce the number of executives. At the same time, we have cut and reorganized there and thus done a huge job in terms of content, with great respect for the officials who have done so at the same time. This is an example that we all know of and that Mr Van Raak's general statement that you can never reorganise at the same time, cut back and carry out a difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u72	I find the Ministry's ability to learn disgusting. Let me at least say that. This report by the Ruys Committee shows that there are major cultural problems at the central works council. I'd like a general survey of the culture at the top of the national police force. That was one of the promises five years ago: we are going to work not only on a different structure, but also on a different culture. I don't think that's gonna work. Is the Minister prepared to pay a great deal of attention to this culture change that has not taken place in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u73	The subject of culture has been discussed extensively, so I would also like to go into it in detail. I think I do not want Mr Van Raak and other questioners if I do that now in the case of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u74	That's good, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u75	If I understand the Minister correctly, he still defends the pace, the speed at which this whole process had to take place. 26 autonomous corps units had to be transformed into one national police force. I understand very well that policemen at individual level need a clear route, but that mission was also accompanied by a considerable cut in the budget. Anyone who starts a reorganisation knows that at the start you will incur costs in order to be able to obtain the benefits of such a reorganisation, the austerity that the Minister has set out to achieve. Does the Minister share the conclusion of the Ruys Committee that this was at such a rate that this has been at the expense of the due diligence of the process and the quality? How does the Minister himself see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u76	I have indicated that I share the conclusions of the Ruys Committee, including the lack of financial supervision and the extent and pace of the formation of the national police. Mr Ruys is not the first to conclude that they were too large. That was also a reason for a recalibrate. I am certainly not criticising all of me, not Mr Ruys' criticism and not the criticism that has been expressed earlier. This is also the reason why some measures have been taken and some of them will continue to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm clearly hearing an acknowledgement, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u78	The Minister says: it is still good that the national police have arrived. I think everyone here is saying that "but it was too ambitious and too fast," and it is good that that review came in 2015. I'm glad the Secretary of State says so wholeheartedly here. He says it wasn't irresponsible. In that light, I have one more question. The Ruys Committee points the finger at the fact that certainly in the early years there was no beginning of a good planning and control cycle. As a result, we are still questioning the figures they give. Do those numbers make sense? Shouldn't there have been more attention to financial management at that time? Have we not simply taken irresponsible steps in this respect? People didn't really know what they were spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u79	More attention should have been paid from the outset to financial management, to the central works council and to the police as a whole. Here too, I do not accept the phrase 'unresponsible'. I do not think that the fact that financial management is not in order should justify any mistake. Mrs van Engelshoven doesn't say that either, but it doesn't relieve people of their responsibilities. I do think that my ministry, and I am responsible for that, should have been sharper from the beginning, from day one, right on that financial aspect, because you do know very well how big and complicated such an operation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u80	I hear the Minister say that from day one the Ministry should also have been more focused on financial management. I am very glad that the Minister recognizes this here in such equestrian terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yeah, and the Department of State, that's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u83	This was all in response to a question from Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Dam also asked me what I think about the fact that members of the works council are completely exempt from regular work and whether you are at risk of losing contact with the workplace as he put it. I understand the background to the question very well. The Works Councils Act does not indicate that there should be a full exemption, but that there should be sufficient space, in time and financially, to give the participation proper content. We all realize that participation in such a large organisation is really a job, and especially in times of such a complicated operation as the formation of the national police. The Chief of Staff has already decided to compare the facilities available to the police's central works council with those available to other central works councils in the government and concluded that they are actually too generous. The Chief Constable is going to conclude a new agreement with the Central Works Council. Then Mrs Helder, who first of all, looking back, concluded that she still considers the formation of the national police to be justified. It's a conclusion that I share with her heartfeltly. She then asks what the conclusions of this report mean for the workplace, from the same appreciation that I also heard from Mrs Helder for the policemen and women on the street. Major steps have already been taken by the Chief of Staff and the team around him. The control of the expenditure of the central works council has been strengthened. I already indicated that the facilities they have are compared and will be adapted. The Chief Constable is regularly and with my full support in the news to raise problems and propose solutions. Then, for example, it's about the culture of the police. There has been a series of conversations with executives, for example about the point the Ruys Committee points out, that in an organisation where you should always be able to trust each other blindly, you dare to speak to each other about abuses. In addition, we have often discussed in this Chamber the ambition of the Chief of Staff and myself to provide a more diverse workforce. This must be more diverse in terms of ethnic background, professional background and age. These are all steps that will not at once change that culture, but are indispensable to change that culture. In the end, but not too long-term, this must be felt in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u84	I don't think this section on culture is ready yet. Is that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u85	I answer by questioner. I also had other questions about culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u86	Since you told Mr. Van Raak that you would come back to the chapter on culture, perhaps you should finish it before I allow any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u87	I will come back to that with Mrs Van Engelshoven and Mr Van Raak himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u88	Okay. Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u89	Very briefly. I hear the Minister saying that the Chief Constable is in or is going to have talks with executives. Now, last week, the Chief Constable in the media said that he will be talking to a number of people on the occasion of the Ruys report. He looked a little threatening in the lens. I think it would be very good if the Minister were to be more specific and indicate who the Chief Constable will be speaking to on this report. I don't need to know names, but I need to know the type of officials involved. My question is intended to end this in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u90	There are basically two types of conversations. That will also have to do with the threatening look. Some of the discussions concerned the members and former members of the central works council, who themselves had a drink of the wine and declared it. There are talks with them about accountability about those declarations and where that was really wrong, about reimbursement. That falls under the "threatening look" category. In addition, the Chief Constable has launched a broader process of cultural change. Cultural change must always be very pre-eminent by the leadership. It is therefore logical that the chief of police should have talks with the executives. How do we ensure that we ourselves live up to this culture change as leaders? How do we ensure that culture in the workplace will eventually become really different and that people are convinced that they can raise wrongdoings or suspicions of wrongdoing without turning against them? That they think: I can also do nothing to the detriment of the police academy with a slightly different background than the police academy, but that diversity is very good here. It will also be very practical: do you realize that the wrong jokes that are liked in some circles can be very hurtful for other people. This is typically the kind of cultural change that is taking a long time, that really needs to be pre-empted by the summit and that needs to be brought to the attention of the public again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u91	A few MPs have asked questions about this. I would nevertheless ask the Minister to deal with the section on culture at once. Otherwise, Members of Parliament should have the opportunity, after every sentence, to say something about it, when you might come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u92	I always have two choices for the layout of my answer. One is per spokesperson and the other is per chapter. I hope that Mrs van Engelshoven will have responded to the question of culture. Let me take a look at Mr Van Raak. He had two other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u93	If things get too complicated, we're just gonna do it by spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u94	That's a little easier for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u95	For the next time, it would be clearer. Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u96	I do not have an additional question about culture, but I do have a question about those talks, also in relation to the threatening look. Will the Chief Constable also have an intrusive conversation with former members of the Corps leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u97	If you ask it that way, the answer is undoubtedly yes, but you are referring to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u98	What exactly do you mean, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u99	I ask because I hear the Minister say that the Chief Constable will have intrusive talks with the members of the Central Works Council. It is then those members who in the past, to put it bluntly, have been drinking along. I think that is relevant, including for the imagery within the national police force, whether those conversations are limited to those people only, or whether people in the former corps leadership, for example the deputy chief of police, can expect conversations. I think it's relevant for people to have the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u100	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr Van Dam will understand that I never make statements here that can be traced back to individuals. Again, I am responsible for every policeman or woman under state law. I very much agree with Mr Van Dam that discussions about what has gone wrong and what needs to be changed include both managers and members and former members of the central works council. But I think I have just also indicated that the Chief Constable will conduct those talks with the leadership in order to enable these people to carry out this cultural change. And I didn't say for nothing that a culture change always starts with leadership: you're only credible if you do and show that integrity that you ask of your people. I come to Mrs Van Engelshoven. Her first question was about the concrete steps taken to change culture. I hope I have just answered that question. She then asked about the monitoring of the Court's finances and the role of the Court. I have already indicated that I take the criticism of financial supervision from the Ruys Committee to heart. In 2015, adjustments were made in the context of the re-evaluation of police planning and control. It is then a question of strengthening it. The role of the central controller has been strengthened. And the personnel and equipment research that the Chamber has received, combined with the investigation into police funding, has led to additional money in later years and to tightening up financial management. I am informed on a quarterly basis about the progress of this financial management because, as I indicated, I am very concerned that shortcomings have been identified. The role of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Van Engelshoven, is always an ex post audit. The Court of Auditors has also issued critical reports on this issue and continues to follow closely the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u102	I would like to put a supplementary question to the Minister. That financial management that informs you every four months, who does?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u103	You need to indicate more precisely what you mean by "that."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u104	What body or part of your ministry or within the government is that investigating that financial progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u105	The police have a control function of their own. That function has been strengthened. She makes reports she presents to my ministry. In my ministry there is a Directorate General Police with people with great expertise. They look at these reports, provide them with advice and submit them to me. In addition, later this year, the Chamber will receive two comprehensive reports from the Chicken Commission and the Inspection V and J. This will address the progress of the form of the national police. Of course, the financial side will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u106	Does the Audit Service Empire still have a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u107	The Audit Service has looked at and will continue to look at the police in the recent past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mrs Van Engelshoven asked how the salary increase of the chairman of the central works council went and whether there was supervision. In this case, too, there has been the four-eyed principle. The initiative was therefore with the Chief Constable, but the actual assessment and promotion was made by the deputy. That four-eye principle is the standard procedure for police promotions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u110	I still have a question about that. The four-eye principle applies. The Chief Constable and his deputy seem to have accepted this, but are there any substantive criteria to be met by such an assessment? If it is only the manager and his deputy who wants it, it does not reassure me very much about how promotions are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u111	The procedure should also include an opinion from the staff department, which should, of course, advise on the substantive basis. I understand the background to Mrs Van Engelshoven's question very well, because the Ruys Committee says that this promotion was unfounded. This is an example of an event that took place because the contradiction was apparently not well organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u112	If I may ask: was there really a HRM advice, as is common for these kinds of promotions, on top of the four-eyed principle? Was there really advice from Hrm, wasn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u113	I don't know by heart. I have to come back to that in the second term. The Ruys Committee will certainly have looked into this. Mrs Van Engelshoven was the first to discuss the division of roles between the central works council and the trade unions. This division of roles is one of the subjects on which the Ruys Committee says that the Ministry has failed to define it clearly and to make it smooth. The Ruys Committee also notes that attempts have been made. In 2013, two advisors were asked to accompany. This could not be done until 2013, because no irreversible steps could be taken before Parliament's approval. That guidance was requested because the problem was in the picture. Following a further increase in the scale of the problems, Mr Borstlap was asked to make a proposal to regulate this relationship between the central works council and the trade unions. At the same time, it is a very complicated job, but I would like to do my utmost to make it work. It is so complicated, not only in the national police but in many organisations, because there is a deep tension between trade unions and the works council: because they can get into each other's fields, there is more often a discussion about who is talking about what. In the case of the national police, the formation of the national police made the role of the central works council much greater. Before that time there was no central entrepreneurial council, so almost everything was discussed with the trade unions at national level. As a result of the creation of a national police force, under the Works Councils Act, many advisory powers and assent powers are transferred to the central works council and not to the trade union. That's a painful process. This is about the complexity I was talking about. I come now to the role of the Minister. Inevitably, there are situations in which the minister works well with trade unions and participation on the way to a common outcome, and situations in which you stand against each other. In particular, when it comes to wage demands or the precise implementation of reorganisations, employers and employees do not necessarily agree with each other from the outset. The Ruys Committee shall examine the progress of each request for an opinion. Then you can see that there was initially a rejection, I believe that even with every request for advice, there was agreement after further discussion and adjustment. In a relationship in which you are confronted with a great deal of regularity, it is, of course, even more complicated to accompany the smooth running between a trade union and the works council at the same time. The importance is big enough. That is why, on the basis of Mr Borstlap's recommendations, we will make every effort from the Ministry and the police to reach good agreements once a new works council has been elected this autumn. But, of course, I'm dependent on two partners here. So I'm going to do my utmost in a complicated situation. Mrs Van Engelshoven asked whether the supervision of the central works council's finances should not be subject to appropriate procedures. The current Chief of Staff has now taken steps to strengthen the supervision of the central works council's finances. Finally, Ms Van Engelshoven asked whether the formation of the national police force would succeed in getting the basis in order by the end of 2017, or whether more time would be needed. Mrs van Engelshoven understands that I do not yet have a complete picture, because there are still two important reports coming. But I do have my own picture of the state of affairs. My own view is that very great progress has been made, but inevitably I will show parts of which I myself, and the Chamber will undoubtedly say with me, yes, that is not yet where I want it to be. I will deal with Mr Hiddema's questions on absenteeism later. It won't be perfect. At the same time, I have the impression that there has been so much progress that we are really dealing with a much better organisation than one or two years ago. I come now to Mr Van Raak. He began by asking whether the concept of corruption used in the report is not too narrow. Mr Ruys has set out very carefully how he has sought possible coherence between the opinions issued by the works council and the granting of consent and the making available of money and facilities. That's also in line with the research question he started. That is a very delicate question, because corruption is, of course, one of the most serious accusations you can make. To give a good answer to that, you have to formulate very well in advance what you want to know exactly from the research. This is also at the beginning of the Ruys Committee's report: "the conduct of the Chief of Staff in the field of finance or otherwise in his relationship with the (chairman of the) central works council has had an influence on decision-making or decision-making. advice by the central works council and, if so, which." So the question that was asked in every detail was: have decisions actually been bought? Mr Ruys is convincingly saying no to that. I think that his answer to that question is well founded, precisely because he really shows by advice how things turned out and what came out of it. I also share his answer to that question. Mr Van Raak also asks about culture. The chairman already pointed it out. His first question is why the national police did not contribute to the improvement of culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr Van Raak has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u115	No, no, never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u116	Oh, you're walking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u117	No, I thought I'd stand with Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u118	That's very sweet. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u119	The argument that "culture" has not improved is too general. I have just said that when you ask a question about a very sensitive subject like corruption, you have to put it very precisely at what point you say: there is corruption here. Similarly, the concept of culture is too broad to say that nothing has changed in culture. Much has changed in culture. The reason for the formation of the national police was, on the one hand, the changing crime, although at that time it was even less acute than it is now, and, on the other hand, the existence of a large number of abuses in the old police. These were partly due to inefficiency in terms of procurement and ICT, but partly also to culture. There were too many separate islands and there was too little cooperation. This made it difficult to quickly call on each other or to share information across different corpses. That culture has really changed. This does not mean that there are now no cultural problems which in part existed at that time. But you can't say in general that "culture" hasn't improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u120	The report we're discussing today is about the central works council. It shows that there is a very bad governance culture there. In all the other places, we didn't do that investigation. My first question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to investigate the administrative culture, not only with the central works council but with the entire national police force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u121	That investigation has been carried out, and so has the Chamber. A WODC study on culture was carried out in 2016. That's what the Chamber got. That investigation also outlined the picture I gave earlier this afternoon, which we are dealing with a national police force on which we can be very proud for many reasons, but the strength of which also contains a number of weaknesses. Where we can be so proud of the collegiality and commitment of our policemen and women and the trust they have among themselves: if we stand together in a dark alley between all drunken people we can blindly rely on each other, that blind trust also has a downside. That downside is that if your colleague does something that really can't be done, then you don't address that colleague and if that doesn't change yet, you say to that colleague: I really need to report this to the chief, I'd rather you do it or we go together, but this can't be done anymore. Those two sides of the medal are reflected in the WODC report. That is also the important reason why I have spoken here today and earlier about the importance of diversity, about the steps the Chief Constable has taken and is going to take to change that culture in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u122	I'm not just talking about the way whistleblowers are handled. By the way, it has been dealt with scandalously. I hope that this has really changed and that the Minister will see to it. But it's about a different culture, the governance culture. Our own investigation shows that 80% of the policemen say the police department doesn't know what's going on in the workplace. 81% say the working method has become less efficient. 85% claim that the quality has decreased. Those are big results. Is the Minister prepared to carry out a general study of culture, administrative culture, national police in the evaluation that is now coming, or if it is not in it, apart from that? That was one of the many promises made at the start of the national police force. Is the Minister prepared to look at that promise as well, a promise made by the Ministry to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u123	Culture was not one of the objectives of the formation of the national police. This does not mean that the issue of culture is not very important, but it was not one of the objectives. I cannot change the evaluation that Mr Kuik and his people are putting the finishing touches to now. That would be really irresponsible. The fact that the Chamber received a study of culture from the WODC in 2016 shows that the subject at that time, as it is now, demanded great attention and that there is also openness about it. The examination of the SP is the subject of my next reply to Mr Van Raak. I always admire the way in which the SP, now with the police, but also in the past in many other areas, conducts surveys and investigations. I always notice that the SP doesn't necessarily pick out the sun tomatoes to pull soup from. Fortunately, the national police regularly conduct employee satisfaction surveys. That's the way it's supposed to be. The latest employee satisfaction survey from 2016 says that 86% of employees are very proud of their work. I also think it is important that we take that measurement and, therefore, draw lessons from the 14% that does not indicate this, but such a survey that we do periodically does not reveal such a black picture as the SP is able to sketch with its research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u124	"I am a positive person and proud of my colleagues, but I am afraid of myself when I see how negative I have filled in the answers above." This was a response from a cop. Cops are proud of the police, but they can't do their job in these organizations. That has to do with the governance culture at the top. I find it quite remarkable that the Minister denies that cultural change was one of the objectives of the national police. My group, the SP, has always made this a condition from the outset. If the Minister cannot promise here that this administrative culture in the national police force is an extensive part of the evaluation, then I am afraid that we as the House of Representatives will have to get to work ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u125	I hope that Mr Van Raak agrees with me that you will have an irresponsible outcome if you ask a group of researchers who have been working for a long time to add another topic to the report just before the finalisation of the report. I come now to Mrs Özütok's questions. She first asked for a response to Mr Ruys' conclusion on speed. I've already answered that question in the event of interruption. I also answered the question about the Ruys Committee's opinion on influence, in the direction of Mr Van Raak. Ms Özütok asked if the national police needed their own supervisory board. Police supervision is currently taking place along a number of routes. I already went into the inspection and the General Court of Auditors. I also mentioned the ADR towards Mr Azarkan. In addition, there are two specific committees, namely a review board for the ICT attack programme and a supervisory committee for police management. I think you should then streamline, because a lot of supervision has already been set up, but whether or not it would be useful for the future to have a supervisory board, I find a logical question to answer on the basis of the report of the Kuijken Committee. That is an excellent report which will answer that question. This question will undoubtedly also be addressed in the cabinet response to that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u126	Do I understand from this that the Minister is willing to look at this whole supervisory structure with regard to the police organisation? That's what it's been for me to do. I've prepared a joint motion with Mrs. Chicken. The point is that there is supervision close to the corps leadership, which can give advice by means of action and advice, not only to organise supervision but also to show ways to find solutions. That's what I meant by a supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u127	On the question of whether I want to look at the arrangement of supervision, the answer is yes. I really want to come back to that when I have the report from the Kuijken Committee. Otherwise, I would probably not use a very valuable report for the answer to this legitimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u128	That seems reasonable to me, but I think it is good to record the following in the Acts. It is, of course, about streamlining, because I know that a lot of supervision has already been set up. I would also like to stress that it is not so much on our own. These are the suggestions that come to us from the outside world, that the Chief Constable and his actions should be able to do without being far removed from them or standing next to the Minister. Control should be right next to the police department, next to the chief of police. That's just for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u129	I understand the picture that Mrs Özütok and Mrs Kuik have in mind, not only from a control tower, but also with advice and deed. Once again, I will come back to it as soon as you and I have the report from the Kuiken Committee. Ms Özütok commented on the timing of events, and on informing the Ministry and the Chamber. Mr Ruys clearly stated in his report that at the end of 2015 the Ministry was informed about the problems that had arisen and that it became clear at the end of March 2016 that the agreement with the Cor had not yet been evaluated. At that time, the signal was sent to the Minister, who also sent it to the Chamber. The chief of police ordered the internal investigation at that time. So I do not see any gaps in the time lag between the moment the ministry received the signals, that additional investigations have been initiated and that the Chamber has been informed. Mr Azarkan asked: how do we get back the money that was wrongly spent? As Mr Azarkan knows, there is a criminal route. As long as this is going on, I cannot make any announcement about any punishment or any duty of reimbursement on the basis of the criminal journey. In addition, the Chief Constable has taken disciplinary action. I have just indicated that the discussions with the members of the works council at the time are closely monitored, in the terms of Mr Van Dam, whether the declarations or consumptions give rise to the request for reimbursement. So we do have that on the retina, without me being able to indicate exactly what amounts are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Van Dam, the Minister has just answered a question from Mr Azarkan. You would like to ask a question about what Mr Azarkan has asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The last thing I want to do is defy you, but I do have a question about this. I understand that people will still be addressed. What struck me in the report is that the chairman of the Central Works Council was approached by the Head of Unity of Amsterdam following an incident of domestic violence. After that, all things have happened, such as payroll and so on, which have been discussed at national level. Can the Minister promise that this will be coordinated within the Corps in the further course? Those people are from units, too. I think it is valuable that any refund measures and so on are taken in one place in the Corps. This shouldn't go through the force in some kind of cloud.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yes, that is coordinated within the Corps, with the note that the criminal route is a separate route, as it should be. Mr Azarkan asked me to deal with the macho culture. I hope that with the answers I have given, I have also answered this question from Mr Azarkan. Mr Azarkan asked: do you think that the Minister of Justice is to blame? I have indicated that I agree with Mr Ruys' conclusion that financial supervision was insufficient. That is a reproach to myself as a responsible minister. I also agree with the conclusion already reached in 2015 that the scope and pace of the whole operation were too ambitious. So, yeah, that certainly didn't go smoothly. It is now up to me to take responsibility for this and to ensure that the right steps are taken. Then I come to Mrs Kuik's question. I answered her first question in the event of interruption. That was about the Supervisory Board. Mrs Kuik asked me to fill out how culture is changed specifically when it comes to managing. This is done by conducting two-day conversations with all 800 national police leaders at the Police Academy, focusing on manners and integrity, from the point of view I mentioned earlier. Leaders must then make this possible again with their people, live ahead and keep coming back to it. Mr Bishop asked me to go into the timeline. I hope I just answered that question. The same applies to his question on financial control. I also hope to have answered his question about the tense relationship between the central works council and the trade unions. In addition, he asked whether I have the idea that these relations are now good or problem-free. My answer to that is that improvements are really visible. I have already discussed the strengthening of the control of the central works council and the new business agreement that is to be concluded. It is not the case that the relationship between the works council and the trade unions is now stress-free. I also indicated that I would like to try this out of all my power, that I cannot guarantee that I will be able to do that, but that we are really going to do our best to do that. Mrs Tellegen asked me to comment on the extent of the waste. If you look at the funds available for participation, Mr.Hiddema also mentioned this in the 2013-2016 period, it was around 6 million in total. This does not mean that all this is wasted, because it fits within the work of a works council to, for example, hire external expertise. Without that opportunity and the finances before that, they could really not do their job properly. What is specifically addressed, and what the care is about, are expenses for meeting expenses and events. These total €600,000 over this period. In this context, discussions with former members of the works council are now looking into whether and how much of this can be recovered. In discussions with suppliers, it is also examined whether the contract was legally binding. Mrs Tellegen also asked whether I am convinced that the control of the expenditure of the central works council is now well regulated. My answer to that is a definite yes. I have already addressed Mr Azarkan's question on the possibilities for reimbursement. Mrs Tellegen asked me to make a comparison between the provisions of the central works council of the national police and the other works councils of the national government. The Chief Constable had that comparison made and clearly concluded that the provisions were wider than what is customary within the government. So he has also announced that he wants to make more sober agreements about this. So that was just not right, while of course you can make a comparison between the type of work a central works council does with the police and what a central works council does with, for example, the Judicial Institutions Service or any other government or even semi-public organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mrs. Tellegen wants to interrupt from her place. She uses a special microphone for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yeah, it's a novel. It is an unprecedented luxury to be allowed to interrupt from this place. Thank you for that, Mr President. I do have a question about this. The National Audit Service has also noted that there is much wider facilitation in the national police corps than in other similar works councils. Then how are the others gonna compare? Are they more comparable and was the central works council of the police really an outburst in that whole? In other words, is there some kind of mold from the state service in which these works councils are poured? What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u135	The chief of police, looking back, made a comparison. He looked at the facilities in the sense of money, time and support that the central works council has with the police in comparison to participation in other government organisations. That comparison showed that the facilities in the police were simply much wider. It's not like there's one central standard in government institutions. Then the equation didn't have to be made. Then you could at most have noticed... which would also not be good.. that more than that standard was issued. But there isn't such a central mould. Mr. Hiddema asked about absenteeism in the national police. The figures for the first six months of this year show a 7% absenteeism. This is stable compared to last year, but I have also said before in the Chamber that the level of absenteeism is really a subject of concern to me. The type of work the police have to deal with is heavy and incriminating. I realize that. But absenteeism is an incredibly important subject, because it concerns people, precious people, precious employees, who you give all the good you want and who you also want to be able to use for their important work. That's why the question of what we can do to bring the absenteeism back is a permanent issue in the conversations between me and the corps. Mr Hiddema asked what a central works council is doing and what they need so much money for. I have just indicated to Mrs Tellegen what budget was available. It's largely explainable because of the complex work they do. But to some extent it has been clearly irresponsible. Mr Hiddema asked how many employees are currently suing the employer. He is undoubtedly referring to a recent publication of the trade unions on this subject. There are currently 2,700 appeals under the new office house. That is a considerable number. At the same time, staff relations in a government organisation such as the police are also very formalized and judicialized. I can't imagine a lot of companies where you can file an appeal against your position. I do not want to say that this is not appropriate within a government organisation, but it does lead to much more judicialised relations than is the case in a large part of the labour market. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you. I see Mr Hiddema walking to the interrupting microphone for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u137	I thank the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u138	You need to hold the button down. Otherwise the microphone won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u139	I thank the Minister for his reply. The debate was about the climate and culture within the police. I thought it was kind of abstract. So I asked about absenteeism and the mood in the workplace. Is this the most up-to-date state of affairs? I'm sure I do. Or does the Minister rely on last year's data?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u140	I mentioned that 7%. That percentage was in the first half of 2017. There's no such thing as more up-to-date than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u141	I am very pleased with that, at least with this answer. There are 2,700 trials against the employer. Does the Minister share my view that this is not nauseous within an organization which should be of work content and joy? Has the Minister shown that these processes are linked to the reorganisations? Are these people usually sick?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u142	I was hoping to have answered that by stating that within the government the placement in a position is a very justified process. After a reorganisation, people can formally appeal against the placement in a new position. When it comes to labour law, Mr Hiddema may have a little more business as a reference framework. There, no one will soon start legal proceedings about their individual placement. On the question of whether it is linked to the reorganisation, I answer "yes." Do I find the number high? It stems from the highly formalized and judicialized way in which industrial relations within the government are regulated. Do I think we should get out of here fast? Yes, of course, because in my opinion, no one is happy with legal procedures. That's a sensitive answer to a lawyer. Hardly anyone is happy with legal procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u143	That's a nuance. Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u144	It kind of depends on the hourly rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u145	My attempt was to find out if you know how many of those who conduct those trials are also part of the 7% who are ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u146	There'll be a overlap, but how big that overlap is, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u147	I had a third question. You haven't answered that yet. I understand from the Ruys Committee's report that there were alarm signals at the Ministry before April 2016. I said that the report does not contain any further information. Is the Minister able to do the content of this report by letter to the Chamber so that we know what was already known at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u148	The Ruys Committee is very much in favour of this. By the end of 2015, there were the first signals, which increased sharply in 2016. At that time, they also communicated with the Minister and the Chamber. As Mr Ruys is very keen on it, it seems to me that it would go a long way to carry out a whole exercise on e-mails which should or should not be considered whether they are personal policy ideas and stack them on top of the Ruys Committee. I have no reason to believe that the Ruys Committee has not done its job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u149	I won't. I am not questioning at all the observation that these reports were there. I'm just asking what the content of those reports was. Were those fraud reports or fraud rumors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u150	I think Mr Ruys was here yesterday. Actually, it would have been easier to ask him this. Really every phone call and e-mail in the ministry is my political responsibility, but I'm not always there. I don't know the exact contents. Mr Ruys has researched this, but I have no reason to believe that he has not done his research properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u151	Finally, Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u152	The Minister is well aware of the responsibility of the government for the policy of the previous ministers. If you then take note of the findings of Mr Ruys, who says that in 2016 alarm bells went off on the basis of what I think might be fraud reports, my first question as the newest minister would be: "What happened then? Soon I'll get questions about fraud." That is why I ask the Minister: do you know what happened then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u153	Sure, but that's what the Ruys Committee describes. He says that the first signals were there at the end of 2015. After that, there were successive signals, which became more and more concrete in early 2016. At that time, action was taken, both by the minister and by the corps leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you. There is also a second term, Mr Hiddema. I note that there is a need for this. We shall now proceed to the second term and I shall give the floor to Mr Van Dam. Speaking time shall be one minute and twenty seconds, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to make a few points. I note that there is a full and comprehensive report from the Ruys Committee. I note that the Minister accepts the conclusions. I also note that the Minister clearly endorses the conclusion that has been reached here earlier, namely that things have gone too fast, too fast and with too much pressure. I also note that the Chief Constable is acting visibly in line with the conclusions of the report. I therefore believe that I am prepared to turn this black page into the history of the national police. The next page we are going to is, of course, the evaluation of the national police. There's a lot of talk about that. I believe that the Ruys Committee's report contains many conclusions and observations which are very important for the evaluation of the national police. What doesn't help is a complaint report from the SP. When you ask people "you got something to complain about," it's pretty logical that they're all gonna complain. I would like to invite the SP to ask for a positive report. Maybe that'll help. What also doesn't help is you-bake, which I heard a bit with the representative of D66, in the vein of: what was your role and what was your role? It helps that all concerned look in the mirror in the coming time. As far as I'm concerned, the Chamber can do the same. This should be the starting point for the evaluation of the national police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u156	I think Mr Van Dam is a fine example of the culture in the police. When more than 1,600 agents are asked questions and sometimes they themselves say that they are afraid of their answers but have given an answer in conscience, they are dismissed as complainants. I am afraid that Mr Van Dam here today indicates that he is not part of the solution for the national police but that he has always been part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u157	I have a report from the Central Bureau of Statistics which shows that 67.7% of Dutch people have confidence in the police and 36.3% in politics. I therefore believe that we need to be a little cautious in dealing with major conclusions in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive and clear answers. We have heard the Minister say that it is still wise that a national police has been chosen, and I fully agree with him. I said that also in the first term and in response to an interruption. The Minister also said: reorganisations are generally a firm but responsible pace, where the pace was too high. Not irresponsible, but too high: I agree with the Minister. I do not agree with the Minister on the link with the targets, the 9% cut. Anyway, that happened under Rutte II. It was nearly 0.5 billion in a budget of 5.5 billion, of which more than 4 billion is committed to personnel costs. So I disagree with the Minister, but we have the budget debates for that. Steps have also been taken, as the Minister said, by himself and the Chief Constable. He mentioned the control of the expenditure of the new central works council. The Minister replied to a question on this: yes, that control has improved. There will be a new agreement with the Cor after the Chief of Staff's judgment that the Cor was more generous in resources than was customary at central works councils. Further steps have been and are being taken in the field of cultural change that we have all talked about. It starts at the summit. I also said that we must learn lessons from the past. I want to do that, too. I was in the Rutte I talks about the establishment of the national police. I still think that it is sensible, but I also think that we should be cautious now. I would therefore like to await the steps that are being taken. I also await the evaluation of the Police Act and look forward in confidence to a beautiful organisation that is now going to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We discussed the Ruys Committee's report today and I think it is very good that the conclusions of the report are broadly endorsed here, including by the Minister. It is also good that the Minister acknowledged that the start-up of the national police had too many ambitions and went too fast. We can all learn from that, too. It is also a good thing that the Minister here has acknowledged that from day one there should have been one more attention from the Minister to financial supervision and to the financial management of the national police. It is good that the Minister now says: I am now informed about this once every four months and I am really on top of that. There has also been talk of the inflamed tensions between unions and participation. I see, like the Minister, that this is very difficult and that you don't just solve it. It is good that he pays attention to this and that attention is also paid to it now that the new works council is starting this autumn. I would like to say to all of them from here: "You are all here to serve the interests of the organisation and of the agent on the street. It should not be about the position of either the union or the works council, but about the agent on the street." It is a good thing that measures have been taken to ensure that financial management is in order. The minister says we're not there yet. I asked if we're going to make it at this rate in 2017. What concerns me is perhaps the Minister's intention to deal with this in the second term. It is that he is not yet able to indicate exactly where we are not yet there. It is now at the end of September, the end of this year is approaching, and the minister in control should be now. Can he go into that in the second term? Thank you for the answers given by the Minister in the field of culture and also for recognising that a more diverse body can also help to solve the cultural issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u163	Finally, if I may respond to Mr Van Dam. What I did, namely asking for everyone's role, is not you; it is fulfilling your role as a parliamentarians and making it clear in the debate how the responsibilities lay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u165	The national police are a new structure, but it was a new culture and I am shocked when the Minister says that this administrative culture is not included in the evaluation. That's why we all wanted a new police force. Then what exactly is the problem? That cops don't get heard, don't get involved. That their experiences, their proposals are not taken on board. That more than 1,600 agents who are very genuinely expressing their concerns are dismissed as complainants, as by Mr. Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. That's the problem! This cultural change must take place with the national police. I hope, however, that the Minister is prepared to pay attention to this in the context of the evaluation and to ensure that this culture is finally changed. Because we are now five years ahead and the national police are not a success at the moment, as the answers of those more than 1,600 officers also show. I also hope that the Minister can start by answering these concerns and that he can send us that response for the security and justice budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u166	From the great appreciation I have for Mr Van Raak's commitment to the national police, I would like to say quite specifically what I mean. I do not think there are 1,600 people to be found in the national police, but perhaps even more, who are bothered and have a negative opinion. What you are doing is putting in a report here in the debate, with a hint of: this is the image of the national police. I object to that. I have seen how you have called on people to respond to that survey, and that was not directly an invitation in a neutral sense to give an opinion on the national police. And I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u167	Mr Van Dam must learn that he has to read something before he comes to judgment. The questions we have asked are: has anything changed since the arrival of the national police force in terms of the quality of service to the citizen? Since the arrival of the national police, has anything changed in the way Dutch police work? Can I always have a police vehicle if I have to? Are the information systems I have to work with in order? Those are all perfectly normal questions that I ask at every job visit to cops. We've put it in front of all the cops. If cops answer that and Mr Van Dam doesn't like it, he says those people are whining. That is exactly the problem we have with the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u168	I see you think you're ready, Mr Van Raak, but wait a little longer. Mrs Tellegen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr Van Raak rightly says that the culture within the police still needs to be changed. That is what Mr Ruys says in the report, and the Minister has certainly not denied it today. My question is whether Mr Van Raak agrees with me that a change of culture within a large organisation such as the police could be better organised from the inside, as the Chief Constable has now taken many initiatives, rather than that we are going to impose it here from the Chamber or from the courtroom to which Mr Van Raak calls the Minister from above. That's not the culture change we all have in mind, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u170	Sometimes it takes pressure from the outside too. I remember agreeing with the Chamber that the coupon quotas should be abolished, while in each office coupon quotas were maintained. At that time, together with the Minister, I put the bat on it all the time. Eventually, over time, culture has changed. So yes, culture change has to come from within, unless it doesn't come. One of the conditions that we as SP have set is that a new national police with a new administrative culture cannot be with the same people. I see that many of the same people or similar people have returned to high positions. As a House of Representatives, we have a responsibility to investigate this. Why was the organisation of the national police not chosen for new people, new competences, a different culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply and also for his commitment to look at the supervisory structure. A monitoring body which can assist the department by advice and action is necessary. I hope to be able to get back to that in the evaluation. I also expect the Minister to come back to that. We have all spoken today about culture. Culture is what you make with each other. A desired culture with sufficient self-correcting capacity really requires extra commitment from everyone and a leading role of the leadership. If I have heard the Minister correctly, he is following with interest the initiatives of the corps leadership. I would like to ask him if he is prepared to share with us the improvement process that the corps leadership has deployed in this area. As far as I am concerned, this can be included in the report of the Chicken Committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, I do not have the right feeling on a number of parts. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on behalf of the Ruys Commission, the Audit Service carried out an investigation into the finances of the national police central works council;]] [[noting that the first conclusion of the Ruys Commission was that "in establishing national police financial management and control was not a priority';]] [[noting that the financial problems are thus possible organisation-wide rather than only with the central works council;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a detailed investigation into the finances of the entire national police force and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report of the Ruys Commission showed that the former chairman of the national police central works council had an unlawful pattern of spending;]] [[calls on the Government to file a claim against the former chairman of the national police central works council to recover as much of the unlawful expenditure on him as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make it a standard policy to file claims against directors and employees in the public and semi-public sectors who are guilty of significant fraud, so that society gets back as much of the wasted taxpayers' money as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-122]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-123]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u175	And last but not least. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report of the Ruys Commission showed that a police supervisor tried to report the abuses to the national police central works council and found no response to them;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that reports of abuses made at ministries are dealt with by these ministries and to inform the Minister concerned about the notifications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. Thank you also for the commitment to look carefully at the supervisory structure and its streamlining in the evaluation of the national police, in particular as regards the support of the Chief of Staff himself. Mr. Chairman. Actually, we've only discussed a very small part of the national police. All this will come back in detail; I would also like to say to the colleague of the SP that you have examined in your survey. Of course, there are all the elements that we recognize, in terms of driving times, workload, absenteeism, money, sufficient or insufficient people behind the desks, capacity and qualities that are needed. In short, this will be a very detailed evaluation, with several partial reports. It is also a good thing that we in the Chamber look carefully at how we are going to do this with each other, with the aim of improving the police, giving them the appreciation they need and also supporting them politically so that they can do their job properly and we are not bothering them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you. Then Mrs. Tellegen. It's 1 minute and 20 seconds, so I don't want to do it to you to get to the speaker chair. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With Ruys' report in hand today, the VVD was particularly concerned with how the police could better organise participation in the future. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the chairman and secretary of the central works council were in the works council full-time because they were exempt from regular work;]] [[noting that Cor-members and their chairman were sometimes on works councils for years;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that a works council should be well embedded and keep in touch with colleagues on the work floor, and that years of full-time work in the works council do not contribute to this;]] [[calls on the government to ask the corps management and works council to submit proposals on the investment of time by the chairman and other members of the works council in order to ensure better connection with the workplace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u179	I've got another one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a director has a double role in which he must appeal to both the works council on financial management but also require the agreement of the same or;]] [[noting that there are differences within the government in the way in which an or is designed and the facilities it receives;]] [[Whereas this double roll of the driver creates a tension field;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of harmonising fees, facilities and other support for participation in cabinet sectors, so that negotiations on this matter do not have to take place by organisation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. Briefly, some insights on the basis of the debate we have just had. With the police, with the national police, as far as I'm concerned, code red applies. What has been the outcome of the debate? 2.700 legal battles in the workplace with the police and 7% of staff absent from the workplace with the police. One connects it to the other. That is all, being sick, being absent and litigating each other to pieces, because of the introduction of the national police as it has so far taken shape. We shall see what the evaluation provides for insights into this rather dramatic presentation of things. May I, through the Minister's input, know with what malpractices the Ministry became aware of in 2016 as recalled by the Ruys Committee, but in which we do not know the content of the events? Surely this should be made public in a simple letter in the global sense along the way of the Minister as he sits here? He has a right to be responsible for this, and he knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you. I'll see if the minister needs a brief suspension. Or could he respond directly and respond to the motions that have been tabled? That's the case. I see he's already got all the motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam notes with me that I agree with all the conclusions of the Ruys Committee and will take the necessary measures. I agree with him that we should turn this black page now and work towards a healthy national police force. Mrs Helder also endorsed the conclusions, but would have preferred that there had been no cuts. I can't reverse history. But indeed, this year too, there is a budget debate. Mrs Van Engelshoven shared with me the conclusions of the Ruys Committee and also the critical remarks made to me as responsible minister. However, she asked for further details on which areas the basis is not yet in order. Which one do I foresee? I mentioned all the absenteeism. When it comes to culture, I see important changes, but if I thought it was in order, I would not have talked here about the measures that are still being taken there. I also mention diversity. We have talked about this a number of times. And the Chamber has had a report from me earlier on capacity management, so people's commitment. That is actually a very important part of the national police. That too is not yet in order. If I mention this like that, it looks like a whole list. At the same time, fortunately, I have been able to tell a lot about these beautiful iPhones. I have also been able to report successes about, for example, the handling of cybercrime and the way in which the dark web has been accessed and then a lot of success has been achieved. We have recently received information about the smart way criminals who thought they could safely call each other through the Pretty-Good-Privacy protocols can now be prosecuted. So fortunately there is also a lot of good news. But there are a number of points where there will undoubtedly still be work to be done. Mr Van Raak mentioned once again, in his well-known way, the opinion that the administrative culture was the reason for the formation of the national police. That wasn't the reason, but there were a lot of reasons. I've gone into that in detail. That does not alter the fact that I do think this culture is important, and I have gone into this in detail. I also find his statement that the national police are not successful far too short. Much remains to be done, but it was the right decision to take this road. Mrs Özütok had another answer to her question as to whether, in the specific case of the promotion mentioned by the Ruys Committee, there was an opinion from staff. That was not the case. So that didn't go well. Indeed, I will come back to the supervision, and more specifically to the added value of a supervisory board as soon as the report of the Kuijken Committee is available. Ms Özütok also asked the Chamber to inform about the progress of cultural change. I'd be happy to. The Chamber also receives regular progress letters. So I'll take that on my own. Mr Azarkan has tabled a number of motions. The first calls on the government to carry out a detailed investigation into the finances of the entire national police force and to inform the Chamber. This has happened repeatedly in the recent past. The Chamber has received a report prepared under the direction of Mr André de Jong, former Director-General of the National Budget. This has led to an increase in the budget and an investigation into staff and equipment, which has been prepared by a consultancy firm. This has also led to the strengthening of financial control. Moreover, the Court of Auditors receives annual accounts which the General Court also looks at. So this first motion I'm not suggesting. I wouldn't want to start an investigation into that. Then the motion to part No. 123: "(...) requests the government to file a claim against the former chairman of the national police central works council to recover as much as possible of the unlawful expenditure on him." I think it would be unwise to move on to an individual case where there is now a criminal procedure. For this reason, I would like to discourage the motion and have confidence in the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Mr Azarkan's motion for a resolution 124 asks the government to make it a standard policy to file claims against directors and employees in the public and semi-public sectors who are guilty of significant fraud, so that society gets back as much of the wasted taxpayers' money as possible. I agree with Mr Azarkan that this should be the main line. I'm just so afraid that if you formulate such a motion, in a case where there may be a good reason to choose another course of action because there was evidence of what would be called coercion, error, deceit, or in which someone is powerless to pay in advance, that is impossible. In short, the absoluteness of the motion goes a little too far for me, but I would like to say to Mr Azarkan that this is the main line of the effort. But the motion so, in this form, I advise against. Then the motion to part No. 125: "(...) calls on the government to report abuses committed at ministries to be dealt with by these ministries and to inform the minister concerned about the reports." This too is quite absolute. Because of course it is certainly the main line to deal with reports, but there are sometimes confused people in the Netherlands who do reports where it is wise to do something else with them. If all these reports go to the minister, he won't have time for the rest of his work. This motion, too, is so absolute that I must discourage it. Then Mrs. Chicken. I will indeed come back to the supervision of the national police on the basis of the report of the Chicken Commission. Mrs Tellegen has tabled a motion with Mr Van Dam asking the government to ask the corps management and works council to submit proposals on the investment of time by the chairman and other members of the works council in order to ensure better connection with the workplace. I am happy to take on that task, so I would like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. In her second motion, in part No. 127, states: "(...) asks the government to examine the possibility of harmonising fees, facilities and other support for participation in the cabinet sectors, so that negotiations on this matter do not have to take place by organisation." The motion calls for an investigation. In view of the discussion we have had on this subject, I would also like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-8.u184	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs and the staff.
