ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on treatment stops in the ggz. The debate was requested by Mrs Ellemeet on 5 September in the organisation of work and supported by at least 30 Members. Mrs Ellemeet is therefore also the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. Every speaker has three minutes' speaking time. Go ahead, Mrs. Ellemeet. You're from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good care is a great asset in our country. If you break your leg, you usually get quick and good help. In the case of mental health care, this is not always the case. There are long waiting lists. Sometimes the waiting time standards are even exceeded. In addition, we now see every year that institutions providing mental health care must threaten treatment stops because the health insurance company no longer pays. You'll have to deal with mental problems, open the newspaper and read that no more ggz care is provided. And why? Can it be explained that the ggz institution refuses patients because the so-called treatment ceiling has been reached? In the cases of Emergis and Accare, I wonder: did the healthcare provider not ring the bell in time or did the health insurance provider not wish to conclude new contracts? Do we know what the problem is? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The lack of good contractual arrangements between healthcare providers and insurers, and their interim adjustment, is a problem. The contract they have does not reflect the dynamics of the ggz, which does not respond well to healthcare consumption. Does the Minister recognize this problem? How is the Minister going to ensure better cooperation and a mid-term review of the estimates? The Minister will probably refer to the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa), but he was involved too late in the aforementioned cases. How can the Dutch Healthcare Authority improve its role in this and take it up earlier? Can we use a reporting obligation for providers when a treatment ceiling is threatened to be reached to ensure that the NZa can act better and earlier? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know from the Minister what are the underlying causes of the poorly assessed contractual arrangements. Is it true that insurers often buy too little care because they base their estimates on previous years, while the care questions are now more complex, which means that the budget is rather exhausted? Is this demand for more complex care due to care avoidance? Or is there a capacity problem? In short, can the Minister explain why the contracting policy is not working properly in practice? If not, is it prepared to evaluate that? Mr. Chairman. This is perhaps the last debate of this minister with the House of Representatives on the ggz. In an interview last weekend, the Minister said that she thinks it's crazy that people who are mentally serious can't get help right away, while there is enough money. Finally, I would ask the Minister to go into the letter on resolving the waiting lists she sent us in July. Can she make what needs to be done more specific? Would it be a solution to introduce sanctions for exceeding the waiting time standards? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. As the second speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Kooiman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. If you're in psychological distress and you need help, you're gonna find yourself in front of a closed door. Among other things, Emergis, Pro Persona, GGZ Friesland and Accare, all major ggz institutions, have had to announce a treatment stop, which is causing the most vulnerable patients to suffer. A solution to prevent this from happening was indicated by the Minister last week that it is actually very far away in practice. That is very worrying, because a long waiting period means suffering for a lot of patients and can lead to mental damage, sometimes even suicide attempts. What's going on? I have only called the institutions in question myself. This is what they're saying. The institutions receive much more patients and the patients they receive are particularly more complex. So much more care is needed than the insurers had previously budgeted and paid for. But now that unexpectedly more complex care is needed, a number of health insurance companies say: no, ggz institution, you may be delivering more care, but we don't pay for that care. With this, the health insurance provider sits on the treatment chair, and that is only to be called "sick." Insurers who go for cheap and do not look at what is needed, that is to say "failed market operation." It's not like the money isn't there. After all, health insurers left almost 300 million on the shelf last year. Why, in particular, do large health insurance companies refuse to buy this care? Also, I was not pleased with the Minister's note, which referred to the institution, the health insurance companies and the Dutch Health Authority to solve the problem. The Minister then threatens that institutions should not stand up for a patient in the media. Doesn't the Minister see that institutions stand against the wall with their backs? And is it not aware of the duty of care and the fact that it is actually a system responsible? How is she going to ensure, for example, compliance with care obligations? That is not only achieved by pointing to other bodies and saying that they have to solve this. What's she gonna do to pick this up? How does it ensure that the Dutch Healthcare Authority, the authority that should intervene but does not yet do enough, becomes a real watchdog instead of a waggering labrador? It is also important that free choice of doctors is at stake. All threatening treatment stops endanger the free choice of doctors for patients with a refund policy. How is the Minister going to ensure that patients can continue to choose where they are being treated? The same applies to small-scale practices. They don't have the ability to negotiate with the health insurance company. They simply get a piece of paper under their noses and have to sign at the cross. This strangulation ceiling prevents doctors from treating or turning in thousands of euros if they do. This increases waiting times. Finally. I don't want to see this minister's finger ringing today, but an outstretched hand, making sure that patients are just being helped back in the place they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the patient stop at Emergis has been lifted, but this problem keeps coming back. Conflicts about money between directors, insurers and providers are fought over the backs of patients through the media. Not only a patient stop in itself is unacceptable, threatening a patient stop is unacceptable. Whoever is right or wrong doesn't matter in that respect. This kind of power play doesn't belong, not over patients' backs. There must never be any refusal of a patient because of his policy or his health insurance provider. Basic insurance is the same for everyone. Those who need care should be treated as soon as possible. If you are insured, you have access to the basic package. The NZa as a supervisor is supposed to protect patients' interests. I therefore expect the Dutch Healthcare Authority to be proactive when it comes to monitoring access to care. That means, before this kind of display gets into the media. The Healthcare Authority, like the inspection, needs to show her teeth a little more often. Does the Minister agree with this? Is it prepared to urge the Dutch Healthcare Authority to act more quickly in the event of imminent payment disputes? How else does the Minister intend to prevent us from having another debate here next week, the next week and the week after that, because there are patient stops being announced elsewhere in the country? We have criticized the process of buying care before. In doing so, we have tabled motions to make the conditions public and to prohibit turnover ceilings. But those motions were rejected, so I'll retable them. Maybe now we will get support for a motion to ban patient stops from healthcare providers. At least we will prevent power games from being fought through the media, and patients will not be scared that they will not be treated. It would be even better if the Minister gave the guarantee that patient stops would not occur anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. It's to be despondent, isn't it? How many times have we talked about these treatment stops here? We've seen it in the neighborhood care, and this time it's the ggz's turn. At first it was Emergis, but the last few days we hear sounds about more treatment stops. There are two big common denominators. First of all, the ruler says he expects parties to consult with each other, address each other and that the NZa should jump in between. She also says she expects it to be okay. But yes, that process takes a long time and meanwhile patients are home without care. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we're all trying to control the cost of care is one thing, but that people don't get necessary care is, of course, a completely different story. It cannot be the case that a health insurance company buys so little care or at such a low rate that an institution is already at its tax rate in August or even has to intercede on its own reserves. The health insurance provider must ensure the care of his insured persons. That's what the Minister writes. Of course, this should not be done at the expense of the healthcare provider and please a bit nearby and not 150 kilometers away. We must get rid of this system in which solidarity is properly left to the market. 50PLUS would like to go to a system where health insurance companies only offer supplementary health insurance. The basic care should not be called into question. And we don't think it's acceptable for patients or patients to look for a treatment site themselves. The duty of care is not called "obligatory" for nothing. That's not a game. In the situation with Emergis, the parties concerned finally came to an agreement. That's great, but we shouldn't sit around and wait for it to happen again. Not in the ggz, not in the neighborhood nursing, nowhere. And that's why 50PLUS asks what the minister is doing proactively to prevent further treatment stops. How does she see this issue in the light of her own message to the House of Representatives in the spring that there is an understatement of the budget in the ggz. Oops, forgot to turn off the phone. And then it rings. 300 million was left. We just heard that. Minister, how can that rhyme with the patient stop? We want it to be no longer about patient stops, negotiations and budget ceilings, but about patient care. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u9	You have an interruption from Mrs Keijzer, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yeah, one question. I just heard Mrs Sazias say that she actually wants to go to another care system for the basic package. That sounded a bit like the system they have in England. Is Mrs. Sazias aware of the fact that they have waiting lists and treatment stops there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u11	Maybe we shouldn't take over that system one-on-one, but just take out the best practices. Because of course we do not want waiting times and treatment stops. That's what we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. And in the meantime, I'm saying it wasn't the Minister's phone, it was a decoy pen. She had to get a new pen. I hear the pen went into the trash. I'll give the floor to Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u13	I wouldn't have gotten any of it, Mr. Chairman. If you're in serious psychological trouble, you just need to get help as soon as possible. It is really not good that during the year, during the year, there are reports that in your region there is not the psychologist, psychiatrist or other help that should be there. There, I think, everyone agrees, at least all the previous speakers would say that. I read in the Minister's letters that she agrees with that. Yet this discussion comes back every year. And the simple question to the Minister is, how is that possible? What's that even about? Why isn't that better arranged? How come we stand here every year with the same questions? I look at it with ever greater surprise and Mrs Sazias ended up with it, which shows that 260 to 280 million remain. That's a lot of money. We've fought a huge battle over teachers' salaries, and that's in that order of magnitude. How is it that there's money left when people are short? Then it's very wrong. Will the Minister explain that to you? Does she want to answer for this and give us the assurance that it will be over once? Because we can wait for reports every year at the end of the year or sometime in September, but of course that is not what we want. That's actually my main question. The second question concerns the problems in youth-ggz. This question is not on the agenda, but it has something to do with it. They are municipal responsibilities, but it is exactly the same problem: children with mental problems who do not get the help they deserve. How come it's not taken care of right there? What's that all about? You're told the cause isn't enough money. This is often the case with municipalities. Is that right? Should something be done about that? In fact, you have to conclude that in mental health care in the Netherlands there are too many irresponsible bottlenecks that deserve a solution. Finally, the PvdA Group is seriously opposed to the fact that problems between health insurers, such as those who pay, are being played over the back of patients via the media. I think the Minister agrees with me. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "It's crazy that people are mentally serious and can't get help right away in the Netherlands, while there's enough money." These are not my words; these are the words of the Minister last weekend in the daily newspaper. She was just as concerned as I was when we recently heard about a treatment stop. A threatening treatment stop causes a lot of unrest in people. Can they receive the care they need? At the beginning of July, the Minister wrote about explicit agreements between all parties on waiting times in the ggz: an important agreement was that cooperation between insurers, healthcare providers and municipalities would improve under the watchful eye of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I therefore ask the Minister how it is possible that a treatment stop appeared to be coming. What is the Minister's view of improving this cooperation? What's her role in that? Mr. Chairman. The treatment stop for insured Zilver Cross at Emergis has been lifted for the coming weeks following a constructive consultation with the NZa. I'm curious to see what made the decision in this conversation. I'd like a response. But there are several treatment stops, as GGZ Nederland reported yesterday. For D66, the importance of good and timely ggz is always paramount. That is why I am asking the Minister if she has any idea of the number of patients for whom a possible treatment stop is at risk. Does the Minister share the view that a great deal can be avoided by anticipating early? What is the Minister's view of this anticipation? Mr. Chairman. Treatment stops also threaten in the district care. The NZa concludes in the Monitoring Contracting District Nursing 2017 that it is very important that parties remain in dialogue with each other. That is why my colleague Vera Bergkamp signed Marijnissen's motion. This calls on the government to direct with the NZa and to ensure that adequate community care is purchased by health insurance companies. What actions have now been deported by the NZa? Any leads yet? Finally, in the letter, the Minister discusses the role that the NZa will take in the future and states that the NZa may be enforcing when treatment stops threaten. At the same time, that letter states that if a treatment stop is initiated or threatened, there is no obligation to report to the NZa. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how she is kept informed by the NZa of imminent treatment stops. Who is responsible for reporting threatening treatment discontinuations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr President, thank you. People with mental illness should be able to rely on proper and appropriate care. That is why I have looked with surprise at the coverage of the treatment stops at ggz institutions in Zeeland. It is incomprehensible to me that parties fight disputes about contracting through the media, over the back of vulnerable people with mental illness. The way to solve contract problems is good and timely consultation between health insurers and healthcare providers. The Minister also referred to this in her letter. This commitment is being shared I am very happy to read that today by GGZ Nederland, which calls on its members to stay in conversation with health insurers and to engage the Dutch Healthcare Authority in good time, at least if necessary. The NZa carried out its tasks by calling Emergis, CZ and Silver Cross and letting them talk to each other. As a result, the treatment stop in Zeeland was avoided, as it turned out last week. The VVD does want the NZa to stay focused on healthcare providers who use treatment stops to fight conflicts about contracting via the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mrs. Kooiman of the SP has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u19	I'm very curious if the VVD has spoken to Emergis at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u20	No. 'Cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then the VVD could have known that Emergis didn't want to fight this through the media at all, but that it felt compelled to bring this out anyway because the health insurance company didn't give it at home. Also, the VVD could have known that the treatment stop is not at all off, but that it starts on 1 October at the moment when the health insurance company still doesn't want to listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u22	Then Mrs. Kooiman can explain to me what "not fighting in the media" means. Emergis told the media that they would stop treatment on October 1st. My question is then: did they use the independent Disputes Committee on Health Contracting, to which the Minister refers in her letter? Did they bet on that? Did they talk to the NZa before they came through the media with coverage? The result is that people with mental illness read that and wonder: is there any care for me in Zeeland later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u23	Finally, Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u24	I think it is harmful to talk about procedures in this way, whereas Emergis has been calling on various authorities, including the health insurance company, to indicate that complex care was needed. They stand with their backs against the wall because they say: we just can't deliver this anymore. Not only Emergis, also Pro Persona, Accare and many, also very small and freely established, bodies fight huge health insurance companies, especially Achmea, while getting zero on their dues. I think that this is harmful rather than saying that it should not be spoken through the media, because patients are getting hurt because the health insurance company sits in the chair of the treatment provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u25	You know what I really think is scandalous and harmful? It scares people with mental illness who read in the newspaper or see on the internet that treatment stops are coming, fear. They are very concerned about whether they are being helped at all in Zeeland. As a VVD, we believe that people with mental illness should be able to count on proper and appropriate care. This kind of conflict is not meant to be fought in the media. Those two parties, the health insurance company and the healthcare provider, need to talk about getting out. If there are problems, there is the possibility of an independent dispute settlement committee. The NZa must also assume its role and check whether the insurer's duty of care is being complied with. Emergis, who has a monopoly position in Zeeland, must then take responsibility for getting out. So we really think it is important to stand up for people with mental illness, who must be able to count on proper and appropriate care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u27	The VVD wants the NZa to stay focused on healthcare providers who use treatment stops to fight conflicts about contracting via the media. In this case, Ggz institutions and health insurance companies really need to come out. It is precisely that group of people with mental illness that is at stake. That's what we're all fighting for; that's what we're all fighting for. If parties abuse their position, I also think that the NZa should intervene very hard. That is why I am incredibly pleased that the Minister and the NZa have taken these problems seriously and put the parties to the table. Let's look together and see how the parties come out okay. The first signals already give good news and I'm happy about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u28	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. Treatment stops and patient stops in the ggz. Every time I hear or read about that, I think: how can this be? Because at first glance it's crystal clear. We are debating a treatment stop again today and we are talking about a treatment stop which, I understand, is no longer a stop because the parties are talking again. In addition, I think the whole concept of such a treatment and patient stop is bizarre in itself. After all, the health insurance companies have a duty of care and ggz-care is insured care. Besides, you're only allowed to wait for a certain amount of time, the so-called trek standards. So how do I think it should go? Mr. De Boer is calling Emergis or another care facility because he needs ggz care. This institution sees that it cannot reach the threshold standard, the allowed waiting period, or that it no longer fits within the budget it has received from the health insurance provider. The correct way to respond to vulnerable people like Mr. De Boer is to say, "Dear Mr. De Boer, we can't help you or we can't help you, do you think it's okay for us to pass your name on to your health insurance provider so that he can help you find a place where they can help you? Or words of this kind. If everyone in the ggz were to behave in this way, we would not be debating with each other today and there would be no ggz patients or relatives of patients afraid or uncertain as a result of reports about this. After all, there is plenty of money. But is it crystal clear on the second eye? I have a few questions for the Minister. Is it true what I just said about the right way of doing things by a care institution that gets someone at the door who can't help them because she no longer has a budget or goes over the threshold? My second question is: how can it be that Emergis calls a treatment stop when there are agreements about threatening waiting times? I quote: "patients can go to the right provider as soon as possible." The Minister himself wrote that in her letter of 13 July. It's, like, about a warm transfer so vulnerable people with mental problems don't fall apart. Healthcare insurers and health care institutions will then have to do what they have to do. Finally. Surely care obligation is not only mediation, but also extra insured care so that there really is sufficient care in all the different branches of ggz care, which is so important to the people who need that care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. I understand the Minister can answer the Chamber directly. I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of members have already indicated that the patient stop is a recurring phenomenon at the end of a contract and negotiation period. I had noticed that before, and that is why I asked everyone around the table before the summer of 2016 and said: "Dear people, we can never, ever fight things over the back of the patients in the media. That is not the way we should do it. This is always the case: something is being proclaimed in the media, which makes everything turn upside down a little bit later, and then you're actually going to use it as some kind of leverage in the negotiations. That can't be the intention!" So I've already had the hospitals and mental health care around the table before and the NZa was also there. We made very clear agreements at that time: that is not going to happen! As in previous years, we are no longer going to fight out our contract articles in the media, but are seeking contact with each other. You first seek contact with your insurer to say to him: we can no longer receive patients from that and that date. Then you try to get out and if you think it hasn't been a fair conversation, you go to the Disputes Committee that we specifically set up for that. We have mediation to see how you can manage that properly. That's what I agreed with the sector, both the hospitals and the ggz. The NZa was there. Now I see that institutions are again announcing a treatment stop. So I also spoke to the NZa, who told me: if we see it in the media, we will take it as a signal, because we have agreed with each other that we will not do it this way; we will discuss it first, and if we think that the outcome of the discussion is not good, we will go to the Disputes Committee. That's how it's gonna happen, and that's how it's gonna happen. If an institution now announces a patient stop, the NZa will invite both the institution and the health insurance company to its office. She's already done that to Emergis. Then you see that there is much more possible and that it can be done in a much better way than by throwing mud through the media. That is how we will continue and so the NZa will continue in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u32	I will interrupt you, because you have an interruption by Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u33	The Minister describes the process. The parties have to sit down with each other first. If they don't come out, they have to sit down with the NZa and there's also mediation possible. Meanwhile, throughout that process, patients sit at home waiting for care. Isn't there a way to speed up that process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u34	No, of course you should do that sooner. You can see that at some point there is too little contract and you have too many patients. You'll already be talking to your health care provider in time. If you feel that the results are not sufficient, you go to the Disputes Committee. The NZa isn't one of them at all. But the NZa has a number of tasks. One of them is monitoring care obligations. So if the health insurance provider has bought too little care at reasonable distance and reasonable time, the health insurance provider must be addressed on his duty of care. At the same time, we have ggz institutions that are the only ones in their region. That is what we call an economic term 'notable market power'. Such an institution must not therefore abuse it. She can't say: I'll shut my doors; then the patients have to go somewhere else and then the need gets so high that I finally get my way. I'm not the supervisor on that. That's the NZa. So she has to monitor that too. She has also indicated to me that she is taking this actively. That's exactly what she's doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u35	But we have been told more often that the insurer says to the institution that it has to pay it out of its own pocket. Such an institution will then fall back on its reserves. Then the NZa really has to intervene sooner. She's the one who should see this coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, we have private contract. The providers and the health insurance companies conclude a contract with each other. There's a lot of stuff in there about finances, about service you offer your patients, about quality. You make those appointments with each other, and you have to do it in a pure and honest way. If you don't think it's convenient in your region, you're gonna have to ring the bell in time. That's how the appointments were made at the table. You're gonna sit around the table with each other and you're not gonna go see the media. In hospitals, I think that's terrible, but in the ggz it's still double, because it's really about vulnerable people who get scared. I really have a problem with that. So that is the first and most important thing we agreed on with regard to the patient stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u37	Finally, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u38	For us, this is yet another proof that market forces in care were a very painful decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u39	Fortunately, we then see from government providers that there are no waiting lists: the youth ggz; I just want to say. That's something the government regulates. Sometimes it's not that easy to do that very well. A second point is on the agenda. Ah, Mrs. Kooiman; I should have known that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u40	Shall we give her the opportunity to interrupt first? Mrs. Kooiman, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u41	There is also, of course, market forces in youth-ggz. But let me rephrase. Should all the institutions, so outside of Emergis, for example Pro Persona, Accare, but above all all all these very small practices, all be negotiating with the health insurance companies until they make a difference? In the meantime, we all know that health insurance companies had left nearly 300 million on the shelf, as you pointed out in your interview. I mean, there's money and there's waiting lists on the other side. Then why isn't it solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u42	First of all... I just don't understand the definition of the SP of "market forces." That may be another debate, but all that is wrong is market forces there and all that goes well is government. If only it were that simple, I'd say. Second. Before the summer, I made agreements with the sector, both the providers and the insurers, on waiting lists. You can see that there are apparently incentives in the system, conversations that don't go well. Apparently, too many light patients are being treated at the expense of heavier patients. You can see what it's all about. Does that depend on you making wrong appointments, which is an average price? Then it is also very lucrative for a provider to hire light patients, because he gets paid as much as for heavier patients. Some institutions will have other contracts. But it has to be discussed. So that's what I did before the summer. I specifically kept that 280 million available. That is very unusual, you know, because the system is that when you have money left, that money goes to the general funds. That didn't happen here because I said I couldn't have waiting lists on the one hand and money going to the general budget on the other. So that money is still available to make arrangements. I made those appointments for the summer. They must actually ensure that all waiting times are within the threshold in a year, but if it can be even shorter. It is also not the case that all waiting times go beyond the threshold standard; you can see that in very specific groups, with specific care. So you can't say across the board that one measure is needed. You have to take different measures. It's all in the agreements I made before the summer and they're due this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u44	Then I wonder where the problem comes from. On the one hand, the Minister says: yes, but I have tried to make agreements. On the other hand, a lot of institutions, including small ones, are knocking on our door and saying: but we are getting a lot more complex aid questions that need more serious care, while the heavier care is no longer being paid for. Larger health insurance companies say: yes, we will not pay any more; we bought in last year, but you will not get more. Doesn't that rub? So what's the Minister gonna do to fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u45	Apparently it is not so bad, because if the NZa invites the parties to the table, there is apparently a possibility of an appointment. The point is that we can't say this in general. What we can say is that it should not pay to scare patients through the media, which means that we are constantly escalating. That's what we agreed on. I would very much like everyone to keep their commitments. Because that's why we make agreements. So I keep everyone's appointments, both in procedure and in waiting lists, resolve within a year. That applies to me both to providers and to insurers, because I am not at all saying that the provider or the insurer is always wrong here. Sometimes a provider will be right and sometimes an insurer. The NZa's gonna take that call and deal with whoever's got the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u46	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u47	The problem lies in the fact that many institutions talk as Brugman with a health insurance company but constantly get zero on the record. There is no solution at all now; I know of at least two institutions where that treatment stop is on the agenda again on 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u48	But of course it is always the case with the SP that the insurer is the fault and never the provider. That's right. Your entire contribution depends on each other, Mrs. Kooiman. And I think that you should look at the issue in each case, because it is also not for an institution that is the only provider to say: we are closing the doors for the whole region here. I think you should look a lot more closely and one day it will be that the provider is wrong and the other time the insurer. That is why we have set up a dispute committee. For if you are right, and all these providers go to the Disputes Committee, then the Disputes Committee will judge that they are all right. And why don't they go to the Disputes Commission? We set it up for that. That's what we agreed on. We don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u49	The Disputes Committee cannot solve a problem until it has actually escalated. So it is important that we have the Disputes Committee, but that does not touch the core of the problem. With this minister, you may be able to criticize parts of the policy, but you can usually say to her: if she enforces agreements, they will be kept fairly well. It's not going so well here. My question is therefore: is the problem of contracting at the ggz not so complex that it also deserves a broader study? What about the contracting policy within the ggz? And shouldn't we look at it a little deeper? The Minister is right to say that there are so many different situations and it is not always the case that one major provider throws soot in the food or that an insurer creates an impossible situation. Should we not therefore look more closely at the problems and the causes of what is happening now, which leads to these treatment stops?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u50	For the record, I have made arrangements with the sector itself. The institutions sit at the table and make an appointment with me. I think you should look closely at this point and not always blame one party. That's why we set up mediation. We agreed with each other that we should let the Disputes Committee judge what goes wrong here. Suppose we make that appointment and say: yes, but no one has to go to the Disputes Committee, because that is afterward. Then we don't make that deal. Deal's a deal. The deal is we don't do it through the media. That's why the NZa is going to intervene immediately as soon as that happens. It can also maintain if it believes that one party has really left it. I also think it is important for her to be able to maintain it. She must be a watchdog with teeth. At the same time, we have a dispute committee where it belongs, because it does not belong to the NZa, of course, but to the Disputes Committee, which can therefore say as an arbitrator: go to the Disputes Committee before you have patients on your doorstep. Emergis announced this for October. It could have gone to the Disputes Committee. Then it could have just gone through the Disputes Commission instead of the NZa having intervened. That's how we arranged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u51	The Minister doesn't really answer my question. It's about how we avoid getting into a situation that tends to stop treatment. Something's going wrong with the contract. There's no proper contract. These problems are the order of the day. They've been coming back too long. There's something wrong with the relationship between insurers and ggz providers. That's what we need to look at. We need to solve the problems at the front. If the situation is already bad, then you can go to the Disputes Committee and possibly resolve that one case. But I am concerned that we should avoid encountering these problems in the ggz sector all the time. Then we will have to do more in-depth research into the causes of these problems. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u52	But these conversations have taken place, with those who are directly at the table: the providers and the health insurance companies. We had that conversation. We have said: can we make agreements to prevent us from always losing ourselves in this same row and that we will have a situation where we have waiting lists on the one hand and apparently have money on the other? That is what we have agreed on, and that is what we really need to do. But of course, if the ink of these agreements is not yet dry, it is not important to review the policy again or to take other measures, when we must first stick to the agreements. Because that's why we make them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u53	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u54	Finally, these agreements are very nice, but they are good intentions. I'm talking about something going wrong in the contracting policy. Something structuralally isn't going well. That's what we need to investigate. Only then will we be able to solve the problem in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u55	If agreements are so non-binding, then we have a problem. Because these agreements are so non-binding in no sector. If you agree that you're going to do it financially with that growth, or that you're going to do it qualitatively, then you're going to stick to the agreements you have or you're going to regulate it from above. I made an appointment that, if you pull the vacation out of it, could hardly get any details in practice. It would be very weird if I were to intervene now, when those agreements should actually be implemented as we speak. Moreover, I would not know exactly how, now that I am outgoing, and I should have to intervene on it, is also unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u56	On another point, Mrs. Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u57	I would like to support Mrs Ellemeet on this point, Mr President. The appointments are there, but that's not the only thing. Then it remains that the contract does not work, as Mrs Ellemeet says. That's not just in the ggz. We've seen the same problems in community nursing. So this is a broad problem. Contracting is not in line with reality. Mrs Ellemeet is asking for an investigation, and I would like to support that. How is it that within the agreements we run into mistakes in the contractation every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u58	It's been noted. I have already responded to this in response to Mrs Ellemeet. We have found that things are not going well. We made a deal about that. If you cut the holiday period off, those appointments are actually what needs to happen now. We did that for next year. I don't know what you expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u60	Is the NZa too late, is it too late in this and how can we improve this? The NZa shouldn't be involved in this at all. The health insurance companies have a duty of care. The NZa does supervise that, but we also have a dispute committee. That's the first move. You'll go to the Disputes Committee first if you don't agree. That's how we arranged it. So that's where it has to take place. Now the NZa will only go for it if the fight takes place via the media. What are the underlying causes? Is it true that insurers buy too little care? If they do, we'll have the NZa. He has to see to this, because there is a duty of care. Is it a matter of care-avoidance or a capacity problem? We have a rather robust ggz sector that grows year by year. There has been no cuts in the past period. The ggz grows, but only less hard. So I think it is too short to say that this is a capacity problem. Where a health insurance company does not buy enough, it does not comply with the duty of care and will maintain the NZa. What's to be done? Should we have sanctions for exceeding the waiting time standards? I do not think that the NZa can intervene today, because, as I said, we have just made those agreements. But during the year, until summer, the NZa will continue to maintain more strictly where the waiting lists do not decrease. That's how we arranged it. There will be more patients with more complex problems at the institutions, but everyone is entitled to care. So as a more complex patient, you just have a right to care. Then the health insurance company should arrange for that care to be there for you. And if the health insurance company has budgeted too little or paid too little and cannot comply with his duty of care, then he will have to contract with it. It's as simple as that, because the patient is entitled to that care. Mrs. Agema asks: should the NZa intervene more quickly? I agree with Mrs Agema. So does the NZa. She's using treatment stops as a signal. Can I give you a guarantee that there's no longer a patient stop? "Patients Stop" is a bit of a general word. A health insurance provider may have contracted care at a particular ggz institution. At some point, that contract is full. Then there may be a ggz setting next to it that still has space. Then it's up to that ggz institution to tell the patient that he needs to call his health insurance provider and that there should be mediation where he can go. Unless he's got a refund policy, 'cause he can get in anywhere. But you can see now that there are few alternatives in the region at large ggz institutions, while you should be able to get care within a reasonable time and distance. There are therefore additional requirements for institutions that are in that position. There are also waiting lists in the youth ggz; what is that about, is there not enough money? The Secretary of State is on top of the youth ggz. In fact, we both had a conversation last week with ggz providers about both curative ggz and youth ggz: boys, how can we achieve faster results in this sector? Often, when you make agreements with one half of the sector, the other half of the sector is against it. We really have to prevent that, because that doesn't take any steps. Also in the case of signals in the youth ggz that insufficient care had been purchased, the Secretary of State was directly on top of that to see if that was actually the case. You really should ask the Secretary of State for the exact analysis. I can't give it to you like this, but basically it is. Then there's the number of neighborhood nurses. I believe that there will be a general consultation with the Secretary of State on district nurses this week or next week. By the way, you can see that a huge amount of extra money goes to the district nurses to increase capacity. I think I've... Sorry, I couldn't understand what was said in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u61	You don't have to, Minister, because it wasn't said by the microphone. All you have to do is respond to things that have been told to you by the microphone through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u62	I think I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u63	All I have left is the term "reporting obligation."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u64	We fill that in so that if there's a problem, you go to the Disputes Committee. That's the route you have to walk. If you do not walk that route, but if you fight it out via the media, the NZa will take it as a signal and invite both parties to her office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u65	You also mentioned the obligation to report in your letter. You say the obligation to report is important. Only I have the feeling that the distance between a report and action is a little spacious. What exactly is that about? Something is being reported through the newspaper seems to me to be a bad idea, but it seems to me that this is happening before. That's another question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u66	We have no obligation to report a treatment stop to the NZa. You can say, okay, with that health insurance company, I have these appointments, those patients I have, and if I get more patients, I'll pass them on to the health insurance company so they can find a place. If that's not the case and you really have a conflict with your insurance company, you're going to a dispute committee. If you think the insurer doesn't comply with his duty of care, of course you're really dealing with the NZa. There is now a special situation. I already made agreements with the sector last summer. I said I don't want to be here every year about treatment stops. The NZa says: if we now see it through the media, we will see it as a signal and invite both parties to answer to us about what is happening against the agreements in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you. I'm gonna look around the room and see if there's a need for a second term. Yeah, there is. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I find it truly frustrating that the question of research is being swept away by the Minister. If we really want to solve the problem in the ggz, we will have to do more than just make these agreements. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas healthcare providers and health insurers do not always adjust contract agreements on time if a treatment ceiling is likely to be reached;]] [[whereas the Dutch Healthcare Authority should play an intermediate role in this, but the NZa has not been involved in recent cases in a timely manner;]] [[Whereas healthcare providers are not required to report to the NZa if a patient stop is initiated or threatened;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a reporting obligation for healthcare providers to the Dutch Healthcare Authority if a patient stop is initiated or threatened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas every year ggz institutions risk refusing patients because the treatment ceiling may be reached;]] [[Considering that there is uncertainty as to the causes of early attainment of treatment ceilings and that contracting policies can be improved in this respect;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the contracting policy in the ggz and to send the conclusions and recommendations to the Chamber by 1 January 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-372]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. I don't really get it. This minister states in the media that she is frustrated because there are people on the waiting list, because there is still money on the shelf of the health insurance companies, and in the end I do not really notice any of this in this debate, if the Minister is prepared to take this up. That's why I have a very friendly motion, I think, to help her out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas ggz institutions are forced to announce treatment stops because the amount of care purchased by the health insurance provider does not appear to be sufficient;]] [[Whereas it concerns the most vulnerable complex ggz patients who suffer from these treatment stops;]] [[Considers that treatment stops create an undesirable threshold for access to ggz;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the NZa, to direct and ensure that sufficient ggz is purchased by health insurers within the budgets, in order to prevent treatment stops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Nijboer and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. With this motion we ensure that the NZa becomes a watchdog again instead of a waving labrador.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you. I'm looking at Mrs. Agema. It does not need a second term. Mrs. Sazias? Mr. Nijboer? Mrs. Diertens? Mr. El Yassini? Mrs. Keijzer? Then I'll just wait a moment, because the Minister doesn't have all the documents yet. We have three motions in total. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. I think it should be better in mental health care. I don't think it's acceptable for people to be on waiting lists while there's money. So I didn't say, "God, I don't think that's acceptable and I'm not doing anything else." No, I said: I do not think that is acceptable, so I am making agreements with the institutions and with the health insurance companies, so that this changes, that this will be cleared up within a year and that we will get right to it. That's right. I did not say: oh, I am so frustrated and I can and do nothing else. No, I translated that into the agreements to actually do something about it. I have translated that into keeping money available to actually finance it. Mr. Chairman. Then I've received three motions. The first motion asks the government to establish a notification obligation for healthcare providers to the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I'd like to discourage this motion. We've agreed on a different route. A Disputes Commission has been set up specifically so that the parties can go to that Disputes Commission. Then I don't want to open a second route for that. The motion in part No. 373 calls on the Government to investigate the contracting policy in the ggz and to send the conclusions to the Chamber before 1 January 2018. I reject this motion because we have just made agreements which should lead to the removal of waiting times. I want real progress to be made. Therefore, the NZa will actually monitor these claims. That monitoring will give the Court an insight into whether these agreements are actually being complied with. In addition to the monitoring agreements, I really want to dissuade the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr El Yassini was already at the microphone at the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yeah, that's right. I'd like to know how the Minister looks at that. In the motion in part No. 372 states: invites the government to establish a notification obligation for healthcare providers to the Dutch Healthcare Authority. The agreement made by the Minister with the sector and health insurance companies Netherlands is that that of those treatment stops will not be fought out in the media, but I see here that there will be a reporting obligation. Doesn't it mean more administrative burdens for healthcare providers, because they have to carry out additional actions because of the obligation to notify to which they have to comply? Isn't it much more convenient and much better that it goes through the Disputes Committee? In other words, doesn't this motion actually create unnecessary administrative burdens for healthcare providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u75	I'm not in favour of reporting at all. I'm really on the road to the Disputes Committee. First of all, you have set up a Disputes Commission for this, but at the same time you are going to set up a reporting obligation at the NZa, which has to do with it. How does that relate to each other? The NZa is the supervisor. It checks whether the obligation of care is met by the insurer, whether there is no significant market power or whether the healthcare provider does not abuse his position. The NZa must give judgment on every case that comes to her. The motion in part No. 374 calls on the government, in consultation with the NZa, to direct and ensure that sufficient ggz is purchased by health insurers within the budgets, so that treatment stops are prevented. I have just made agreements with the sector, the providers and the insurers to actually do this. There is an agreement set which should lead to no waiting time for next year. I am not in the mood for the government to direct this, because something really has to be done in the field here. If the government takes over, nothing will happen in the field. So I would also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mrs Kooiman has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u77	Well, I just want to point out to the Minister that she is actually system responsible. I'm not saying she has to do it alone, but with the NZa. I have tabled the motion because several institutions say that it has not yet been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u78	That is why I have made agreements with healthcare providers and health insurance companies and I am going to monitor the NZa what is actually the result of these efforts, so that I, as a system manager, can actually see what is happening in practice and arrive at these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you. That concludes the 30-member debate on the treatment stops in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-9.u80	Voting time is next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. for the next debate, as planned.
