ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now turn to Mr Kuzu's question, on behalf of DENK, to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, about the events surrounding the entrance of St. Saint in Dokkum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The power of democracy depends on how the majority treats the minority. If the discussion surrounding Black Piet's racist caricature were to be a measure, then we would score a severe incompetence. We saw this last Saturday during the country entrance of Saint Nicholas in Dokkum. Also in many other cities such as Amsterdam and The Hague, where Piet has been stripped of the racist caricature, this children's party was celebrated. My first question is: did the children in Amsterdam and The Hague not have a children's party and the children in Dokkum did? What I'm saying is this hasn't been a children's party for a long time. This is an occasion when a furious group of neo-Nazis and Erkenbrand sympathizers, according to the Volkskrant, takes matters into their own hands and destroys an important fundamental right, namely the right of demonstration. Does the Minister agree with this? The action groups against Black Piet with a permit to demonstrate in Dokkum were stopped by a blockade on the A7, resulting in life-threatening situations, head and tail collisions, pedestrians on the highway, injuries and personal injuries due to emergency stoppages. The police came along, looked at it, didn't make any arrest and even threatened to turn the protesters around, otherwise they would be arrested on the basis of sedition. Now I wonder why. How is this possible? It's just incredible; it's bizarre. I don't have any words for it. It's the reverse world. Can the Minister answer the question as to why, according to news reports, no arrest has been made on the highway? The authorities that should ensure the protection of people who have the right to demonstrate make a knee-down for right-wing extremists. That deputy mayor, chairman, he's working on it. After all, a timely report had been made. There was a permit issued. There was a demonstration class. And yet the permit was revoked at the last minute. It's not the first time this has happened. There have recently been too many arbitrary demonstrations on the basis of the public order argument. Shouldn't these decisions be tested independently for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Kuzu mentioned the children's feast, and that is what it is indeed. That "full of anticipation beats your heart" I think we all have. Many parents also want the entrance of Sinterklaas, that beautiful children's party, to stay and that it is not dominated by anything else. But before that. Mr Kuzu also asked a number of questions about it. From my responsibility, I would like to emphasise that the right of demonstration in this country is indeed a very important right. Now let me come from a town where I've worked with Mayor Van der Laan. He used to say, "demonstration is sometimes sacred." I think that is a fine statement, and I think that we in the Netherlands are also doing justice to freedom of expression and the freedom of demonstration. At the same time, it is important that we also realise that local authority, the mayor with the triangle, must ultimately make the decision or it can. I think this has played a part in this. On the one hand there was the desire, and the intention, to make a demonstration that was announced possible. Moreover, I understand that this has also happened in a good way, because the demonstration would precede the actual entry so that the children's party could take place as undisturbed as possible. Then a situation arose in which the same mayor considered that there was a risk of disorder and for that reason had to renounce the original intention. Let me now turn to Mr Kuzu's last question. If I understand correctly, he's generalizing this now. I do not think it is appropriate to answer that question in this Question Time. I see very different ways and different situations in the Netherlands. There are of course large cities in the Netherlands that often have demonstrations, like here in The Hague. In Amsterdam ditto. This also applies to a number of other major cities. I don't see any problems there. If there is any indication that this is different elsewhere, I would like to assure him that I will take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	In any case, thank you for the commitment that the Minister is willing to look at the public order argument. It would be so beautiful if this would be a children's party for all Dutch children, for all Dutch children. The debate on this issue is very frequent. We're talking about the disorder that's taking place in Dokkum. It's been reported in advance. A permit has been requested. This minister is no longer an alderman in Amsterdam, this minister is Minister of the Interior. She could also give an opinion on what happened in Dokkum. I also have a question about government policy. This cabinet is new. This ruler is new. In recent times, a number of government officials have made statements. Thus we had Mr Knops, who at WNL said about the people who stopped the highway: you don't normally do that, but I get the emotion. Then I wonder: is it from now on a cabinet policy to show understanding for people who commit crimes and deny other people their fundamental rights? Because that's the group we're talking about here. People are denied their fundamental rights. I have seen in The Hague that Geert Wilders wanted to protest in the Schilderswijk. There was a cordon of M.E. Walking around. Pegida demonstrated in the Schilderswijk, with a cordon of ME and authorities running around it. In that case, that is not the case. Let's get back to that double size. Rutte also made statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Prime Minister. He said, "What you don't want is for kids to face angry protesters." Then you ask yourself: is it from now on cabinet policy to deny and frame certain groups who have an uncomfortable opinion for the Prime Minister their right of demonstration as angry? Finally, Mr. Chairman. Mr Knops, the Secretary of State for the Interior, also said at WNL: Black Piet is a tradition that is maintained as far as I am concerned. From now on, is it cabinet policy that Black Pete is black? How does this stand in relation to the words of Minister of Engelshoven, who said that traditions like Black Piet should go with their time? What is the cabinet policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu has asked a lot of questions. Let me start by saying that there are emotions on this subject. It's getting pretty obvious. Those emotions come from different sides. What would be better to have that debate with each other and to try to understand each other's starting points? Secondly, and I was just saying that, there is a lot of space in the Netherlands to express your opinion, to demonstrate. Local space is also given for this, as well as in Dokkum. It is only when a risk arises that the mayor has to make a decision. That was the case in this case, and that is why the planned demonstration has not been carried out. Finally, the cabinet speaks with one voice. Mr Knops also received a question about the situation in a television programme last Sunday morning. It is important for you to consider the whole context of the discussion when he said: in my village Mr Knops comes from Limburg, the Piets are black and I think it is important that everyone abides by the law. In other words, he outlined the very broad context and illustrated exactly what I said at the beginning of my contribution: The Netherlands is a small country but large in diversity. In Amsterdam it is different than in Dokkum and also in the village in Limburg where Mr Knops comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, you've run out of time, Mr. Kuzu. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister is right to say that the right to demonstrate is sacred. It is indeed one of the core values of our democratic rule of law that you can argue against everything you find. Still, there's a problem. We regularly see that people who threaten to disrupt or actually do a demonstration, as unfortunately happened last weekend, manage to limit that right to demonstration. The case law is very clear, including in Strasbourg: only if there is real administrative force majeure can it go on, but it is really up to the government to ensure that everyone can exercise their right to demonstrate. My question to the Minister is as follows. How can the Home Secretary, in consultation with the mayors, ensure that local authority throughout the country can actually exercise this right of demonstration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	This is an addition to Mr Kuzu's question which I have just answered. On the one hand, there is the right of demonstration and on the other hand, there is the responsibility of local authority to assess whether there is no risk, for example, of disorder as has happened here. I think it is important that I, as a minister, should also say that this right of demonstration is protected as much as possible. I have also just argued that I think that in many large cities experience shows that this is happening and that it is being given a lot of space. So I do not have the impression, as some people are asking, that the argument of public order and security is being taken too easily, but I am prepared to discuss it with mayors or perhaps through the UNG in order to assess whether what is being suggested here is also true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think it would be a good way to talk about that. What we see is that demonstrations are regularly banned, which has also recently been noted by the NJCM, and then later the judge finds that it was wrong and there are excuses, but that the moment when you can actually exercise the right of freedom of expression is already over. It is also said too quickly that there is a risk of disorder, but in the end you can only ban a demonstration when the police are so big that it is really impossible to maintain and therefore not at the first the best disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	And the question is, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	My question is whether the Minister does not really see a role for himself. It is not just about local authorities, because the state is a standard addressee in terms of human rights treaties. So what role does she intend to play more specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Buitenweg, this is oral Question Time. A follow-up question or a question should not last longer than 30 seconds. Otherwise you will have more time than those who ask questions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Buitenweg and I do not disagree at all, because that right to demonstrate is a great thing. At the same time, the Public Events Act and the Municipal Law empower the mayor to make that exact assessment. So I would not go any further today than to say that I would be happy to enter into this discussion because of the indications given by some Members here, but I also think that we should respect that we have just laid down that legal competence at local level and that we should not want to go into it too much from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	Many of these anti-racist protesters are currently threatened by right-wing extremist groups. We are even dealing with a situation such as Kevin Roberson, the journalist who reported and whose address on social media is massively shared by right-wing extremist groups. Will the Minister also ensure that such people get the safety they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	I hear Mr Kuzu. In the Netherlands, everyone must be able to be safe and everyone must be able to express their opinion. That's a big good. Conversely, I did not receive Mr Kuzu's lead in this way, but I assume that it will be assessed by the public prosecutor in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
