ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	We will now go to Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV, who will ask questions to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I call Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Wilders fuck off. Wilders fuck off." That text was rhythmically scanned by pupils from a junior grade, about 12, 13, with hand-claps and foot-stamps. They are students of the Gregory College in Utrecht. It was the week before the national election. "Wilders fuck off." What is then scanned is not entirely clear, but from our information, from people we have spoken to, it would have been "slippers on your head." All this happened under the direction of employees of DOX and their own teacher. DOX is an artist collective that offers its services to school. The working week we are talking about here was the theme of "insurrection." 12, 13 years. The subject alone is a reason for us to ask questions. Why initiate twelve-year-olds in the theme of "insurrection" a week before the elections? Does that fall under DOX's mission that, as we can read, it wants to transfer knowledge to future generations? Mr. Chairman. In the education budget, the PVV has made a major issue of influence by teachers of pupils. Pupils are young, vulnerable in their opinion formation. My point was that teachers have to transfer knowledge and skills, help students how to think. They should never tell students what to think and whatever political side, left or right, those teachers themselves are. If you do, there's influence. In this particular case, it is about much more than that. This is about indoctrination. At the time, the Minister betrayed my motion for political neutrality of teachers. This PVV motion was only supported by Forum for Democracy. The other parties and the minister saw no problem at all. My first question to the Minister is: now that you are familiar with this example, do you see that you have made a mistake and that there is indeed a broad influence and even indoctrination in education? Because of course this case is not on its own; this just happened to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Beertema as the representative of the Freedom Party for the questions he has asked. He refers to a situation at a school in Utrecht about nine to ten months ago. We have of course also asked ourselves about the situation in Utrecht. That disputed fragment, of about 12 seconds, was part of the project Rebellion within the school, as Mr Bertema said. In that project, students prepared and performed plays in groups. In one of those plays they reenacted a demonstration. That's what the contested fragment was based on. I think it's good to know this context. By the way, it is also good to know that the school regrets the fuss that has arisen now, months later. When it comes to Mr Beertema's questions, I would like to say in general that, as Minister for Education, I attach great importance to first and foremost to freedom of expression but also to respect each other and respect each other's views. The school is an excellent practice place for such values and for such a basic attitude. School, whether it is a school in Utrecht or in Schin op Geul or anywhere else in the Netherlands, should be a place where there is room for teachers, possibly with the help of third parties, to discuss with students all kinds of important matters, including in the context of citizenship formation. It is up to schools to make a choice in the forms they choose to do so, and possibly also to use support from third parties. There must be freedom for students to express themselves but also for teachers to engage in the conversation with those students. Mr Bertema is a former teacher and so there are more in this Chamber, I am one myself. It is actually core business in education that you try to talk to your students in this way, that offers you a safe place to do so and that you can also talk about difficult topics. If there are any questions about how that happens, and that can be done, those questions may suddenly arise... I think it is important that they are addressed in the right place. As far as I am concerned, that is not the Parliament, but the school in question. The question can then be asked. Within the school, as Mr Beertema knows, there are sufficient opportunities to ask questions to teachers, via the mr, or through whatever possibilities. In that respect, therefore, I do not feel the need to impose a code of conduct from above. I have already made this clear in the budget debate. I believe that the discussions about this should take place in the schools themselves. I think that happens in all places in the Netherlands as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister also has two minutes' speaking time. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	I thank the Minister for his answer, but it is not an answer to my question. My question was: are you worried about the fact that teachers in education and professors are indoctrinating on an incredibly wide scale? I am thinking of an institute like Nexus with those books about "the eternal return of fascism." It's always about us. It's always about us. They never say, "Mark Rutte, fuck off!" It doesn't say "Arie Slob," fuck off! This is about this context. That "Wilders, fuck off" was just a 12-second fragment, that's right. But the parent who filmed that didn't start filming until the moment she thought, "What's going on here?" It's been going on for 45 minutes. Rhythmically exciting, which put those students in some kind of flow with that "Wilders, fuck off." Moreover, there were also many qualifications for President Trump, for all intents and purposes. 12-year-old students in Utrecht who have to call President Trump names: that is the situation. The foundation responsible for that indoctrination then speaks about the context. Well, this was the context of the people we talked to. And then that theme rebellion. Minister Slob may think that's normal, but we don't think it's normal. Minister, be honest. This is just indoctrination, isn't it? It is shameful that vulnerable children should be steered in this way in their form of opinion. My question would be whether you are prepared to allow the inspection to investigate what has happened on this issue, as well as on settlement. I also think the latter is important. The parents who have not accepted this course of action would have been intimidated, directly intimidated, by Gregory College. We'd like an investigation into that. We would like to receive a letter from the Minister about that investigation, preferably this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mr Beertema is asking me to be honest. When I speak, I am honest and express the views I have, including on a subject like this. This is a very important issue. This is about the space we want to give schools and teachers to speak openly with their students on all kinds of subjects, sometimes on very difficult subjects, and to make choices about the support they want to have. I think we must be very careful, and I say this very strongly in order to move in from The Hague and to indicate what we consider appropriate and not appropriate. Of course, at a time when things are getting out of hand, to put it that way, this has to be addressed. But that must be done primarily at the place where it belongs and that is in the schools. As you know, the schools are controlled. There's supervision of the schools. We will also receive reports on this when it is necessary. However, on the basis of a twelve-second fragment taken from a larger picture and with a whole context of a project of nine or ten months ago, I find it disproportionate to start all sorts of research there now. I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, Mr. Beertema. Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	The context as outlined by the Minister is indeed relevant. He says a lot. At the same time, Mr Beertema raised an essential point. I hear the Minister say that the issue has been raised at the school and that the school deeply regrets the fuss that has arisen after so many months. Look, then I get suspicious, because then I have the next question. Has the school, at the time it occurred, also dared to act in the vein of "that's not how we deal with each other"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Bishop suggests that what happened there would be inauspicious. At the moment that in the large context of a project students get the space to fill in the plays themselves, as we understand it, it has not been one, but if there were more than one, that space must also be filled in. There must always be room to talk about this in detail and to talk about it. We understand that this was also part of the project. I want to ensure that from The Hague the space that schools need to discuss with their students, engage in discussions and work with each other, including on citizenship formation, is censored on the basis of very small fragments that come out from a larger picture or decide what one should or should not do. For the rest, there are laws and regulations in the Netherlands which must also be complied with by schools. Of course, we will keep the schools to that, in whatever situation and whatever school it is in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	I understand. The PVV is, of course, the party of decency. She always protects our ground values. Freedom for all; the PVV takes the lead. What I want to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's a smart thing to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	...is which one... Yeah, go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, it's really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	Keep going. Beautiful, isn't it? Do you feel spoken to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Well, then we're done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then it's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Azarkan, you have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	I was busy, but I think it is Mr Beertema who is interrupting me, Mr President. I suggest you say something to Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	No, you mentioned Mr. Beertema and Mr. Beertema responded to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	But you didn't give him the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, you had the floor to ask a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, you didn't give him the floor. He's talking through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	This is oral Question Time. This means that questions are being asked to the Minister or the Secretary of State. If questions are asked and you are asked in between by another group, whether it is the PVV or another group, then others go into them. So I'd say ask the Minister your question. Then it is up to the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is: what rule has been broken here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	Based on what we know of what took place there, I have just outlined to you the context. We assume that the school has used the space to talk to their children. What's important, I just reported it. This is something that should be respected not only in schools, but also in this area, so to speak, and that is freedom of expression and respect for each other as individuals and for each other's opinions. It is important that this is given substance in schools. I want to stand up for teachers, so that they can be given the space to do so, and I do not want to see a situation in which, on the basis of things that come out, there is a situation in which people would all be inauspiciously engaged in all kinds of places. I do not wish to go along with that as a responsible minister either. I do not want to go along with such an image of our schools and our teachers. I don't think that's right for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Beertema. I assume you are going to ask the Minister a question and not respond to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'm gonna ask the Minister a question. You're standing here telling an honest story. I understand that, but my doubt is whether that school, the Gregory College, has been so honest with you, because my intelligence from the people who were directly involved, the parents who were there, are very different. That's what I told you. Those are those 45 minutes of scanning "Wilders, fuck off" and so on. My question was simply: let the inspection investigate what has happened there, because it cannot...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	The Minister. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr President, I said what I said about the inspection. Parents who, because their children are students at a school, object to certain expressions occurring in a school, I have clearly pointed the way. These parents have opportunities. They have opportunities to talk. They have options to raise through a Mr's case, and that's also where it belongs primarily. I would like to call on the parents who, after so many months, still have questions about this issue, to do it in an orderly manner and to use the right words, because I think that can also show that you are dealing with each other with respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you.
