ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. It is her first debate and I wish her every success. Also welcome to the Members of Parliament, to the people in the public gallery and to the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	We have five speakers today. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD. It's his maiden speech. We have the rule here in the Chamber that he should not be interrupted. I wish him every success in his first debate and contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It is for you, the Secretary of State and for me the first time, so indeed a special moment. Congratulations to you, too, Madam Secretary of State, in trade-K. I hope for constructive cooperation. I am allowed to address the Chamber for the first time in a plenary session. I have to be honest: that makes me feel humble. It may seem so simple: pronouncing a text for a microphone. But when you think that you're doing that on behalf of a lot of voters, that makes the moment special. For that group, the people in the country, we are in this Chamber day after day as Members of Parliament. We are here because we represent Dutch people and because we want to make our country a little better and nicer. We want all Dutch people to feel that the weather is improving, that after many years of crisis all signals are on green again. We have achieved a great deal in recent years, and we should be proud of that. It shows me what we Dutch people are capable of. We're not gonna let bad luck stop us. We're gonna see what we can do. We're constantly improving ourselves. The best is often not good enough for Dutch people. That drives us to make our country a little better over and over again. I'm grateful to be standing here. I hope to be of value to the people of the country in the coming years. After all, there are plenty of challenges left. In this way, we must ensure that the Netherlands remains an open economy, with healthy competitiveness and a good locational environment. A country where there is plenty of room for entrepreneurship, for family businesses and for technology and innovation. In this way, everyone in this country can continue to develop and pursue their dreams. We have shown time and again that we can meet these challenges. Let me give you an example of the Dutch horticulture sector. Of course, as a Westlander and as a former alderman of this entrepreneurial horticultural community, I am not entirely unbiased, but our Dutch horticultural sector is very well regarded worldwide. After the United States, we are the world's second exporter of agricultural products. With our knowledge of sustainable cultivation, we can potentially feed the whole world. Moreover, the footprint of each productionkilo is the smallest in the world in terms of CO, energy, pesticide and antibiotics. We have shown that anything is possible, no matter what challenges come our way. I hope that the same entrepreneurial institution will allow me to be a representative of the people in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the many challenges for the coming years. One of these challenges is to preserve and strengthen our digital infrastructure. Under the Dutch soil are many thousands of kilometres of cable, providing people with mobile telephony, radio and TV and fast internet. At the Dutch home, at companies, at hospitals and also in this parliament. The legislative proposal before us today aims to strengthen this infrastructure. Despite the fact that we have moved from analogue to digital over the past decades and there have been many more mobile possibilities, this is grounded with good cables and enough antenna masts. Without this underground infrastructure no mobile communications, radio, TV or fast internet. It will ensure that the Netherlands continues to take the lead in providing high-speed internet and that everyone can benefit from it. Although we support this bill, the VVD sees room for improvement in two respects. First of all, the obligation of tolerance for municipalities. Municipalities are obliged to tolerate the laid unused cables suitable for high-speed connections. The aim of this bill is to make some changes and in the future a municipality can make a request for clean-up if the cables are left unused for too long. As far as we are concerned, this leads to capital destruction and, moreover, we do not think it would be desirable if such a request would allow municipalities to charge precario to organisations that own the cables if the cables remain in place. This is ultimately detrimental to the owners of the cables but also to the municipalities themselves and especially to the inhabitants of villages and cities. The request to clean up cables can lead to large-scale work on people on the streets. And nobody is waiting for that, especially if it turns out that new cables are needed in the near future. Because if the pipes are already there, a cable can simply be blown through without having to open the ground. Once the cables have been removed, the ground has to be dug up again, which no one is waiting for. CDA colleague Van den Berg will therefore be tabling an amendment on my behalf in this debate to prevent undue damage to the Dutch digital infrastructure. In addition, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how municipalities are informed about the changes that this law brings about and whether municipalities are also reminded by the Ministry of the benefits of maintaining and expanding underground connections. We think it's a good thing this is happening. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? I would also like to draw attention to the users of high cell towers in the Netherlands. Anyone who listens to the radio makes unnoticed use of cell towers with a height of more than 100 metres. Think of the cell towers in Hilversum or in Hoogersmilde. Users of this limited number of cell towers, radio stations that broadcast on the FM frequency, among other things, are dependent on these masts due to altitude. The transmission of FM frequencies can go as far as the horizon. In the past, this has led to higher rental prices for such an antenna. This found and finds the VVD undesirable. In the past, therefore, my predecessor Afke Schaart, together with the CDA, has tabled an amendment to prevent this. This addition, which was also supported by Parliament in 2013, works. However, in the present legislative proposal, this regulation has disappeared again. Can the Secretary of State explain why this was chosen? The VVD considers it undesirable for this to happen, and that is why Mr Van den Berg will also be tabling an amendment on this point on behalf of the VVD. All right, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to close with a personal note. I am proud that I am allowed to stand here and represent the Dutch. I can't imagine anything else that's more beautiful at the moment to do, namely to represent Dutch people here in this beautiful parliament to work with you and those Dutch people to make the Netherlands a little more beautiful, day by day and step by step. So that's what we're gonna put our shoulders on. Well, it was a special moment; I have three minutes left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. Head's off. Congratulations to me, too. It was a very enthusiastic story. I propose that we suspend the sitting very briefly so that the congratulations can be expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would, of course, like to congratulate the Secretary of State on this position and wish her every success for the future. We hope for a pleasant cooperation with the Chamber. As my colleague Mr Weverling pointed out, today we are talking about the Law on the exchange of information on surface and underground networks and networks. For viewers at home and in the gallery, this is about implementing a European directive that aims to boost the fast internet in Europe by reducing the cost of building broadband networks. This should help achieve the objectives of the Digital Agenda, which all Europeans will have access to faster internet of 30 megabits per second or more by 2020. The CDA group finds fast internet throughout the Netherlands and especially in the outskirts, where it is often left behind, very important and has been hard on it for a long time. Fast internet is a prerequisite for the entire Dutch economy to remain competitive with the rest of the world. More and more systems that entrepreneurs have to deal with only work well with fast internet. High-speed internet is also important for enabling digital education development in schools, providing remote care, improving the quality of life in rural areas and creating opportunities to work well at home. The CDA Group therefore considers it important that this law, which can contribute to this goal, should now be dealt with in the House of Representatives and hopes for a rapid follow-up. Can the Secretary of State give an assessment when the law enters into force if both Chambers agree to this law? The CDA Group agrees with the main thrust of this law. However, there are still two important proposals for improvement in our view. That is why, as my predecessor Arne Weverling pointed out, I tabled two amendments with colleagues from VVD, D66 and the Christian Union. The first amendment concerns the removal of cables. This bill obliges the provider to clean up cables which are not part of the network for a period of 10 years at the request of the person liable. So that means that the owner of the ground can ask the person who laid cables to clean them up. The CDA Group does not consider this proposal to be in line with the aim of the directive, namely to create the internet quickly by promoting the creation of high-speed electronic communications networks. We must therefore also prevent the removal of cables which could be suitable for the roll-out of broadband in the future. In view of the objective of the Directive, removing unused cables suitable for broadband or connecting users to a public electronic network is a form of capital destruction. The CDA Group does not think that this is desirable. Moreover, from the point of view of cost and social nuisance, it is desirable to carry out removal work at a time when other excavation work is already taking place. This prevents the ground from having to open several times. The amendment we are tabling therefore proposes that providers should only be forced to dispose of after 10 years if the condition that this is a reasonable request from the person liable for tolerance is met. According to the applicants, a reasonable request takes into account the above aspects by considering whether the cleaning work can be carried out at the same time as other excavation work or that there is unnecessary excavation. As far as the authors of the amendment are concerned, a request for the disposal of unused cables is reasonable only if the infrastructure is technically simply no longer suitable for broadband or for connecting users to the network, or if the clean-up work can be carried out at the same time as other excavation work, so that there is no unnecessary digging and therefore no capital destruction. We'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response to the amendment. We still have the question of whether the Secretary of State agrees that, if there is agreement between the cable provider and the person liable, that is to say the owner of the land, that the cables do not have to be removed after ten years, there can be no precario charge. From the previous written answer we thought we could make that clear, but for the sake of certainty we would like confirmation. The second amendment concerns the deletion of Article 3.24. This is not about fast internet, but it is proposed in this bill. For viewers at home and in the gallery: this is the payment for the use of cell towers. This is important because consumers will eventually get that price back in their TV programmes. The CDA, like many other parties, has asked several written questions about this. We understand in itself that the government is striving for a uniform co-user regime. However, we do not think that this is an end in itself. Mr Weverling already pointed it out: in 2011 an amendment by VVD and CDA concerning the co-use of antenna set-up points was unanimously adopted. We are getting clear signals from the field that the 2011 amendment is working fine. The tariffs paid by broadcasters for the use of these towers have fallen significantly. There are hardly any disputes over the level of tariffs anymore, and masticians and mast users have been dealing with each other since then in a normalized situation. We therefore do not see sufficient reason to amend the law. That is why we have tabled this amendment. GroenLinks has tabled a similar amendment, but with a different explanation. We would like to point out that the explanatory statement of this amendment is very important so that the amendment actually regulates what is intended. An example of this is that what was previously exchanged in the Eerste Kamer's examination of the Note Frequency Policy 2005, remains relevant for the application of the new Article paragraphs 1a and 1b to be inserted. Today we have chosen to table this amendment separately. Of course, GroenLinks is cordially invited to join us. We would also like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to this amendment. The final question to the Secretary of State is whether she is going to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands has access to the internet as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. He has given up five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, my heartfelt congratulations to the Secretary of State for her new job, and especially, of course, her beautiful portfolio. I'm looking forward to working together. I also think it is very good to see that the Secretary of State has already experienced before her first legal treatment this morning that travelling by train is often faster than travelling by car. I'm probably gonna run into her a little less on that train, but I still think the cooperation's gonna be okay. It is also good that the first law that she deals with is about making telecom networks as soon as possible. The Netherlands is currently champion, in many areas of course, but also in the field of digital connectivity. Of the 28 EU Member States now, the Netherlands is by far the best digitally connected, according to the Digital Economy and Society Index. We just don't see that every day on the street, because that performance is achieved by underground cables and by air communication via antenna masts far beyond our eye range. But with AMS-IX in Amsterdam-Zuidoost we have the largest internet node in the world. We notice this especially when we are on holiday and downloading a video at the campsite feels like a step in prehistory, far away from broadband in Europe's fastest internet country. But there is plenty to do, because the Netherlands must not be governed by the law of the restraining edge. This connectivity is particularly important in the outskirts, where entrepreneurs want to speed up and farmers will soon want to grow crops with smart farming as climate-efficiently as possible. The Netherlands must therefore provide ample space for fast connections and prepare the networks for the future, in which data traffic is far more important and extensive than it is today. We have one very big advantage. Our country is already equipped with more than 1.5 million cables and tubes, for every eleven Dutch people so a cable or a tube. If we handle this optimally, the gap is not a brake but a springboard that gives digitalisation a further boost. That's why it helps to open those tubes, those street cabinets and those cable gutters for anyone who wants to contribute to fast electronic communication. That is why it helps if network companies are not in each other's way and if every new house is natural gas-free, but also broadband-rich. The future consists of 5G, an internet of things and a surgeon in the Utrecht Medical Center who performs a robotic operation in India. The WIBON helps prepare for that future and contributes to the European Digital Agenda. Mrs Van den Berg has just described eloquently what we too want to change in the law. First of all, this is the certainty that a monopoly will not prevent the proper functioning of the market. After all, the highest point in the Netherlands is not the Vaalserberg, but 50 meters higher the Gerbrandy Tower near Lopik. As the Vaalserberg is shared by three countries, the connectivity of cell towers above 100 metres is too exclusive to be exploited without cooperation. The market benefits from reasonable costs for its use. Therefore, it is necessary to restore Article 3.24 of the Telecom Act to the WIBON. The obligation to clean up is good, but not if it could be at the expense of opportunities that we do not yet foresee. After all, no one can make phone calls or internet calls with cleaned-up cables. Disposal must therefore be carried out in good consultation and in a coordinated manner. That is why we are tabling these amendments with the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union, and I also believe that GroenLinks. Then I see a beautiful coalition behind this. Two more questions to the Secretary of State, first of all about the fact that a high-speed communications network is currently defined as 30 megabits per second in Europe. That was quite fast once, but in the Netherlands of 2017 that is not enough anymore. According to the Digital Agenda, every European household, from Lapland to Cyprus, should be at this speed by 2020. That doesn't mean that this definition of the law says so much anymore. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work at European level to increase this obsolete definition of what a high-speed communications network is? Finally. European law excludes drinking water networks from the obligation to open up telecommunications. Water companies are now concerned that the WIBON does not adequately anchor this exception and that it may create risks to hygiene and drinking water quality if telecoms and drinking water use the same network. I don't think that's wise. I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that, even with the adoption of the WIBON, there will be no question of this. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. I would very much like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. He gave up six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State. It's a beautiful wallet. There's a lot to do, too. We know that a handful of companies will benefit from abolishing the dividend tax, but a large number, 1.7 million companies in the Netherlands, face a VAT increase and higher rates in box 2. So many companies are going to expect a lot from you: what are you going to mean to them in the coming years? I wish you every success in that. I'm sure we'll talk about it at other times. As colleagues have already explained in detail, today we are talking about a legislative proposal that regulates something that I believe we can all be in favour of, namely contributing to Internet speed and availability and good broadband connections in the Netherlands, and also dealing with it in a bit of a practical way without creating too much nuisance for citizens and businesses. Perhaps it is good to remind you that it is simply a European agreement that we implement in the Netherlands with this law. One of the advantages of a European Union is to promote harmonisation in this area as well and to further the digitisation of Europe. When I look at the content of the law itself, I notice a few things. One is to create an exception for critical national infrastructure, when it comes to information exchange. For example, I can also imagine anything about airports and there is talk about other installations. There's one I'd like to take out and that's the satellite ground station in Burum, Friesland. That station operates at a frequency of 3.5 gigahertz and that is a frequency that will be crucial for the roll-out of 5G in the Netherlands. If this rapid roll-out is to take shape, then something must happen to Burum, because now the story is that above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line no 5G can be rolled out as long as that station is there. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how far her department's talks with Defense about what to do with the satellite station and how to deal with the coordination between that station and other infrastructure in the field of digitisation. Then this bill, the WIBON, actually regulates something in another law, namely the Telecommunications Act. Colleagues have also said a lot about this. There is an article, Article 3.24, which is suddenly deleted in this legislative proposal. The strange thing is that the history of that article lies in an amendment adopted unanimously by this Chamber. He realized that you can't just place those very high cell towers in the Netherlands. That can only happen in a few places and in fact you have a monopoly position. This is a very different situation than with smaller cell phone towers. I, and I think a majority of the Chamber, do not quite understand what was actually the argument for including this in this bill. However, reference is made to a ruling made by OPTA, the predecessor of the ACM, in the past, that it might lead to a complex remuneration standard. That was an opinion prior to the legal process and the amendment at the time. My question is what the ACM actually thinks about it at the moment. Has it caused any problems in practice at all? Have there been any disputes? Did the ACM have to do anything? As far as I know, but I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. All in all, there are really no reasons why this should suddenly change. We have also discussed in committee at the time of formation what it must mean to deal with this bill, whether controversial or not. Then it was said that we are not doing it, and this is a difficult point, but we are only tabling an amendment to it. We all did. I see that the amendment I have tabled is identical in substance to that of the coalition. In my view, the explanatory statement also refers to the same legal treatment in both chambers. For the sake of the constructive attitude of GroenLinks, who sees that the coalition regulates it in its wisdom in a way that appeals to us, I am willing to co-sign Mrs van den Berg's amendment and withdraw my amendment. I hope the Secretary of State will also realise that this is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	Perhaps I could ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	I will look at the other authors to see if the agreement is that Mr Van der Lee will be included in the other amendment. That's the case. That saves another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you for that. In conclusion, I have only one question. We all agree on the importance of high-speed broadband connections. I also think that we all want 5G to be introduced as soon as possible. It is not just about the data quantity, it is also about reducing the delay factor very much. When we have self-driving cars, everything has to be able to communicate with each other without delay, almost at a real-life pace. That's incredibly important. I've already made a point of that. But there is still a group of Dutch who still barely enjoy 4G or 3G. We're talking about half a million Dutch people. This was also evident recently from a piece in the NRC. I ask the Secretary of State what is going on with this last group, those half a million Dutch people who are not yet able to make use of that speed. How are we going to do that as soon as possible, preferably during this reign? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. Then I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV. She gave up four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today is based on a Brussels directive. This so-called Broadband Directive should contribute to the EU target that everyone will have access to faster internet by 2020. This Directive should reduce the cost of building a high-speed broadband connection. Brussels wants to do so by requiring Member States to allow network operators managing the infrastructure to make this infrastructure available to broadband network providers on reasonable terms. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. To what extent are the costs of building a high-speed broadband connection actually reduced for the Netherlands as a result of the implementation of this Directive? Can the Secretary of State put a price on that yet? And how does this relate to the additional administrative burden that the implementation entails? Do I understand correctly that any company that wants to build a fast internet cable will have the right, with some exceptions, to use this infrastructure and thus possibly have an impact on the execution of planned civilian works? Does this not make our infrastructure de facto a bit of public EU ownership, which means that we are no longer even in control of the cables that we have built underground on our own territory? My question is therefore: are there any risks involved in this? And to what extent does the transposition of this Directive affect the right of ownership of persons and companies affected by the measures provided for in this Directive? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of other questions. Most of the Netherlands have fast internet access, but there are also areas left behind. Can the Secretary of State explain to me to what extent this bill can contribute to faster internet access, especially in rural areas in the Netherlands? I'd like some concrete practical examples. What exactly is the current practice, which is regulated by this proposal, and what is new? And what concrete effects does the Secretary of State expect from this bill? Can it give practical examples for which the new law will be a solution? Fast internet sounds nice, of course, but EU interference sounds a little less to my group. My main question is therefore whether the implementation of this directive is necessary or whether there is unnecessary EU interference in matters that we could also regulate in the Netherlands. What problems does this law solve for the Netherlands exactly? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. I see a number of Members want to interrupt. I think Mr Paternotte was the first. He lets Mr. Van der Lee go first. Mr Van der Lee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have a question for the member of the PVV Group. That's because I've often had a discussion with PVV spokesmen in another field about the next question. If there is an EU directive on something that needs to be implemented in the Netherlands, what does that ultimately mean for the voting behaviour of the PVV? Many measures to tackle tax avoidance are not supported by the PVV because they result from an EU directive. Do you take that view in all areas? Or can the Secretary of State still convince you that you will eventually vote in favour of this implementing law, despite the fact that it is an implementation of an EU directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	As the honourable Member knows, the PVV ultimately wants to leave the European Union. I am therefore already very critical of all EU directives, regulations and any other legislation that comes towards the Netherlands. That should also be the case for colleagues here, because the risk of this implementation is that there is some sort of sliding scale. It is often not a single directive, but it is part of a larger package. But we are talking here today about the Broadband Directive. We are also in favour of faster internet access, but I do have a specific question for the Secretary of State as to what exactly is going to solve the implementation of this directive for the Netherlands. Are we not in the process of implementing a directive that mainly solves problems of, for example, countries in Eastern Europe, which are somewhat behind in infrastructure and high-speed connections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	My conclusion is that Mrs Maeijer is still holding open whether she is going to vote in favour of this law. I'm just waiting to see how this is going to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	This wasn't a question. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	I would like to ask what Mrs Maeijer thinks of the amendments tabled. Can she go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	No, I'm afraid I can't go into that, because I haven't been able to study them yet. When I get them, I'll be happy to look at them. But I also heard you just now, and you asked a lot of questions about this and asked the Secretary of State for a reply. Following that, I would, of course, like to know from the Secretary of State what she thinks of the amendments, but above all what the underlying idea is to do in the legislative proposal exactly the opposite of what you are proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	You are probably familiar with Article 3.24 of the Telecom Act and the possibilities it offers to promote co-use on high cell towers. Do you think it's a good idea to restore that article to the WIBON?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u26	However, I would like to have the text of your amendment in front of me before I give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs 15 minutes to prepare her response. I suggest we start again at 11:30 sharp. I ask the Secretary of State if she can also give her appreciation of the amendments tabled in the first period. We are also trying to catch up in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u28	I would very much like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by congratulating Mr Weverling. From my own experience, I can tell you that five years after that, you still know what your maiden speech was about. That indicates what a special moment that is. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal before us is an implementation of the broadband cost reduction directive. The aim of this Directive is to reduce the costs of establishing broadband. The Netherlands attaches great importance to broadband availability in Europe and supports Europe's ambition to reduce broadband construction costs. A high-quality infrastructure is important for economic development. This bill is one of the instruments contributing to this. The situation in the Netherlands is particularly favourable when it comes to the availability of fast internet. At the beginning of 2015, 97% of households and 91% of businesses had access to a 30 Mbps fixed internet connection. Those are things you always read like that, but when you get to deal with them as Secretary of State at some point, you think: what does that actually stand for? So that stands for 30 megabits per second. First of all, I would like to comment on the measures contained in the legislative proposal to implement the directive. Next, I will zoom in on the two important points that are going on: firstly, the obligation to clean up unused telecommunications cables and, secondly, the standard of remuneration for broadcasting towers. These are also the two subjects on which the amendments are concerned. The legislative proposal further boosts the development of broadband networks by making more efficient use of existing infrastructure. This reduces the cost of establishing broadband networks. Indeed, the excavation work involved in the construction of the site entails high costs for telecommunications companies. That again has consequences for the users. This legislative proposal gives telecom providers the right to co-use the physical infrastructure of other network operators, such as energy managers, port companies and sewerage companies. Telecom providers may use, for example, cable gutters, mantle tubes, street cabinets and masts from those companies. These network operators may claim a reasonable remuneration for their co-use. By using existing infrastructure, telecom providers need to dig less. The co-use of infrastructure, such as broadcasting masts and antenna points by telecom providers among themselves, was already regulated. This legislative proposal therefore provides that co-use can also be requested from other network operators such as energy and gas managers and port companies. In practice, I also see good examples of this, such as the construction of glass fibre through sewage pipes. This allows, in certain cases, external areas to be connected to fiberglass. Defence fuel lines, which are no longer used, are also used for the construction of a glass fibre network. The legislative proposal can further support this practice, which will allow this type of initiative to emerge more effectively. Another measure to reduce excavation costs is the coordination of civil works, such as the construction of a sewer or a tunnel. This means that telecom providers may request other network operators to coordinate the execution of civil works. This may include, for example, sharing planning on when civil works are carried out. That way, the ground only needs to be broken once. Thus savings are achieved and nuisances for residents are limited. We all know that feeling that you're groping like on your street to your idea for the third time that six months the ground opens. Whether that feeling always fits with the facts is, of course, the question, but this is the importance that lies behind it. The bill obliges the network operator to provide information to telecom providers about their networks. In this way, telecom providers can better assess whether a request for co-use or co-ordination of a civil work is also appropriate. For example, the telecoms provider may request information on the location and characteristics of a network. There is already a well-functioning information exchange system of the Land Registry, the so-called KLIC system, which is used by network operators to prevent grave damage. In order to minimise the burden on network operators, this information system will also be used for the exchange of information in the context of co-use and the coordination of civil works. Finally, this legislative proposal amends the so-called obligation to tolerate unused cables. When I saw the word "tolerance" in this file for the first time, I wondered what this meant. Are we talking about the classic tolerance that we often discuss here? But the word 'tolerance obligation' must be read more as 'acceptance obligation' here. As a landowner, you have to accept that there are cables in there. The amendment will prevent a landowner, such as a municipality, from levying precario tax on telecommunications lines which have not been used for ten years on 1 January. In practice, the main issue is the spare capacity of empty tubes, which was built by telecom providers at the end of the 1990s. These empty tubes could be charged precario as of 1 January 2018. This is prevented by the adjustment of the tolerance obligation. This provides a good package of measures for telecom providers to reduce the cost of creating high-speed networks. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the questions raised by Members of the Chamber. Mr Weverling of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked how municipalities would be informed of the changes that this law brings about. The question was: can you clearly indicate how the Ministry points out to the municipalities the advantages of maintaining and expanding underground connections? There has been consultation with the large municipalities on the consequences of this bill. Also spoken with the Municipal Platform Cables and Guides. They are also closely involved in the agreements to be worked out on the implementation of the obligation to clean up. From these conversations it becomes clear that municipalities see the importance of fast internet. It concerns their citizens and the entrepreneurs in those municipalities. Local authorities also have an important role to play, especially where the market is not moving sufficiently. Of course, we will continue to discuss this with municipalities in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Mr Weverling asked if I could explain why the choice was made to replace the Schaart/Verburg amendment with the standard in the directive. Mr Van der Lee of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has also asked this question. The legislative proposal has chosen to introduce a uniform co-use regime based on the rules of the Directive. This has the advantage that it applies the same rules to all parties, including the same remuneration. The European Directive requires that the price charged for co-use should be fair and non-discriminatory. In terms of social standards, the price must also be transparent. This guarantees that a reasonable price will be charged for the co-use of a cell tower. My expectation is that the effects of the new standard will be limited in practice. However, there is an amendment signed by at least four parties. I shall come back to this question in the assessment of that amendment. Then Mr Weverling asked whether a municipality could lift precario after a request for the disposal of unused cables. A request for clean-up has the effect of requiring the provider to clean up the infrastructure. If a taxable person has made a request for the disposal of unused cables, but agrees to a request from the supplier to leave a part of the cables, the obligation to tolerate this part of the cables shall remain. For cables that do have to be cleaned up, the following applies. If the offeror fails to comply with the request, the ACM may impose an administrative penalty or periodic penalty payment. Then precario can also be levied. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, these were the questions of the VVD Group. I come now to the questions raised by the CDA Group. Can an assessment be made of when the law enters into force? The aim is an early entry into force. The consequences I have just mentioned also give rise to this. I am committed to bringing this law into force by 1 January at the latest. For this, it is, of course, necessary for both chambers to agree to the legislative proposal. What is the reaction to the amendment on the removal of cables? Mr President, you asked me whether I would like to respond in the first place. I'll be sure to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u30	Can you give me the number, too? Is that number 9 or number 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u31	That is a good question, Mr President. I think it is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u32	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u33	Yeah, number 10. No, number 9. This is about the reasonable request to remove cables.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u34	Number 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u35	Number 9. This amendment touches on a complex issue involving different interests. There is the importance of the telecom provider to reduce the costs of broadband construction. I also see the importance of landowners, such as municipalities and Rijkswaterstaat, who should at some point be able to ask the telecom provider to clean up the cables that are no longer being used. It's very crowded in some places. It is important that land owners have effective tools to ensure that the subsurface can be used efficiently and sustainably. With the proposal, the obligation to clean up remains intact in itself. In addition, precario levy is prevented. This reduces the pressure on telecom operators to clean up usable cables because of this precario threat, which costs money. That is why it does justice to all the interests involved. I note that, despite this, there is a concern in the Chamber that telecom providers may be faced with unreasonable requests for clean-up. The amendment states in which case a request for clean-up is reasonable. These different aspects can be taken into account in determining whether there is a reasonable request. The aspects mentioned in the amendment are also important, such as preventing capital destruction. The inclusion of a reasonable clause in the law has the risk that any clean-up request will be contested and that this will make it more difficult for the person liable to tolerate to clean up. My expectation is that parties can come out of this together in practice. The parties have already initiated this process. The telecom companies, together with ProRail, Rijkswaterstaat and the Municipal Platform Kabels and Leidingen, have established the principles for further implementation of the obligation to clean up. The aspects mentioned in the amendment, such as the prevention of capital destruction and the carrying out of excavation work at the time of any other excavation work, are part of this. Those are therefore also part of the weighting whether a request is reasonable. The making of agreements is supported by the ministries of EZK, Infrastructure and Water State and BZK. I therefore trust that this will work well in practice. At the same time, I note that the aim of the amendment is to achieve the same objective, namely that all parties concerned are expected to be reasonable in the case of clean-up requests. That is why I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Mrs van den Berg has asked whether it is right that no precario can be levied if there is agreement between the supplier and the person liable for tolerance that cables do not need to be removed after ten years. That's right. If a taxable person has made a request to clean up unused cables but agrees with the offeror's request to leave a part of the cables, then the obligation to tolerate this part of the infrastructure remains and therefore no precario can be levied. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second amendment, item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u36	Number 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yes. This concerns the deletion of Article 3.24. The bill opts for a uniform co-use regime, with the same rules for all parties, including the same remuneration. That remuneration is linked to the reasonable remuneration provided for in the Directive. The directive requires that the price charged for co-use should be fair and non-discriminatory. In terms of social standards, the price must also be transparent. This guarantees that a reasonable price will be charged for the co-use of a cell tower. The impact of the new standard is expected to be limited in practice. But I see that the groups of CDA, VVD, D66 and ChristenUnion would like to retain the current remuneration for sharing cell towers, now that it is working well in practice. Like you, I would like a regime that works well in practice and I do not want any unnecessary new discussions to arise. I understand the amendment in such a way that it is intended to maintain the current legal text of Article 3.24, as well as the explanation given to it concerning the inclusion of vacancy in the determination of the remuneration during the First Chamber's examination of the article. I have no fundamental objections to this and leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u38	We have two amendments so far. The first is the amendment to item No. 9 (34739); that is Judgment Chamber. The second is the amendment to item No. 10 (34739). The debate exchanged the view that GroenLinks is a co-subsidiator of this. Of that, the appreciation is also Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u39	Correct, Chairman. We're gonna do it right, just the two of us. The group of the CDA raised the question of whether I intend to ensure, in the coming cabinet period, in cooperation with the Chamber, market parties, local authorities and residents, that the whole of the Netherlands has access to the fast internet as soon as possible. The representatives of GroenLinks and D66 also asked for this, also in line with the article that was in the NRC last Saturday. I think it is important that all households and businesses have access to the internet quickly. This is important not only for access to digital services, such as public services, but also for social and social participation. The Netherlands is already doing very well. The availability of both fixed and mobile fast internet is high in the Netherlands. The mobile networks in the Netherlands offer almost complete 4G coverage. It is estimated that around 97% of households have access to a fixed, high-speed Internet connection. The role of the government in this is to create the right framework conditions for a well-functioning telecom market, which invests, innovates and meets the needs of citizens and businesses. For example, market regulation policies aim to reduce barriers to entry and to promote alternative providers to enter the market. I am further in conversation with stakeholders about developments and challenges related to digital connectivity in the Netherlands. I also deal specifically with the problem of the outside world, because it is important that the addresses in the outside world also have fast internet access. Efforts by market players, governments, including the government and citizens' initiatives are making it possible for more and more addresses in the off-site area to have fast internet access. All parties have an important role to play in this. Resident initiatives can ensure that there is sufficient demand and make it attractive for market players to build fibre without public funding. For example, we see this in Overijssel, Gelderland and North Brabant. Since 2015, market participant CIF has connected around 50,000 addresses in the outside area and another 50,000 addresses have a short-term view of connection. Where the market is not moving sufficiently, local authorities have an important role to play. For example, the province of Groningen grants subsidies to market players for the connection of 14,000 addresses. I think it is important that the developments and dynamics outlined are given room. In addition, I see a facilitating role for myself. I am working with governments to create good conditions for a market participant to roll out. Where governments intend to provide support, I also think with them. I quickly organise the knowledge platform internet for governments and exchange knowledge and experiences. I also make frequency space available for alternative networks, the so-called fixed-wireless networks. I will inform the Chamber next year about the challenges of digital connectivity across the Netherlands and, of course, also specifically address the outdoor area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u40	I see an interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u41	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. The Secretary of State gave an example of a province that also makes it financially possible to bring people who live very far away, because it is not attractive for market players to regulate this. I hear the Secretary of State talking about the facilitating role of the government. But is that going to happen financially if it becomes too expensive for provinces with many rural areas at some point to finance it? Can the Empire help in the situations where it's gonna get really bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u42	As I have just indicated, we have a facilitating role in this. I have just explained that I am thinking with governments to create good conditions for a market participant to roll out. I organise a knowledge platform fast internet for governments and exchange knowledge and experiences. I have discussions within Europe to see whether State aid rules are unnecessarily frustrating for such initiatives. That's the facilitating role I see. I do not think it is the case that the Empire is making money available to make the actual connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u44	That is, in fact, all right, and I welcome that in itself. But it is precisely the situation in which a province is no longer able to finance it and the market is totally unwilling to make that investment. I would nevertheless like to suggest to the Secretary of State to consider a form of funding to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can use broadband, because that is extremely important for the future of our entire economy, especially if we want to make it sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, that's one way to look at it. At the same time, I note that it was no longer necessary, for example in Overijssel, Gelderland and North Brabant, where the province initially wanted to play that role, because a market party jumped into that hole. That market participant is CIF, which consists of a bank and pension organisations. So, I think, it's better to see how that can be organized in a different way before the Empire has to jump back in. So far this has not been the policy and has not proved necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues her speech. I think only a few questions have not been answered. I'm saying this for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'm moving on. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked a question about the satellite station in Friesland with a view to rolling out the 5G network. Market parties need a 3.5 gigahertz band, if I say so. This band is already available for mobile communications, but the use of the band is restricted by the Ministry of Defence using this band for security reasons. The result is that it is more costly to use the 3.5 gigahertz band than if this restriction did not apply and also that the band cannot be used at all above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line. Mr Van der Lee asked about the consultation with the Ministry of Defence. At the moment, I cannot say more than that this consultation is still taking place with the aim of optimising the use of the band for mobile communications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u48	I see another question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u49	I have a question and a suggestion. I'd like a timeline. Can the Secretary of State give an indication of when we will be given a ruling as a Chamber on this matter? It is really crucial for the roll-out of 5G that that band becomes available. Then there's my suggestion. The new Secretary of Defense has also been the King's Commissioner in a province that would really be cut across. That's why I think you're gonna find a willing ear with the Minister. I commend you to have that conversation with great energy and great speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u50	In my opinion, the cabinet is made up of very modern people who support the importance of fast internet, both fixed and mobile. The Minister of Defence also has, of course, the importance of defence in mind. The conversation continues. I cannot now see whether you have already been informed about the roll-out and procurement of the 5G network. If that is not the case, and I see you all shaking no, I will ensure that you are informed, together with the different moments in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr Van der Lee, that is a good promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you for that. I think it would be very good, if I may, to give a final update on the budget. Then we can discuss this issue at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think that's a logical question from a Member of Parliament. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u54	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr Van der Lee explained to us how important this 5G network is. I can only endorse that. The Netherlands has almost full 4G coverage. We intend to draw up a cover requirement for mobile operators, I say in beautiful Dutch. He also asked, but perhaps it was the D66 group, if I am prepared to argue in Europe to raise the target for 2020, that everyone should have 30 megabits per second. It's already a goal to make it 100 megabits per second. By setting an objective, of course, you have not achieved this without reason, certainly not Europe-wide, but, as I said in my introduction, as you have all stressed, it is of the utmost importance for the Netherlands that we have fast internet access in all places. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fraction of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u56	I see another interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u57	That was indeed my question. We do not need a faster Internet, but a much faster Internet. It is also important, of course, because it determines what these telecommunications cables can be used for or for which they should be opened up, namely for fast electronic communications. It is good to bring its definition to 100 megabits, but it may well be that by 2020 we will not actually find it sufficient. My question is, therefore, whether you would like to look at a definition that can be seen at this time as fast electronic communications that also meet the relevant questions in the off-site area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u58	As has just been said, the European ambition for 2020 is that everyone can reduce a connection of at least 30 megabits per second. In the Netherlands, 97% of households already have this at their disposal. It is a new ambition to allow everyone to have 100 megabits per second by 2025. In the Netherlands, more than 90% of households already have this at their disposal. I share Mr Paternotte's ambition and the idea that this may not be fast enough, but we also need to see what is feasible. We're not getting along very well with setting a fantastic standard that you're not gonna get along with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u59	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u60	We are not just concerned with ambition. It is also important that in practice the WIBON will lead to the opening up of cables to fast electronic communications. If almost all electronic communications meet the definition of "fast," this definition is extremely low. Maybe it won't help you in East Groningen if you use it. So we are not just concerned with ambition. I think we're gonna raise it. It is also important that the definition of what is fast is consistent with what we find quickly. Then the WIBON also physically does what it wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u61	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u62	The aim of the WIBON is to roll out Breednet for as low a cost as possible. Now we are talking about the ambition to provide the Netherlands with fast internet. As mentioned, 97% of the Dutch already have 30 Mbps. 90% of households have a speed of 100 Mbps. I think it is right that we should discuss with each other what the D66 fraction means by 'fast'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u63	Fine. You're prosecuting. There are still a number of questions to be answered from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u64	Yes, Mr President, but the D66 Group also asked whether I can confirm that the legislative proposal guarantees the importance of hygiene and drinking water. The answer to that is that this is true. It is contained in the bill, namely Article 1.1 of the Telecommunications Act. Mr Paternotte also asked a question about ProRail...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Paternotte wishes to interrupt, but it is useful if you answer all the questions from D66 first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u66	That's good, Mr. Chairman. I was asked to understand ProRail's wish that there should be a coordinated approach to digging. Yes, because that brings great benefits. Combining excavation saves costs and reduces nuisance. The legislative proposal provides for telecom providers to make a request to other network operators to coordinate the execution of civil works. I urge them to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u67	The Secretary of State indicated that drinking water hygiene is guaranteed. That's good. My question was whether it is true that drinking water networks are excluded from the obligation to open up telecommunications. That is the means by which that guarantee is carried out. In the European directive, this has been described in so many words, but as we have now translated it into the WIBON.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u68	The answer to that is yes. Finally, I come to Mrs Maeijer's questions from the PVV Group. What is the point of the bill for rural areas and are there practical examples? The bill allows telecom providers to use existing infrastructure. In the outside area there is always sewers and electricity cables. It can be used to search for combinations. It also asked whether the right to request coordination on the construction of various private works could affect public works. The request for coordination is procedural and planned in nature. For example, if a request does not fit and is not compatible with the planning of a public work, the legislative proposal ensures that the request can also be refused, which is almost logical. The administrative burden of the bill has also been asked. The legislative proposal does not create administrative burdens for the companies concerned. It does not contain any information obligations to the public authorities. A fee may also be applied for for for co-use. They then asked whether this bill would affect the right of ownership. As in the Telecommunications Act, the bill ensures that there is a good balance between, on the one hand, the property rights of the landowner who has to tolerate the infrastructure and, on the other hand, the importance of building a good digital infrastructure. That's what it's been like now. For example, under the Telecommunications Act, the provider is obliged to change the infrastructure if the landowner rightly claims that it is in the way. It is also ensured that unusable infrastructure needs to be cleaned up at some point. This is also reflected in the amendment tabled by Mrs van den Berg and others. In my opinion, this was the last question that was asked as to whether this implementation was necessary for the Netherlands. This proposal is also important for the digital infrastructure in the Netherlands to stay ahead in Europe. Let us not forget that it is also in the interests of the Netherlands that there is also the fast internet in other European countries. We depend to a large extent on our exports in terms of prosperity and it is therefore also in the interests of our companies that they can use the same facilities abroad as those in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you very much. I'll take a look at the members. I don't have the idea, but I'm still checking to see if there's a need for a second term. I see now that there is no need for that. That brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate for her first debate in this Chamber and congratulate her on it; it is always exciting, but I think her baptism of fire has succeeded. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, as well as the people in the public gallery and the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u70	The votes on the amendments tabled will take place next Tuesday.
