ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the effects of nitrogen emissions on nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands. I welcome once again the Minister for Economic Affairs and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Eggs bowls of cabbage tits falling apart and chicks with broken legs due to lime deficiency: is that a sad but single fact? If it were, I would not have asked for a debate on it, but it is not on its own. It is a symptom of a considerable problem, namely the far too high precipitation of nitrogen on our soil. This causes acidification and fertilization of the soil, which has a disastrous effect on the wealth of plants and animals, our natural capital, which is sometimes referred to as 'biodiversity' with too expensive a word. Acidification leads to the leaching of important minerals, including lime, with a direct negative effect on plants and animals. Fertilisation leads to the suppression of many plant species by those few species that thrive at a high nitrogen content. At the same time, it also changes chemistry in plants and trees with negative effects on plant-eating caterpillars, insects and so on. That's how you see these effects going through the whole food chain. It is a sneaking process of loss of species wealth, plants and animals. It's a process that's been going on for a long time, but it's still going on. After all, we still emit much more nitrogen than our nature can handle. Nitrogen comes down in two forms, one as nitrogen oxides and the other as ammonia and ammonia-related compounds. The nitrogen oxides come from transport, power plants and industry, let me just say: from the exhaust. The ammonia comes for the excess, mostly from the manure. And that ammonia makes up roughly two thirds of the total nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands. Field measurements show that the precipitation of ammonia has not decreased on average since 2004, but has not since 2004. It may even have risen again in the last two years. By the way, this is happening with very large regional differences. For example, in the Dwingelderveld, one of our most important wet heathlands in Drenthe, ammonia deposition increased by 40% between 2010 and 2015. Everyone who's ever been there knows how beautiful it is there, but it's also a very nitrogen-sensitive area. The total nitrogen deposition is falling but very slowly and this is entirely due to nitrogen oxide. According to RIVM's forecasts, we're going back to pack him 25 kilos in 2030, while the vast majority of our nature can only handle 10 to 20 kilos of nitrogen per hectare per year. We only get that around 2045 and in the meantime the nitrogen accumulates further in the soil. Nature restoration is therefore a form of mopping with the tap open. Even then, it makes sense to do so. We put a lot of money into it but that has a one-time effect that is overshadowed by the continuing deposition. Mr President, I will conclude with four brief questions. 1. Is the Minister prepared to carry out an independent mid-term evaluation on the functioning of nitrogen policy? 2. Is the Minister prepared to undertake further research into the long-term effects of long-term high nitrogen emissions? 3. The national nitrogen monitoring report for 2016 is not yet available. Can we expect them soon? And does the Minister want to send it directly to the Chamber? Finally. A package of reserve measures would be agreed within the framework of the PAS. How's that going? Is this package already in place and when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has just had an extensive debate with the Minister on the impact of livestock on the climate. Now we're talking about the effect of the livestock on nature, so locally. We could also talk about the impact on public health. Let me mention just one thing, because there are plenty of subjects you can talk about and all of which, unfortunately, have a link with intensive livestock farming. But we are also talking about manure and its consequences. The intensive livestock farming causes, produces huge amounts of manure. The ammonia from that manure causes acidification of the soil and lays a blanket of nitrogen over nature and its surroundings. This causes great damage to that nature. Plant species disappear because of that nitrogen or are overgrown by nettles, for example, because they do like nitrogen. That knowledge is not new. What is new, and the immediate cause for this debate, is a study that shows in detail what the effect of ammonia emissions on animals is on the Veluwe, and that effect is dramatic. Investigators were looking at cabbage tits. As a result of ammonia acidification, the lime balance of these birds is completely disrupted. The eggs they lay have a much thinner shell due to lack of lime and therefore dry out very quickly. Many chicks die from dehydration that way in the egg. If eggs do hatch, the chicks have much weaker bones due to lack of lime. Those birds are dead and die young. These ammonia emissions are therefore a major problem. The cabinet likes to refer to the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen (PAS) as a measure. The Secretary of State also did so in his letter of 6 July, but the PAS does not prevent those harmful effects on nature. That should not surprise anyone, because the PAS is primarily intended to enable the economic development of livestock farming. If we really want to protect the fragile nature and animal and plant species in the Netherlands, we must do something about the source of the emissions: this huge amount of manure. 76 billion kilos of manure per year according to CBS. That is 4,500 kilos per Dutchman or 35 bathtubs full of manure for every Dutchman. An incredibly large amount with a disruptive effect on nature. According to the Compendium for the Environment, 85% of indigenous animal and plant species have disappeared in the Netherlands. Nowhere in Europe has biodiversity deteriorated more than in the Netherlands. Each study points to intensive livestock farming as one of the main causes. If we want to protect something from the fragile nature, if we want to prevent nature from becoming more acidified, if we want to ensure that biodiversity is growing rather than shrinking, if we want to ensure that birds get healthy chicks again, we will have to intervene at the source. We're gonna have to get to fewer animals. The Netherlands is too small for the huge numbers of animals we keep and the effects on the nature of ammonia emissions are too large to go further on this scale. Mr President, I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u5	There is another interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u6	I think that in three minutes you can pour so much misery over the Netherlands, but the question I have to ask the Party for Animals is the next one. Lime deficiency in cabbages, is that true for the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u7	I can now tell you what's happening on the Veluwe. The research that this debate is also about is about the Veluwe. There we looked at the emissions from intensive livestock farming. That's ammonia coming out. That's an acidic substance. It's getting into the environment. That acidity washes away, among other things, lime. It dissolves and washes away. I do not say the whole of the Netherlands, but I say it in the vicinity of intensive livestock farming and the livestock industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u8	In her speech, the Party for the Animals cites one small area where other reasons for a lime deficiency can also be found, and that is what they position all over the Netherlands. Well, I can tell you that Sovon indicated that there's nothing going on with kale tits and pimple tits, and I'm quoting one of Sovon's people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u9	There are areas where there is more intensive livestock farming and areas where there is less intensive livestock farming. There are also areas with a lot of traffic, but that is what Mr Grashoff has also said about traffic, which causes nitrogen oxides. They have a very different effect. They can also be harmful, but not in the way ammonia/ammonium is. What I'm talking about is the environment of intensive livestock farming. There's a lot of ammonia emitted there. There the environment is acidifying and there it can be very harmful, even if you look at the place where it is. On the Veluwe the grounds are indeed different from, for example, in Midden-Limburg. Depending on the place it can have that effect, and on the Veluwe it is very harmful. But I didn't say anything about the whole of the Netherlands. I said something about this particular place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr. Chairman. I have three points in this three-minute debate. 1. About measuring. Around the measurement of ammonia, at least in D66, uncertainties have arisen. In that connection, I have four questions. Are we really achieving the NEC objectives without additional measures? How is that possible without the ammonia concentration readings dropping? How do you explain the decline in plant and animal biodiversity? I am talking mainly about nitrogen-avoiding butterflies. How do you assess RIVM's call for additional measurements related to the lack of knowledge of the relationship between ammonia and the health of residents? 2. About the cycle. In connection with ammonia, I often hear the term "air washer." Apart from the fire hazard for pigs, it is also an end-of-pipe solution. Ammonia develops when manure rots instead of ripens. What practical innovations that can make manure a valuable raw material again does the Minister see? Then the bottom. Crops need carbon and nitrogen. In the case of excessive nitrogen fertilization, micro-organisms will digest the organic matter in the soil more quickly and the soil quality will decrease. To what extent is ammonia emissions reduced in the PAS through the promotion of healthy soil? Is this also included in the soil strategy? 3. Finally, on nature monitoring. As the example of the butterflies pointed out, our biodiversity is perhaps the best indicator of nitrogen status. There are 30,000 volunteers in the Netherlands working in nature to map our biodiversity. The Netherlands is world leader and has a long tradition in this. However, government support is minimal. I am not talking about the Network Ecological Monitoring (NEM) on which I hear that the cooperation between OCW and EZ is moderate. I am not talking about the Knowledge Network Development Management Nature Quality (OBN) whose budget is halved around 2008. I'd like a comment, by the way. I am talking about the National Database Flora and Fauna (NDFF). Although the implementation of nature policy is decentralised, the State remains responsible for monitoring. EZ is system responsible. This means that there must be a central knowledge and information network. There must be a sufficient budget for this. Remember that this database is filled by those 30,000 volunteers so that as a government we are in the first place for a dime. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u12	I heard Mr De Groot speak critically about air scrubbers. Those critical words sound like music to me, because there is a lot to note. Is there a change in D66's position now? I understood, also in Brabant, that D66 is basically for air scrubbers, even though there is a lot to note. Mr De Groot referred to an end-of-pipe solution. It could also be said that it is simply a form of symptom control which, moreover, is very often ineffective and susceptible to fraud. Is this a change for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u13	No, D66 is also in Brabant looking for technologies that enable farmers, pig farmers, to meet the standards that D66 has strengthened. Measures to reduce ammonia are preferable. The key to this is better handling of manure. That is also the background to the question to the Minister. The other day, during a work visit to Brabant, I understood that there are very few practical techniques left. And when they get there, the pilots don't get off the ground enough. That is the background to this question. D66 is also for another reason against air scrubbers. In the case of barn fires, they act as a kind of flamethrower. We've seen the horrible images of that. That is, of course, the reason why D66 had previously tabled a motion with the Animal Party, which was then accepted by the Chamber, in which the Cabinet finally announced additional measures which we absolutely welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u14	In the previous debate I had to keep the interruptions a little short, but the answers can also be shorter. Mr Wassenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u15	The fact that Mr De Groot does not believe in air washing and says that this is a technique that is not satisfactory is fine. I do not fully understand the belief in possible other technical solutions. Of course, there is one very easy solution: reduce the number of animals. Then you not only have less emissions, but then you also have better protection of public health and you have the climate effects. Can Mr De Groot respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u16	The difference between D66 and Party for Animals is that fewer animals at D66 is certainly an option where nature reserves and residents are concerned, but it is not, as with the Party for Animals, a solution in search of a problem. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mr. Chairman. As people, we have a responsibility to take care of our environment, and that also means that we have to take into account nature. So we can continue to enjoy the green around us. Fortunately, according to the Planning Bureau for the Environment, nature shows recovery in many places. In view of the nitrogen deposition, we have established the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, which sets targeted maximum levels of deposition for certain areas. This has the effect that some Natura 2000 sites are no longer licensed. In doing so, we require a lot of companies that are based there. On the other hand, it is a legal framework that provides legal certainty. Too bad, therefore, that the province of Brabant uses the PAS to steer far and wide. The province of Brabant will also have to provide legal certainty. Nature policy is decentralised to the provinces because they are closer to the areas and our inhabitants. In the response of the former State Secretary to the report, I read that the provinces intend to take measures to add lime. With these measures, I think: there are ecological trends and nature changes. How do we ensure that measures are robust? My question to the Minister is whether research has been carried out into the addition of lime and the plaguing of forest areas on sand. The Council of State referred questions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling on a number of cases relating to the Programmed Approach to Nitrogen. When is the Court's ruling expected on this matter, now that the Court has indicated that it will deal with these questions as a matter of priority? The Council of State states that the handling of these cases is suspended and further decisions are taken. Does this concern all the decisions on the Programmed Approach Nitrogen? What are the consequences of maintaining these decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr Geurts says here that there is actually no such problem, because we are seeing recovery from nature on all sides. Then he says something that I can do more with, namely that there is something going on in nature. Otherwise, you wouldn't have to add that lime. Would Mr Geurts be prepared to speak with me once again with a number of ecologists in the Netherlands to look very closely at what is going well and what is not going well in nature? I would very much appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u21	I read in the media an interview with Mr Grashoff, in which I think he indicated, quite a quote, that they were standing outside the door to explain it to him. I can imagine, but that's from my perception. I think it is good, if you need to do so, simply by means of the procedural meeting. For it is good that you and I take note of it, I say to Mr Grashoff through the President, but it may also be good for the rest of the Members of Parliament to take note of it. Because the fact is that ammonia emissions have been more than halved in recent decades. It went from 260 kilotons in 1990 to 120 kilotons in 2015. I hope those investigators tell the Chamber that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u22	The advantage of speaking with scientists, especially in this area, is that they can't be used for any cart, not even mine. So what I hear is what they investigate and what they determine. And the overall line is: biodiversity in the Netherlands is bad. And there are indeed exceptions to species with good successes. Oh, thank God. But I accept Mr Geurts' suggestion. I hope he'll back me up. Maybe he can make one more comment on that. We need to have a very solid round table with each other as soon as possible, in which the explanation is given to all of us as to what is really going on with this biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u23	I'd still like to respond to this. I got the quote from the Balance of the Environment 2017. It says literally: "The average quality of the Dutch landscape has recently increased slightly. There are signs of recovery. On the positive side, it has been improving with endangered species since 2005. The red lists are no longer used and the level of threat has decreased on average." Tell that story, too. If you agree with me that the people who adhere to this kind of thing should also be invited, then we need to think again. We all need a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u24	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mr. Chairman. From this place perhaps also a compliment towards the Minister. The agricultural spokesmen often have to deal with all these issues, but the subjects I have heard this evening... much appreciation for the response that has been and is to come. Mr President, I dare say that everyone loves our nature, whether it is to take a walk, to exercise in nature, or simply to enjoy the plants and animals that our nature is rich. We need to be careful with our nature. We are now having a debate tonight on the effects of nitrogen emissions on nature and biodiversity. There are several sources that contribute to nitrogen emissions: traffic, industry. Part of it also comes from abroad. And yes, agriculture also accounts for part of it. The reason for this debate is a research in the North Ginkel area on the Veluwe. That's a relatively small area. The question that arises is therefore whether this study is representative for the whole of the Netherlands. That's the question I'm going to ask the Minister. There have been many developments in recent years. Since 1990 nitrogen emissions have fallen sharply, just as a number of figures have been presented and quoted. In addition, with the introduction of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, an instrument has been introduced to further reduce nitrogen emissions. And although a number of clubs and organisations want us to believe differently, fortunately many parts of it also go well with nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands. For example, the number of mammals in the Netherlands has increased. I'm talking about the trend. Between 1990 and 2015, the number of frogs and toads increased. And also with the number of breeding birds we see a slight increase. And after years of decline we now see more butterflies that are good with. Is that what we're dealing with? No. However, it indicates that the policy direction is slowly but surely progressing. My group does not think it appropriate, on the basis of small surveys in a relatively small area, to call into question the policy and to adapt it time and time again. Of course it's good to keep the finger on the wrist. My question is therefore whether the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen currently provides sufficient tools to steer the right points. Does the PAS still offer room for this important economic development while at the same time taking into account the development of nature? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a densely populated country with many economic activities: trade, industry, agriculture, roads and housing. We get prosperity, jobs and food, but there is also a downside to all these economic activities. According to the European Environment Agency, the Netherlands is second on the list of European countries that emit most nitrogen. Only Germany is doing worse. Nitrogen has a negative impact on biodiversity in our country. For this reason alone, it is important to take measures that really reduce the nitrogen deposition. We can't do that alone. If neighbouring Germany is doing even worse than we are, action must also be taken there. Nitrogen does not respect national borders. That will immediately lead to an interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u28	That abroad, that's always the fault... We live in a country with predominantly west winds. If Mrs Dik-Faber looks closely at the reports, she can see that we export five times as much ammonia deposition abroad as we import. Would Mrs Dik-Faber take that into account in her considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u29	It is correct what Mr Grashoff says: we are net exporter of nitrogen. I also believe that the Netherlands should take measures, but it will also have to do so abroad, because nitrogen is also coming from abroad to our country. Nitrogen does not comply with national borders and this requires an approach on both sides of the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u31	Mr President, that is what I am going to do. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is an important tool to strike a balance between economic development and nature conservation and restoration in our country. We are now seeing the first signs of hope. In most areas there has been a decrease in nitrogen deposition or even a greater decrease than previously anticipated. Stricter requirements for marine emissions to the North Sea and emission reduction measures abroad are the main reasons, I read today in a report by, I believe, the RIVM. Emissions will also fall further in traffic, industry and agriculture. It is important to measure properly and not just to price on model calculations. After all, measuring is knowing. If the measuring network is adequate, I ask the Minister. Are there sufficient measuring points to really assess the impact of policies at field level? Mr. Chairman. Agriculture is an important source of nitrogen, but we can see that agriculture has also taken its responsibility. The ammonia emissions have been more than halved in recent decades. Mr Geurts already indicated: from 260 kilotons in 1990 to 120 kilotons in 2015. This brings the sector under the European standard for ammonia emissions. For the years to come, the sector is committed to a further reduction of at least 10 kilotons. I warmly welcome that. It has already been discussed in the debate that nature policy is decentralised to the provinces. My group is also very much in favour of an area-based approach. I would like to highlight one of these areas: the FoodValley region. The Manifest Healthy Environment Farming, established in the FoodValley region, really shows that the area-oriented approach works. These are innovations that take place on the farmyard. In April of this year, the Chamber adopted my motion to actively support this manifesto, including by improving the practical application of emission reduction techniques in the management of individual entrepreneurs. Of the 21 innovations submitted, 10 have been selected but only 2 can be implemented. Whether all ten innovations can ultimately be tested depends on the cooperation of the municipalities, the province of Gelderland and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. My final question is: can the Minister promise that at least the Empire is not the obstacle here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u33	Mrs Dik-Faber is in favour of decentralised policies and the territorial approach. I can find a lot in that. But how does it point out, for example, that at the moment a large number of farmers are suing the province of Brabant precisely with the argument that "we are treated differently by provincial policy than farmers across the provincial borders"? If that's how you're gonna think, aren't you basically undermining the whole area-oriented policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u34	An area-based approach helps enormously to bring together people representing economic interests, people representing nature interests and people representing the government. This is not with all kinds of laws and regulations, which are made at national level, but with local or regional solutions. What has now happened in Brabant is that impossible demands have been made on livestock farming, with the support of the fraction of SP, which will lead to the survival of capital-intensive farms, also those producing for a specific segment, and that the entire middle segment will disappear. I'm not proud of that. I really think this is an example of how a county administration should not act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u35	Not only with the support of the SP group, but also with the support of the SP driver sitting there. Mrs Dik-Faber has said something very important to me. Indeed, she says "for me, an area-based approach is not legislation and regulation," and I think we are going to talk more about area-based approaches in the future. If you do not say that you are going to frame an approach to ensure that it is respected, you are actually mainly talking regionally with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u36	Let's not underestimate it either. There is a regional dialogue, but solutions are also being found at regional level. But not with laws and regulations. That's something we discuss here on a rich level. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Previously, years ago, in a previous life, I was a policy officer in rural areas at a medium-sized province. In that province were many relatively small Natura 2000 sites, the top nature areas of the Netherlands, one could say, and there were also quite a lot of intensive livestock farms, often very close together. That caused a lot of trouble. The quality of the natural areas was severely under pressure and on the other hand agricultural holdings were not granted permissions to protect nature, to the frustration of the provincial government, that my interpretation was still somewhat directed towards traditional agriculture. Agriculture and nature held each other in a grip in practice. The situation seemed hopeless to us county officials. You may know, Mr President, that it is not so much fun in provincial houses in general, especially when people are under such pressure. But there was awe whispering in the dusty provinces: "a solution!" A solution glorified on the horizon: the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. He'd solve all our problems. Economics and ecology hand in hand, the cabbage and the goat both spared. Now we have the PAS and we have to look at reality. The PAS has created economic space but hardly contributed to the achievement of European nature objectives. We chose economics over ecology. The cabbage and the goat are not spared. Although I have to admit that since the introduction of the PAS, the number of goats in the Netherlands has increased considerably, but that is not related. The reality is that in a densely populated country with vulnerable nature and a nitrogen-producing livestock sector, you cannot keep ducking away from difficult choices. Not only talk about mitigation measures, but also about nitrogen reduction. Sometimes the economy is either ecology, and ecology is losing. Mr. Chairman. That's not only sad, but at times it's even grotesque. We know of the example that tens of thousands of euros of corhoenders are exported annually from Sweden to the Sallandse Heuvelrug, where the soil is now so sour that there are too few insects, which means that there is no food for the hives and every year there are korhoenders dying of hunger. That is a rather absurd situation that is now being maintained. Mr. Chairman. We need a PAS with new starting points, based not only on stopping further deterioration in Natura 2000......................................................................................................................................................... For this, a reduction in nitrogen deposition is crucial, and we do not escape to look at agriculture as the largest producer of nitrogen. Mr. Chairman. In addition to addressing the source problem of nitrogen, it is also worth looking at the process of managing Natura 2000 sites. I would like to dwell briefly on that. I would point out that, when the Nature Conservation Act entered into force in 2005, it was intended to establish management plans for all Natura 2000 sites within three years. Now there are many reasons why this process has been delayed, but still. It is 2017 and there are still many areas without a defined management plan and some seem to be far from it. As far as the SP is concerned, that is an unacceptable situation and we will ask the Minister for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u39	There is another interruption by Mr Geurts for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u40	In the beginning I heard Mr Futselaar say something about Brabant. Is Mr Futselaar really so proud of what happened in Brabant? The nitrogen is removed from agriculture and then transported to other branches. It goes to industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u41	It is not a debate on the specific situation in Brabant, but I would like to comment on that. Like probably everyone else here, I've been to Brabant, too. I've been to East Brabant, too. If you look at the current situation in Brabant compared to, for example, twenty years ago, you see something interesting. Twenty years ago, it was people from the city, like me, who said, "I can't do that with livestock farming." If you go there now, you will notice that it is the people from those villages themselves who say: it cannot be done here anymore! The province of Brabant, this provincial government in Brabant, has dared to say: we recognise that it cannot continue in this way and we must start taking action, with the limited resources that we have legally seen. In this respect, I am very much in favour of referring once again to the Animal Possessing Areas Act, which we would like to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u42	That's not an answer to my question. I asked if you were proud of what's going on in Brabant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u43	I have said that I am proud of the fact that the province of Brabant has said: we are drawing a line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u44	I think I was speaking, Mr President. The point is that it's being removed in a bizarre way. The future, the legal certainty of family businesses and family businesses is simply completely wiped out by a provincial government. You are proud of that, as I say to Mr Futselaar through the President. It's just not used for ecology, to use your words. It is not used to balance ecology and agriculture. No, the nitrogen is just spent on roads again or in other ways. Is Mr Futselaar of the SP Group really proud of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u45	I repeat what I have just said: I am proud that the province of Brabant has said that this situation in this region will not remain viable in this way. We are also talking about public health and all the other problems that we are discussing here almost every week when it comes to intensive livestock farming. I am proud that they dared to say: we are setting a line there. Yeah, I'm proud of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u46	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the contributions of the spokesmen. The last thing I want to do is try to talk away the seriousness of problems. I certainly do not want to do that in relation to the problem of depositions that we are talking about today. But it's good to put it in the right perspective. I myself have seen that we were all genuinely concerned about the acid rain and what it had for its effects. That acid rain had several causes. There were several acidifying substances. You have the nitrogen compounds. I believe that Mr Grashoff has already said: you have ammonia and you have nitrogen oxides. Those are the two nitrogen compounds. Besides, you have sulphur dioxide. Then when you see what has happened since that time when I was genuinely concerned with that acid rain with many others, in the eighties. If you see what happened between then and now. The emissions of nitrogen oxides are mainly related to traffic and industry, which has decreased by 61%. There has been a 61% decrease. And now I hear you say: yes, but the emission of ammonia into livestock farming is far worse. No, ammonia emissions have decreased by 64% since the 1980s. This is not a 61% reduction, but a 64% reduction. So that's an even bigger drop. Emissions of sulphur dioxide, SO, have decreased by 85% since the 1980s. I know I am now looking back at the 1980s, but RIVM has also looked at the situation for nitrogen oxides between 2014 and 2030. For that period, they've made calculations. This shows an additional reduction in nitrogen oxides emissions. It goes from 368 kilotons in 2014 to 334 kilotons in 2030. In the same period, ammonia emissions, from NH, fall from 130 kilotons to 118 kilotons. There is therefore also a further continuing decline. It's not just the RIVM that determines this. Even if you look very specifically at the Natura 2000 sites, AERIUS, with which calculations have been made, says that the nitrogen deposition in the Natura 2000 sites decreases by an average of 15%. That is in line with what I have just said about the general decline in the Netherlands. Those are the facts. That's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u48	The Minister presents a number of facts that I share with him. But this is what he's doing. He takes a period in which all the firm, decisive government measures have been taken. Moreover, the European Commission initially extracted lead from petrol in connection with acid rain. Next, the Minister uses all of them to defend that from the beginning of the year 2004 the progress is very small. He says that in so many words, but he hides it in his text. The big profits were achieved until 2004. We know exactly where we're going with this. I've indicated it in my contribution, but that's just where we're going way too slowly. Will the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u49	All I've shown is that I remember how concerned we were about the acid rain. That was the eighties. I'll see what happened then and what's going on now. I'll show you the percentages. Those are facts. The source measures referred to by Mr Grashoff do not come from the sky. Governments have looked at the matter together with sectors. These authorities have set standards, for example for cars and for trucks. Source measures have also been taken for livestock farming. I'm gonna say something about that in a minute. These source measures do not come from the sky, but are also a result of public intervention. The government acts in two ways: with source measures and with recovery measures. That is exactly what needs to be done. I didn't work with selective numbers. I have worked with figures from the 1980s to today and from now to 2030. Then you see that there is a large decline and a further decline in the coming years. I said that, not to get rid of the problem, because there is a problem with the Natura 2000 sites, but I would like to put the problem and developments in the right perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u50	If this cabinet and this minister had been as ambitious as their predecessors in the 1980s to tackle the problem, then the minister would not be so proud of the reality of this moment and the very limited decline that is now being forecast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u51	Yeah, what the hell is this? With all due respect to Mr Grashoff, whom I appreciate very much, what kind of remark is this about my predecessors in the 1980s? We've had a succession of cabinets in those periods. Most of the time the VVD was also in government. This is constantly being rubbed under our noses; let me tell you for myself. We had Winsemius, we had Nijpels, and I'm here these days. If you look at what happened between the eighties and now and what's going to happen between now and 2030, there's a really different picture coming out than Mr Grashoff, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Futselaar have outlined. I don't want to talk it out of it, especially not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u52	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u53	In addition to the NEC Directive, the Netherlands has the NEC standards. Mr De Groot also asked about the NEC ceilings laid down in the European directive. Does the Netherlands comply with this? The answer is: yes, the Netherlands meets this requirement. Apart from the ceilings that apply to the Netherlands as a whole, we are dealing with other directives. They concern Natura 2000 sites. There's 160 of them in the Netherlands. This is covered by the European Birds and Habitats Directives. For these areas, we must also look at the specific situation: what is the picture of the Netherlands as a whole and how does it work for these areas? You will see that 118 of these areas are affected by nitrogen deposition. In fact, for a very small part, they are serious consequences. For the other areas there are consequences. Management plans have been drawn up for this, which include remedial measures. Provinces are responsible for this. They do a good job. These plans are both at the drafting stage and at the implementation stage. It seems to me very good that we should give the Chamber some regular insight into the extent to which all this happens: what are the original agreements in this respect, what are we now in the situation, and is that a reason for doing some extras and, if so, what then? These Natura 2000 sites have been subject to a surplus of nitrogen for a longer period, both in the form of ammonia and nitrogen oxide. If we were to apply this directive without delay, we would have the problem that a great deal of desirable developments, which are also important for our society, could no longer take place in the areas of housing, transport, employment. That is why the Approach Programme has been drawn up, a very well-designed programme, with the result that we comply with the provisions of the directive and can also provide responsible space. That space is not unlimited, but it is formulated and recorded. If that space has been used up, then it has happened and then nothing else can be expanded. That's not something I'd like to accept anyway. Let's see how the next cabinet picks that up. There are other interests, such as the handling of traffic, because people must be able to go to work and employment. If I am in an area where people want to set up a new carpet factory, next to the existing carpet factory, and that cannot be because of what is currently happening here, then we all know that if we do this, then the carpets come from another part of the world. They are made in a much less environmentally friendly way than here in the Netherlands. These are always considerations that I think the cabinet should look at and take a conscious decision on, taking all aspects into account. I have already said that the PAS has source-oriented measures and recovery measures. I have already mentioned remedial measures, but in the case of the source-oriented measures, specifically for agriculture, agreements have been made which have led to the tightening of standards. Those standards are laid down in the maximum emission of ammonia from stables, in the Decision on low-emission housing, the tightening of standards for the use of animal manure in the Fertilisers Decision. Voluntary agreements have also been made by livestock farmers on transport and on management measures in general in a holding. The sector is working hard on further sustainability. It's important that this happens. In addition to the subject we now have, this is also necessary in relation to matters relating to health, particulate matter, animal diseases, climate. That's all relevant. That is what the economy, the business community in the broadest sense, and therefore the agricultural sector, has to do with it. They must always face that and we must rub their noses at what is going on and what they can do about it. We must draw the lines or the boundaries for ourselves, and we have done so. As a result, I think we also have the development I described at the beginning. Mr. Chairman. A number of additional points have been raised by the spokesmen to whom I have the right to reply. I shall begin with Mr Grashoff. He has asked if I am prepared to draw up an independent interim report on nitrogen policy. Mr President, excuse me, but I am allergic to the word 'independent reports', because it is as if there are all prejudiced and dependent people in the Ministry and if we let them do so outside the Ministry, then it will all work out perfectly and then it will be fine. I think that we have in the ministries the people who are genuinely trying to do their high-quality work with a focus on the public interest in such a way that they are able to meet the demands of the parliament, so you are in the wrong place with me for those independent investigations. We have an interim evaluation of the PAS in 2018 and we will ensure that this becomes a proper evaluation. We'll see what we can do ourselves and what we can do externally, but doing it ourselves is certainly not a dirty word for me. In 2020, we will have the evaluation of the PAS as a whole, at the end of one of the three six-year periods. Both evaluations, in 2018 and 2020, we will sincerely do the best we can. Mr Grashoff has also asked if I am prepared to investigate further the long-term effects of nitrogen emissions. As far as I am concerned, that investigation is not necessary. The line to reduce, the huge reduction that has already taken place and the further reduction that we can achieve with all the policies we have taken are already in sight. I have also mentioned the expected results of this. If there are any developments that require additional measures, the cabinet will no doubt decide to do so. I do not need to conduct long-term studies on this at the moment. That wasn't my intention either. Mr Grashoff also asked whether the agreements made in the PAS on reserve measures have been implemented and what is the situation. These reserve measures are not just for the agricultural sector, but for all sectors of development. Those reserve measures will be adopted in 2018. These measures are necessary in later years or can be used in later years if they prove necessary. So next year we're going to see what these measures are. Whether it is necessary to take them, we see in later years. Then these reserve measures can be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr Grashoff on this point. Or would you like to wait for the Minister's answer first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u55	I thought the Minister skipped one of my questions. I can imagine that, but I shall repeat that question. It was the question of monitoring reporting nitrogen 2016. That report isn't here yet. Can we expect it quickly now and will it be sent to the Chamber soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u56	Sure. Of Mr Grashoff's points, that was the last point. I'd like to answer that. Mr Grashoff is entitled to that. As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna get it this month. RIVM will publish it, so that, apart from Mr Grashoff, everyone will be aware of it. So the promise is this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u57	Then I would like to put a supplementary question to the Minister. How does he look at the fact that several researchers indicate that ammonia concentration in the air has not dropped since 2004, and may even rise slightly over the past two years? How does the Minister explain this and how does it relate to the objectives of the PAS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u58	I do not know whether you can talk about this, but I would like to say something about the use of ammonia in the atmosphere, which is causing changes in the flora that also affect fauna and everything that is attached to it. It's supposed to do that. But in order for you not to have that effect, you have to make sure that emissions, emissions, are reduced. That's what we can do. I can reduce emissions. That is what we have done in recent years. I have mentioned the results of this. That's our anchor; that's what we need to focus on. I can't look in the sky and say... no, I have to figure out how something gets in the air and what we can do about it. Well, then you need to see where it comes from and what you can do about it. And that's what we focus our policies on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u59	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u60	Which will then come out to Mr Wassenberg. Mr Wassenberg was right to point out that the agreements are of great importance at the source. I share that entirely with Mr Wassenberg. I believe that the restoration of nature must be done by means of remedial measures. Mr Geurts has also said something about this. You can also take certain recovery measures to help the development of such an area in the right direction, but very important are the source measures. We all know what is happening in traffic, how there is a huge reduction in emissions as a result of the source measures taken by the government. I have already dealt with the source measures in livestock farming. I have mentioned what these are and what decisions we have taken. Then Mr De Groot asked me a number of questions. I tried to write them down as best I could, and I hope they did. He wants a response to the fact that the support of, as he said, 30,000 volunteers is of great importance, especially with regard to the National Database Flora and Fauna. The Ecological Monitoring Network is a very important tool for monitoring nature policy. As Mr De Groot said, this comes about with a lot of volunteers. It is a collaboration between the government and civil society organisations. Governments always take a great deal of responsibility for triggering such developments. If I have learned one thing in the ministries over the past few years, it is that initiatives that come about in society come not only from society, but also very often are inspired, encouraged or further supported by the government. That is really the attitude of the Dutch government and the attitude of the Dutch ministries. That is also the case here. Rich and provinces take joint responsibility by bearing part of the costs for the Ecological Monitoring Network, in particular the costs for the National Database Flora and Fauna. That is how we provide support. I share the importance of this with Mr De Groot. I answered his question about the NEC objectives. He spoke about ammonia concentration measurements, which Mr Grashoff spoke about just now. My predecessor on this portfolio, the Secretary of State, told the Chamber that he intended to have it investigated. I believe that the results of that study could become available in the course of 2018. Partly on the basis of the research, we can then see whether our performance in terms of emission control leads to the desired developments for precipitation in the air, the level in the air and the connections between them. The Chamber will then be able to discuss this again on the basis of the further explanation given by the Cabinet to the research results. Mr De Groot asked how I explained that there is still a decline in plant and animal biodiversity. He talked about nitrogen-avoiding butterflies. There is a decrease in plant and animal species, especially in those 160 Natura 2000 sites and especially in those 118 areas where it is mostly less serious, but sometimes also severe. It is clear that this was caused by nitrogen deposition in two forms. But the number of butterflies has not diminished. If you compare the numbers of 2004 with those of today, you can see that, on average, there has been no decline since 2004. Mr De Groot also asked how I judged the RIVM's call for additional measurements to be made in connection with lack of knowledge about the relationship between ammonia and the health of residents. I know that the measurements and the frequency of those measurements are also Mr Grashoff's interest. Last July, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber of the results of the investigations into the relationship between livestock farming and the health of local residents. At that time, the Health Council was asked to advise on the effects of secondary particulate matter on public health and the effects of ammonia emissions. This is expected to be the subject of an opinion by the end of 2017. I think we need to have the necessary data available in order to properly assess the impact of our policies and of the Programmed Approach Nitrogen. In order to measure this, we must therefore also have the necessary instruments. I shall look into this in more detail in the light of the comments made by Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot. Then I will determine whether I believe that the density and quality of the equipment is indeed such that the quality of the data can also be guaranteed by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u61	I waited until the end of the answer, because I learned well that this Minister answered all the questions very carefully. Thanks for that, too. However, I am not entirely satisfied with this response. In that research of the Health Council mentioned by you, we understood at a hearing of the RIVM, it is about how it works. It is therefore about the qualitative effect of ammonia on health, because very little is known about it. The question I have asked is: to what extent does it affect population in the vicinity of livestock farming? During that hearing, RIVM replied that they do not really know enough about this and that they should measure more in practice, in the field. So that's actually a qualitative difference from the Health Council's investigation. Then about the number of butterflies...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u62	Shall we wait for the answer on this point first? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u63	I told you, I'm gonna take a look at those readings. I will look at the available equipment, the frequency of the measurements and their results. Are they enough for what we want to know and need to know? I shall deal with that aspect raised by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u64	Then there is Mr De Groot's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u65	Thank you. The Minister is right to say that the number of butterflies has not decreased since 2004. The point is that the number of nitrogen-avoiding butterflies has decreased, but the number of nitrogen-avoiding butterflies has increased. On the other hand, this is an indicator of the increase in nitrogen tax on our natural areas. This might be a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u66	I am not saying to Mr De Groot that the nitrogen tax is increasing. I don't think that's the outcome we're seeing. I think the results are that emissions are decreasing and, logically, precipitation is decreasing. I also see that in the areas where remedial measures are to be taken, they are to be taken. They're having an effect, too. The decline has just stopped and progress has begun. In places where this is not the case, additional measures will be taken. I therefore think that Mr De Groot's wording of the facts is too pessimistic on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u67	Do you have a brief addition, Mr De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u69	It's unusual to have a third interruption. So a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u70	I was very careful with my interruptions. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u71	That's not helping. You can't save in a debate. A very short question!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u72	I would like to say a few words about ammonia concentration measurements. I would like to thank the Minister for having that information available in the course of 2018. I referred to a report by The Sustainable Dairy Chain, which shows that in 2015 the amount of ammonia increased by 5 Mton compared to 2014, while a reduction target of 10 was agreed. So there has been growth rather than reduction. What about the reduction that we've seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u73	These calculations of RIVM with AERIUS take account of growth in the economy at an average of 2.5% per year. Nevertheless, the expectations of RIVM by AERIUS are that ammonia emissions will not increase between 2014 and 2030 but will decrease from 130 kilotons to 118 kilotons. I find it interesting in itself that figures are mentioned from year to year. I think it's wise to look at it, too. But more importantly, I think we are achieving the long-term goal. And that's how I just described it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u74	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u75	Mr De Groot also commented on the carbon and nitrogen needed for crops. In the case of excessive nitrogen deposits, certain plants and animals are stimulated, while others are pushed away by them. Mr De Groot has just given an example of this. He asked if this would be included in the announced soil strategy. We will engage in dialogue with all stakeholders to see how to further promote sustainable soil management. That's happening right now. We will have to come up with a new strategy on the basis of the facts as they are and have been discussed in this debate, on the basis of the views expressed by the spokesmen, but also on the basis of the results of the dialogue we have with the stakeholders. It will, of course, come from the new cabinet. We are currently preparing for this. Mr De Groot asks what practical innovations I see to turn manure back into a valuable raw material. I can keep whole stories about that. I myself have been working on this during the time I was alderman, a long time ago, but it is now about the practical innovations that we are seeing at the moment in manure processing. As a government, I do not believe that we should come up with practical innovations for the sector. It's never gonna come out that much. There will be more if the sector does so itself. What is all about creativity, especially in the agricultural sector, is truly unprecedented. There is also creativity in the organisations that deliver to the farmers and take away the products of the farmers. What we need to do is to provide frameworks and encourage manure processing. We are. When stimulating, I talked about manure fermentation. There have been developments in the mineral concentrate. We believe that the issue of mineral concentrates should be dealt with differently by the European Commission. We have been talking to them intensively about this for a long time. I have some hope that we can achieve results there too. I'll keep doing my best as long as I'm here. I will be happy to inform the Chamber of results as soon as possible. Mr Geurts has asked whether research has been carried out into lime and the plating of sandy soils. My answer to that is yes. They are both regular measures, which are the basis for research. But these measures are not yet widely applied. After you have done research, you look at how it works in practice, what you can learn from it and whether it can also be applied on a larger scale. That's happening right now. Mr Geurts asked when the Court would rule on the PAS. He also asked: are all decisions on the PAS still pending and what is the result? He referred to a ruling of the European Court of Justice. The European Court is expected to rule in the summer of 2018. Meanwhile, the permit with the PAS continues. The Council of State has held appeals under the PAS. It is expected that the courts will follow this line as well. If the professions are retained, the risk lies with the initiator to give effect to his permit. It is not an ideal situation; Mr Geurts is right to point this out. But it's no different. That's how our legal system works. We will have to wait for the judgment of the European Court in the summer of 2018 before the desired certainty for the entrepreneurs can be there. Mrs Lodders, who spoke on behalf of the VVD Group, asked me whether the research carried out on the Veluwe could be representative for the whole of the Netherlands. That's not true. The study is only representative of the most low-lime sandy soils. A very large part of the Netherlands is not low in lime. That's why, when you see the country as a whole, it's still going well with the cabbage kitten. I think it is a good thing that I can also comment on Mrs Lodder's question. It all starts with the description that it would be big trouble and torment for the cabbage tits, but if you look at the country as a whole, that image is different. In those areas where there is a specific problem, there is a concrete challenge for public authorities to ensure that recovery measures, supported by the source measures, achieve the necessary long-term effects. I say 'in the long term' because these recovery measures and source measures do not take a big hit at once. It's the reversal of a development, and that's what we're doing. It must lead to the necessary results in the long term. Mrs Lodder also asked whether the PAS offers sufficient instruments and sufficient scope for economic development, including what happens to infrastructure, traffic and so on, housing and the protection of nature. The aim of the PAS is to provide the best possible protection for nature and even to improve the quality of nature and also to provide a responsible space for higher economic growth. The beauty of the PAS is that it was both brought in. Whether it's enough depends on how you look at it. If you only look from the perspective of someone who says "it's about housing, it's about traffic and it's about employment" you're not satisfied because there's a limit to it somewhere. If you only look at it from the perspective of someone who says "it's only about flora and fauna and how we can protect and improve it, and I don't have a message to say about the rest," you can't be satisfied. I think the beauty of the PAS is that all these things are balanced in one feasible package. I'm pretty proud of those, unlike me, who created the PAS. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u76	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u77	I still have a question to answer from Mrs Dik-Faber. My apologies to Mrs Dik-Faber. I'm just gonna get my notes. I have two problems: I write badly and I can't find my notes. But I'm gonna try to pull them out anyway, because I didn't make them for nothing. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the FoodValley and in particular about what is happening in Ede in that area. She said I should promise that the Empire is not the obstacle to the Manifest Healthy Environment Farming that is being worked on. If I made that commitment, it would have the necessary consequences. So let me put it this way. The area-based approach is important for stimulating innovative solutions. The government certainly does not want to be obstructive, but we would like the agreements we have made, as in the PAS, to be kept. As far as the initiative and the agreements we have made are concerned, I will look at the possibilities of achieving cooperation in this area as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u78	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term on the part of the government. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u79	Mr. Chairman. I hope you have some coulance. I have three motions. I kept them very short. In any case, I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister, who has responded very adequately to this extremely complex issue, which he has only recently been directly responsible for. However, the Minister and I disagree on a number of points. But perhaps not on some points either. Let me start optimistically with the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a debate on the nature and origin of nitrogen deposition (traffic, industry, agriculture) and regional differences in nitrogen deposition, including its origin;]] [[Whereas there is a need for greater knowledge of the relationship between livestock and public health;]] [[Whereas the ground-covering measuring network currently consists of a relatively small number of measuring points;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to refine the land-covering nitrogen deposition network, including systematic differentiation between nitrogen oxides deposition (N0) and reduced nitrogen (NH), and to inform the Court of Auditors of this for the budgetary treatment of EZ,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u80	The next motions are even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u81	I hope so, because you've been through your time. If you read very quickly, I will allow it for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u82	Yeah, excuse me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to RIVM's forecast, the average nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands will have fallen to around 25 kg/ha/year in 2030, while many sensitive nature types have a critical depostie value (KDW) of 20 kg/ha/year or less and will therefore suffer serious further damage for two to three decades;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a package of additional measures to further reduce nitrogen emissions and to inform the Court before 1 January 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the persistently high nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands poses a major threat to our natural values;]] [[Whereas the effects of long-term high nitrogen deposition on plants, animals and soil in various types of ecosystems are still known but may be more serious than previously thought;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out, together with the provinces, further research into the effects of long-term high nitrogen deposition on flora, fauna and soil and to focus this research on different habitat types, and to inform the Chamber about progress and results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-121]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u83	And thank you for the flexibility!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u84	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. During the previous debate, I almost reluctantly saw the Minister rejecting motions. So who knows if that's different? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that biodiversity has deteriorated in the Netherlands in recent decades;]] [[noting that the reduction in biodiversity is to a large extent caused by ammonia emissions from livestock farming;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a plan of action to reduce the number of farm animals in the Netherlands, thus contributing to the strengthening and improvement of biodiversity in our country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u86	The clock is ticking, Mr. Chairman. So I might need a few more seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to reduce polluting ammonia emissions and depositions;]] [[noting that air scrubbers present many disadvantages, including strengthening the effects of barn fires and high energy consumption;]] [[points out that air scrubbers cannot be part of the solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his kind words about the volunteers. Previously, the CDA together with the PvdA has done the necessary work. I am now more concerned with the organisations involved in monitoring and therefore doing very important work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands knows 30,000 volunteers who map our biodiversity;]] [[noting that the provinces are implementing the nature network, but that the Empire still has system responsibility;]] [[Whereas the Knowledge Network Development and Management Nature Quality (OBN), the Ecological Monitoring Network (NEM), and the National Database Flora and Fauna (NDFF) play an important role in the collection of data, monitoring, and advice;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the role, position, administrative embedding and financing of these organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this in the course of budgetary proceedings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also had a motion calling for a reduction in the nitrogen deposition, but frankly I thought Mr Grashoff's was better. That's why I won't file mine. That saves the vote again! There remains a motion on Natura 2000 management plans. The Minister said that he would like to keep the Chamber regularly informed. Of course I am grateful for that, but there is an excellent overview on Natura2000.nl and you can see exactly what the management plans are like. If you do that, you can see that there is still some difference, among other things that the difference per province seems to be quite large. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas management plans are crucial for maintaining Natura 2000 sites;]] [[Whereas several Natura 2000 sites do not yet have a definitive management plan;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an action plan to arrive as soon as possible at finalised and established management plans for all Natura 2000 sites and to include any administrative measures against co-governments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the one in part No. Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot asked the government to examine how the land-covering nitrogen deposition network could be refined, with a number of words behind it. I would like to leave that motion to the House of Justice, if the intention of the motion is to see whether it is necessary to refine the measuring network and, if so, how it can be refined. It is a step too soon for me to take the starting point that it must be done. So if I explain it correctly in that way, I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u90	Yes, we can follow this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u91	Thank you, Mr President, to Mr Grashoff. The second motion, the one in part No. Mr Grashoff, Mr Grashoff, said that the government should come up with a package of additional measures to further reduce nitrogen emissions and that the Court should be informed of this before 1 January. It is true that we are developing a reserve package of measures for different sectors, including the agricultural sector, and the results of these studies will be available in 2018. I told you, we're gonna keep it under control. I believe that the ruling that the Chamber should make has no added value. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. Mr Grashoff. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the motion in part No. Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot asked the government to carry out further research, together with the provinces, into the effects of long-term high nitrogen deposition. We are currently carrying out extensive monitoring. We have already done a lot of research and a lot of data available. Now let's see what the effects are. I have already said that if there is anything further to be done to monitor this properly, I am prepared to do so, but I do not think that it would be appropriate to say that further research is needed. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 122 detachment. In the Wassenberg motion in part No. 123 states that the government must draw up a plan of action to reduce the number of farm animals in the Netherlands. I won't. I also hope that the Court will not make that statement, because ultimately it is not about reducing the number of animals, but about reducing emissions from agriculture. I would like to talk about that, but not as stated in this motion. I'm going to advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 124 states that air scrubbers cannot be part of the solution. I am a little modesty, because there is no request from the government. I would not have to say anything about that, but please allow me to say that air scrubbers are useful in reducing nitrogen emissions in themselves. They are useful for the surroundings of livestock farming because there is less nuisance. They are also useful for reducing nitrogen emissions. I wouldn't say that myself. I'll wait and see what the Chamber thinks of that. I do not wish to suggest that I recommend to the House that this statement be taken over by Mr Wassenberg. In the motion in part No. 125 asks Mr De Groot to inform the Chamber about the role, position, administrative embedding and funding of organisations working with 30,000 volunteers on biodiversity. I have no objection to doing what Mr De Groot is asking. I'll leave the verdict on motion No. 125 to the Room. Mr Futselaar's motion for a resolution 126 was co-signed by Mr Grashoff. The motion calls on the Cabinet to draw up an action plan to implement as soon as possible completed and established management plans for all Natura 2000 sites. I agree with the authors that these plans should be put in place as soon as possible. Given the developments, my firm expectation is that in 2018 all provinces will have those plans ready. In my opinion, there is no need for an additional statement by the Chamber on this point. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 126. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u92	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the effects of nitrogen emissions on nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-13.u93	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber tonight. I shall close the sitting on Thursday 21 September 2017.
