ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Van Oosten's question, on behalf of the VVD, to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I welcome. I call Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, the Congress took place Crime without blood, co-initiated by the Fraud Help Desk. There are estimates, at least I can read back, that billions of euros are being cheated every year in a variety of ways. There would be cheated with credit cards, insurances and ghost notes. There is acquisition fraud, dating fraud; you name it all. Following the situation in England, companies in the Netherlands from different sectors want to join forces in a so-called cross-sectoral approach to exchange information on misconduct and fraudsters. For example, they come from telephony and the energy sector. They're web shops, banks, etc. Signals from internal control systems are then exchanged. They would then become available to each other, so that fraudsters could preferably be identified in good time and prevented fraud. It is reported that this system would have prevented much damage and suffering in England. But the reason I'm standing here is that realization seems difficult, because the Dutch Data Protection Authority is obstructing it. Major legal objections would arise from the exchange of data. Those objections would tend towards privacy. I wonder what to think about, because just to quote a sentence from the coalition agreement: privacy seems to me to be meant for citizens themselves, but not at least to protect criminals. That seems to be the case here. I would like to give these companies an opportunity to prevent this damage and to shape this cross-sectoral approach. Fortunately, I understand, does the Minister see this need, but I would like to know from the Minister what action we can expect in the direction of the Personal Data Authority, so that the authority is really tempted to take these steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also replacing my colleague Mr Blok van V and Mr J, who has portfolio responsibility for this important issue. Fraud is a serious crime that indeed costs billions. This money is ultimately raised by others, probably by other consumers. In addition, it also gives other forms of damage, such as emotional damage. It's a priority to deal with it. This is partly the responsibility of the private sector, but my colleague from V and J also supports it from the public side. For example, the initiative of the organization SafeCin to arrive at a fraud infodesk, just as it exists in England, is interesting. This is being investigated in a pilot with the support of the Ministry of Security and Justice. This sounds promising in the fight against fraud, but the legal framework within which it is taking place will indeed have to be looked closely. My impression at the moment is that the legal frameworks in England are just different. Let me give you an example. If bol.com has a list of fraudsters, it should not share that of the Dutch Data Protection Authority with Wehkamp, because that is another sector according to the Authority. That's just an example. I can promise that in any case my colleague, in his capacity as Minister of V and J, will enter into a discussion with SafeCin to see what can happen within the existing frameworks and whether there is any reason to enter into a discussion with the Personal Data Authority to check again whether it is indeed intended that Wehkamp and bol.com should not exchange among themselves because they are different sectors, where exactly the legal limits lie, also in legal form, and whether it can all be within the current legal framework or whether there is reason to change the legal framework. But then, of course, you're talking about a different time scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course, it's good to sit down with SafeCin. Of course, I would also encourage the Minister or his colleague to do so. However, I think it is even more important that the Minister should take a little responsibility for just having a conversation with the Authority itself. After all, I am not asking for a government that organises it all, I am asking for room for companies to be able to fight fraud on the basis of their own initiative. Indeed, the current system is designed so that you will need the authority's permission. I am now getting signals that it is incredibly difficult to persuade the Authority at all to look at this in a somewhat friendly way, even though it can prevent damage. I would like to make that request specifically to the Minister. I would also ask the Minister whether he is prepared to study in more detail how this was designed in England. When I read that 40% to 50% of fraud is prevented there, I do not know if it is true, but I read that back in my mind: let us introduce it in the Netherlands. Suppose the estimates of billions of euros are right. If you divide it by two, you should see what we have left. Please, let's get to work! So can the Minister investigate that and inform us more about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	I can give my full undertaking to investigate and inform. My information right now is that the legal framework in England is different. By the way, there are policy choices underneath that. After all, the Dutch Data Protection Authority works within a legal framework and that means that if you have fraudulently purchased books, you will no longer be able to access your bank account. The sectors are separated for that reason. Do you have to maintain that or not? That might be a choice. But I think we should take it one step at a time. I admit that my colleague will talk to the organisation itself to see where the bottleneck is. If there is reason to do so on the basis of the conversation, he will then enter into a discussion with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. If the conclusion of Mr van V and Mr J is that there is insufficient scope for combating fraud within the current legal framework, there may be a time to adapt the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to make a brief comment on that last point. Thank you for the Minister's commitment. If the Minister for Security and Justice comes to the conclusion that the legal framework is not sufficient for the Authority to be able to act, I would indeed like to hear it with the greatest possible speed, because then we can get to work as a Chamber. These fraudsters, of course, we do not give the profits and we cannot accept the fact that companies in this country miss billions of euros, so we have to get to work. I await this point with interest. I hope that this can come at some speed towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'll admit it. I would add, however, that your Chamber attaches great importance to the protection of personal data, so that the legal framework is not there for nothing either. That framework was also created by the House of Representatives. Work will have to be done in there, unless a different choice is made. But again, that seems like two steps from here. I've made the commitment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. Mrs Buitenweg, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Oosten said very easily that the Dutch Data Protection Authority was obstructing personal data. In that respect, thank you to the Minister. It might also be a good thing that the Personal Data Authority simply enforces the law we have agreed to; frankly, I think this is the case. I am very pleased with the commitment that more information will be provided, because I believe that if there is a procedure for people to get their data corrected and so on, it can facilitate the sharing of information. In any case, it is important that mistakes can be corrected properly. In this case, there is no such thing. If more information can also be provided in the letter, then it is clear where exactly the problem lies. Then we can also see if we want to get to work with it and, if so, what exactly we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	I do not know if the problem lies there, but at least we can try to clarify this. I admit that the letter pays attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	If only in support of the questioner. Once we have laid down in rules that certain things are not allowed and certain things are not allowed, we cannot ask the Personal Data Authority to give a different opinion, as much as I welcome your colleague's contact with them. What I have a bit of a problem with is the attitude the Authority takes in this regard. I've turned out the page with her mission, vision and core values. Of course, they are very much about protecting fundamental rights privacy, but here too is one of its activities that the Authority is aware of the dilemmas in society in the field of privacy. Too often we are faced with only the supervisory role of the Authority. I would also ask the Minister to remind the Authority of her advisory role. Otherwise, a lot of people are going to say goodbye to the role played by the Authority in the upcoming GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. That was a short answer.
