ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator and her support. I would also, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. They will act as advisers to the Chamber in the examination of this initiative proposal. The first term of office took place on 1 February. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and the second-term answer as a whole. I would also like to welcome Mrs Berndsen. She is here on special invitation as a guest of the President, because of her close involvement in this initiative legislative proposal. Moreover, she is a former colleague of ours, so we are very pleased that she is among us. Before I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am sorry to have to make an order proposal before we submit to the further examination of this bill. We have asked many times for an opinion from the Public Prosecutor, in particular, and from the police. It was not until this afternoon that we received it, and these opinions are very negative. These are very critical opinions on the present initiative proposal on a number of points on which we have not been able to debate, not in the first period or in the written round. Unfortunately, therefore, I would like to request that the proceedings be suspended and referred back to a new round of written proceedings based on the rather far-reaching advice of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm sorry to have to ask you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u3	This is a point of order. As usual, I ask Members whether they support this point of order or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u4	I'm surprised the advice was in the Ministry for a long time and we're only getting it now. It is indeed very critical and raises many questions, so support for Mr Van Toorenburg's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u5	The fact that the advice was with the Ministry is hard to blame the initiator. That's the first thing. It's nuanced critical. It is indeed not undividedly positive, but all the points in it have indeed played a role in the written preparation, which is extensive, and all these points have also been raised in the first period. There are no completely new facts in those documents that we haven't asked questions about anyway. In fact, we have asked questions on all these points. I think that all these points can be dealt with very well in our questions to the author. The question of why it has now been sent to the Chamber may perhaps be raised in the opinion that we may receive from the government this evening. So I think we should just start the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u6	No support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u7	No support for the proposal. I support Mr Van Nispen's motivation. Moreover, it is open to a person of government to seek his own advice. They do not need to be sent to the Chamber and relate in particular to the formation of judgment by the ruler himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u8	I simply do not think that the delaying games played here by the notorious opponents of this proposal are appropriate. This is an initiative proposal. We had to move heaven and earth in the procedure meeting to deal with it. Now we're getting another technical attempt at slowing it down at 11 o'clock. Just trust in democracy. Let us deal with the proposal today. I therefore do not support the proposal. I just want to get on with the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u9	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u10	I do not support the proposal either. As Mr Van Nispen says, all the subjects discussed in the opinion were discussed in the written round and discussed in the debate. The applicant can respond well to this today, so no support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u11	Just for an orderly legal procedure, I would like to have a brief written round on these two documents that have come from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. I think that's important, because that's what we're used to doing. In my view, we do not need that much time and the initiator could answer the questions quickly. She has done the same in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u12	So you support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u13	Yes, I'd like to have a written round. That's what I've been asking for before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u14	The request was suspension in order to hold a written round. I need to get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u15	I myself do not need a postponement, because it will not change the position of my group. But if a colleague would like some time to incorporate the new points into her input, then I am in favour of that. I acknowledge immediately that I was not present at the first term. Nor is it the fault of the initiator that we were given the opinion late. But I don't want to lie down in front of the proposal either. That is why I support Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u16	Mrs Helder supports Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal. There is still a majority in favour of continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u17	No, Mr. Chairman. There's a majority to suspend. There are representatives of 70 Members who wish to suspend. Representatives of 66 members shall oppose the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u18	We also had to dive in here to find out what the procedure is like. A normal majority is required to honour a request for postponement, so half plus one. There is no such majority to suspend at this time. That means that your order proposal has been rejected, Mrs Van Toorenburg. We're gonna start treatment. I will therefore give the floor to the initiator, Mrs Bergkamp. But first, Mrs Van Toorenburg has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u19	Mr President, although I think it is different, I respect this and must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Magda Berndsen. The President has already done so, but I think it is important to do so myself. Magda was at the cradle of this proposal four years ago. I thank her for taking this path. I find it very honorable to be able to finish her work. I hope that that can be done here in the Lower House, and then deal with it in the Upper Chamber. I am also very pleased that she is here tonight in this Chamber. Thank you, Magda. Secondly, I want to thank my team. Part of it's behind me now. I call Sidney Smeets, Tim Vis, Rob Hofland, Taco van der Zwaag, Sophie Meijer, Huub Linthorst, Henk-Jan Oosterhuis and, spider in the web, Floor van der Zee. They have all been involved in the drafting of this proposal. Furthermore, I think it is important to express my thanks to the Legislative Office. The people of Bureau Legislation often work behind the scenes, but do a lot of work for MPs. In particular, I would like to thank Laura van Breugel and Esther van de Laar for their cooperation and the many work they have done for this initiative law. I would also like to thank all those present in the gallery. It was just as exciting to see if the debate would continue. I imagine they were excited about that, too. I see a number of familiar faces in the public gallery, of people who have been following the implementation of this initiative law for a very long time. I'm glad they're here tonight, too. I also appreciate and thank all Members of Parliament for their critical, constructive input two weeks ago. I also thank them for spending their Valentine's Eve with me in the Chamber. That's kind of special. Finally, I would like to thank my parents. I know they're watching now, too. Even my mom's been talking about this whole back door thing every time, and she doesn't talk about the kitchen door. So my parents are also sympathetic. When I look back at the previous debate, I see that the Chamber agrees on one thing, namely that the current system is not working. We have a problem, and that is what is called the current policy of tolerance, but that is what is happening in politics: we think differently about the solution. I thought Mr Segers said it very nicely: your hope is mine, when it comes to controlling things better, doing something about health and protecting young people from drugs. We share the same hope but for the time being we do not share the same solution, but I am going to do my best to convince Mr Segers and hopefully other Members of Parliament of the path I have taken. I would first like to give a brief general consideration, an introduction. Then I would very much like to answer the questions of my colleagues in as good a way as possible in eleven cubes. I've just put them on paper for a while. I would ask the messenger to give this to the MPs as well. The eleven blocks are: 1. prevention and discouragement; 2. addiction; 3. medical cannabis and home cultivation; 4. the functioning of the closed coffeeshop chain; 5. illegal cultivation and organised crime; 6. the international context, where I take the advice of the Council of State; 7. the resident criterion; 8. the financial consequences; 9. the consultations, where I also address myself to the CDA and the VVD with my response to the reaction of the Public Prosecutor and the Police; 10. the transitional regime; 11. the assessment clause. That is, in short, all the cubes that are going to go through tonight's review. Before I come to the answer to the questions, I would like to make a general introduction. As said before, Magda Berndsen announced in 2013 the initiative to regulate pot growing in the Netherlands. 40 years ago, the policy of tolerance has been in place and we have been discussing the policy of tolerance for 40 years. Now that we are here today, I hope with a great deal of passion that we can really take a step forward. Why does D66 consider regulating pot growing so important now? Last time I also noticed a lot of support from other political parties. Most people in the Netherlands don't do drugs at all and shouldn't, but what people often forget is that a significant proportion of the Dutch population uses cannabis every month: more than 500,000 people. Without encouraging use, D66 recognises this, just as we recognise that people use other harmful products, such as alcohol and tobacco. They use it for their pleasure and for their pleasure. Mr Van Klaveren was right to say that it is also about individual freedom of choice, it can decide on its own to use a medicinal product. I agree. I believe that the government has an important role to play in this, as in the case of tobacco and alcohol. It must ensure that people are able to use this kind of means, which are certainly dangerous to public health, in a safe and responsible manner. Perhaps we will discuss this later. As far as alcohol and tobacco are concerned, we have come a long way. In the case of cannabis, we suffer from the current tolerance policy. That is what I want to put an end to with this bill. We have four arguments as to why we want this. By regulating cultivation, we first of all serve public health. There is currently no view of the creation of hemp and hashish. It may be sold and used, but how it ends up in the coffee shop is some kind of magic trick, as Mrs Volp so beautifully said. Pesticides, pesticides and even hairspray are used in production. There's no idea how it's made or how it's made. I believe that the production of this widely used product should be subject to quality requirements, just as we do with other products sold. Secondly, current policy facilitates crime. You can't sell it, but you can grow it. This has led to many criminal organisations nesting themselves in cultivation. In the absence of supervision, the production is dominated by criminal organisations which, as Mr Van Nispen said, make huge amounts of money. The production of coffeeshops is taken out of control as much as possible with this bill. This also has a positive impact on the coffee shop owner. He doesn't need to get involved with criminal organizations anymore and can form a proper accounting system, like any other entrepreneur. Thirdly, this proposal serves legal certainty. By including policy in the law, it is clear to everyone what is or is not allowed. Unworkable situations, such as maximum trading stock, are avoided. Finally, a regulated coffeeshop chain can be used to promote a better discouragement policy. I really do not like the accusation that has been made in this Chamber, namely that my party is normalising drug use among young people with this proposal. I will look at this in detail later in response to the questions. As Mr van Oosten said, soft drugs can no longer be excluded from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u22	I would like to step forward, because Mrs Bergkamp speaks of legal certainty. That triggers me, because that term comes back in the letter we received recently from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Would Mrs Bergkamp be able to reflect on the subject of legal certainty, which is brought up by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and which it literally says, without going into too big a language, does the College think that legal certainty is being compromised? This is completely at odds with the point made by Mrs Bergkamp. I'd like to hear some reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u23	Mr van Oosten, with your permission, I will come back to that in detail. This is my introduction. In the "Consultations" block you can hear my reaction to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. At least this is part of it. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that in great detail. I have just quoted Mr Van Oosten freely: soft drugs are no longer to be considered in society. I think that is a realistic view. Unfortunately, Mr Van der Staaij cannot be here tonight, but he said: no weed is better than regulated weed. I say, no weed doesn't exist. Whoever closes his eyes to this, closes his eyes to failing the government in facilitating the safe and responsible use of cannabis. Only by regulating, it is better to discourage, educate and maintain. I'm getting on board. Luckily, D66 isn't alone in this. Mrs Van Tongeren also made a clear statement on this issue. Social support has grown enormously in recent years. Motivation surveyed in 2015 that 61% of Dutch people are in favour of regulation. 70% is even for legalization. The VNG also drew up the telling manifesto The bankruptcy of the tolerated. 89% of municipalities support the regulation and the resolution to modernise cannabis policy. Their reaction is a valuable support to me. I'm grateful for that. In the past, not only local directors, but also judges have indicated more often: The Hague, come up with policy. D66 picked that up. Mr Segers asked for embarrassment. I agree with him. So what's in front of us isn't a blueprint. I'm not pretending that at all. But D66 is taking an important step forward on a subject that has been held for years politically. Are we gonna solve all the problems? No. Illegal cultivation continues, as does export. Unfortunately, the use of drugs among minors will also continue. But a regulated cultivation does give the government more opportunities to intervene in the criminal chain. It offers consumers a quality and responsiblely produced product, it offers the opportunity to discourage and warn young people about the use of drugs and it offers them almost no longer the word "legal certainty" to those involved in the chain. Once again, however, we are going to have a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject. That is much more than what we can do with current policy at the moment. As Mrs Volp pointed out, we approach problems of realism and optimism. D66 does what politics should do: to provide a solution to a policy that we all agree is not working now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u24	I'd still hope there's a little more embarrassment, embarrassment about a product that's unhealthy. I've seen at very close range that this has got people off the track, that it's gone wrong because of this. And then talk about "a quality product" and argue that we want to settle it all so nicely? Let's see a little more embarrassment! This is unhealthy. This is just a lousy product. You can say: realism commands me to say that... Or: this leads us to have to regulate in some way. Mr Van der Staaij said: no weed better than regulated weed. Then you can still say that that is a utopia, but a little more embarrassment, and because we are talking about an unhealthy product, would adorn the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u25	It is already a credit to the author, because I have a comprehensive piece on prevention, discouragement, addiction and public health. I haven't even gotten to that yet. I hope that Mr Segers will be able to wait for my answer to that. Again: he is served at his beck and call, because I also think there are risks of cannabis. That's what part of my story is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u26	I look forward to that. I heard the author very well say: it is very annoying when young people use it. No, even if you use older people. Everyone used. Go to addiction care. Look at the side effects. Look at the risks. They're big. So, please, let us talk from the embarrassment that this is a bad product, a product that is very bad from the point of view of public health. Again: your reasons are your reasons and my reasons are my reasons, and we come to different outcomes. But we're talking about something really bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u27	I am very pleased that a lot of questions were asked last time from the point of view of public health. That was my approach route as well. I even wanted it to be dealt with by the VWS committee, but the majority preferred it to be dealt with by the Security and Justice Committee. I think this is a public health issue. I would like to dwell on it in detail later on from addiction care, from the way I look at normalization. I acknowledge that there is a risk group and that there are problems. Only, we think differently about the solution. I would very much like to explain why I see more opportunities for regulation from a public health perspective, with information, prevention and discouragement policies. This does not close my eyes to the risks of all drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u28	Please continue. You have already indicated a number of times that you would like to go into some detail. There are 11 blocks. I suggest that at the end of each block we see if there are any questions and interruptions. If that's what you're saying, we can sort it out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u29	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u30	We hope not to sit here until dawn, so I say as a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u31	That's a nice deadline: for the dawn. I now come to the issue of prevention and discouragement. Mr Van Nispen, Mr Segers and Mr Van Oosten asked how this law relates to prevention and the tasks that lie with the government, and why discouragement with this proposal can be improved. In this respect, Mrs Volp referred to the opinion of the Association of Dutch Municipalities: in order to shape the closed coffeeshop chain, we need to invest in the preventive approach to discourage use. I very much agree with that. The first reason for this proposal is the desire for prevention. Unregulated cultivation of hemp does not do justice to the role of the government as I see it, namely to ensure that products that are not as healthy to humans are used as responsibly and safely as possible. So that's exactly what I'm saying. Precisely banning, looking away from reality means that the government maintains an unregulated and therefore irresponsible situation. With regard to the prevention tasks of the government and the discouragement, I think it is essential to stress here once again that young people under the age of 18 are not now admitted to a coffee shop and will not be admitted to a coffee shop. We have confirmed this in our own initiative law. However, we also see an opportunity. Mrs Volp asked me about packaging such as tobacco, with warnings. That seems to me to be a very good and sensible addition. The Minister can also arrange this through a General Measure of Governance, I say to Mrs Volp. So through our law there can be discouragement, namely through the packaging, just as it does in the case of tobacco. Mr Koolmees asked what I think of a ban on advertising. It is part of the current criteria, the AHOJG criteria, in the designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In it stands the A: no poster ring. So now we cannot advertise cannabis, and we will not, because we have adopted these criteria in our law. This is also important for discouragement. Cannabis must not be advertised and cannabis must not be sold to young people under the age of 18. An important part of the policy of discouragement is that we have regulated the task of local government in the law. Municipalities can establish a distance criterion. They have the freedom to choose the distance between a coffee shop and a school. That could be zero kilometers or much more; that's up to the local situation. This will provide local authorities with an instrument for policy making. That's important. Because our own-initiative proposal clarifies what is in the cannabis, and this is also on the label, coffee shop owners can also provide better information. Let me give just a few examples, showing that we can do much more in terms of prevention, discouragement and information. It is also important that a sharper distinction is made between hard drugs and soft drugs. In our proposal, the coffee shop is the place where cannabis is sold. All other sales sites must be maintained. We need to tackle them, because we do not want a thriving street trade that will bring young people into contact with hard drugs when they are looking for cannabis. Through our legislative proposal, therefore, there will also be a sharper distinction between hard drugs and soft drugs. Mr Van Oosten asked about the ban on display.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u32	Before proceeding, are you already at the end of the block about discouragement or are you still working on it? I see that Mr Van Oosten wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u33	I'm working on the last little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u34	Okay, let's wait for that. I shall then give the floor to Mr van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u35	This is also a question from Mr Van Oosten. He asked me what I think about the tobacco display ban, the display ban. Mrs Volp actually gave a very good answer to that. We are in favour of this when it comes to the supermarkets. When you walk with your children in the supermarket, you do not want them to be confronted with tobacco. So that's what we're here for, but a supermarket is something different from a coffee shop. A coffee shop is a specialty shop. So we're against a displayban for a coffee shop. You're not gonna hide everything behind the shutters in a specialty shop. I wanted to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u36	That's not what my question was about. It is, by the way, a clear answer from Mrs Bergkamp to that question. I doubt I'd agree with her if I could touch that point. The D66 supported display policy means that you no longer see any cigarette packages when you enter any supermarket. Do you want to have it visible from the street that there is a coffee shop in a building, where you can smoke and where you can also buy tobacco and other substances? But that aside. My question was about something else. In addition, Mrs Bergkamp pointed out that the prevention policy she advocated would also lead to some local differences. That was actually put down as an advantage. At least that's how I understand it. There will be local differences, which put a city council in a position to discuss, for example, the distance between a coffee shop and a school. That is what my question is about, because we have just received not only a letter from the Public Prosecutor, but also a letter from the police. That police document states that there are concerns. Because if you're gonna make a deal, you're gonna have to be able to maintain it, and that's what the police are worried about. The police say in the letter: "This is a very undesirable situation for the police, because it will lead to great regional differences and possibly also undermine the legitimacy of government action." How does Mrs Bergkamp view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u37	I don't mean to be annoying, but we just made a deal with each other that I would deal with this subject in the consultation block. In that I go into detail on the advice of the Public Prosecutor and the police. I think we just made an appointment with the president. I want to stick to that. I note that Mr Van Oosten is very pleased with the two opinions that are before us today and that he has a lot of questions about them. I will answer it under the heading of consultation. Then we can combine them nicely and I will answer them all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u38	In choir with Mr Segers I say: I look forward to that. But then I reformulate my question. I have heard Mrs Bergkamp clearly say that there are local differences and that she sees them as beneficial because they give the municipal councils a position and so on. That is at least how I hear Mrs Bergkamp's statement. I read that now as a co-legislator, and I hear Mrs Bergkamp say that. But is it desirable to apply all kinds of differences at local level in terms of distances around coffeeshops and so on? Shouldn't you be much more in favour of a national policy if you're already in favour of a policy? If you decentralise it all, the result is: differences and unclearness, and no one who knows exactly what they are doing in municipality A or B.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u39	I will meet the Lord Van Oosten and respond very briefly. I myself am a spokesperson for long-term care and youth care. When it comes to decentralisation, there is a lot of discussion about what we should do nationally and what freedom of policy is in. We have opted for a piece of decentralisation in the area of coffee shop policy. By the way, that's the situation now, so we're not gonna change that. With regard to cultivation, however, we opt for a national policy. So this is an appetizer; I'm going to tell you more about it on the subject of "consultations."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u40	I have a specific question on this part of Mrs Bergkamp's speech. Mrs Bergkamp's proposal gives us more insight into production and what exactly is then grown and what can be sold at the front. She just mentioned the distinction between soft and hard drugs, but this is determined, for example, by a maximation of the THC content. Has Mrs Bergkamp thought about the discussion about this and what active parts of the cannabis can then be sold? How does she see fit that we should arrange that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u41	That is a very fair question. When you're working on such an initiative law, you're going to get more and more into that plant. Then you find out that it's a very versatile plant and that you can't just steer on THC for example. Because you also have CBD. Maybe for the viewers at home: THC gives a kind of kick and CBD makes for the slower feeling. That also gives me the answer: steering only on THC is not enough. You should also look at CBD. That is also why I have regulated in my own initiative law that the Minister can lay down rules on this combination of THC/CBD through a General Measure of Management. So as a chamber, we can also influence that. In other words, we can send it as a chamber if we want; the law offers a hook for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u42	Mrs. Volp, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u43	I think this is clear. But we also know that this is complex. It will therefore have to be clearly stated on the packaging which active substances are exactly in these sold species. Can Mrs Bergkamp go into the question of how it is controlled? I think we should check for this on a sample basis. Can Mrs Bergkamp then answer the question of how we, as a Chamber, should take decisions on what we still consider acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u44	That's two questions. How do we decide as a chamber? I think it is very good to use the instruments we have as a chamber. We can talk to scientists and experts about THC and CBD. I remember there was a discussion not so long ago about the THC level of 15%, which should make it on the hard drugs list. But it has multiple facets. So, as a Chamber, let us give good advice on what wisdom is in this matter. We can ask the Minister to come forward with a General Measure of Governance. It may contain a proposal on which we can then have a debate. I agree with Mrs Volp that at least the packaging must contain the strength. If you are going to buy alcohol, you also want to know if you have wine or whisky in your hands. The same applies to cannabis: you need to know what the strength is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u45	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u46	Then I go to the second topic: addiction and normalization. In line with the above and also in response to Mr Segers of the Christian Union, I do not, of course, close my eyes to the risks of drug use. All Members have pointed this out to me. That's why my second block is about addiction care, risks and the normalization of drug use. Mr Van Oosten asked about the risks of cannabis use, especially the psychological side effects. He also asked how these risks are precise and how the proposal affects them. Last week, the Trimbos Institute sent its latest, most recent findings from its literature study on the health effects of cannabis. The Trimbos Institute concludes that many users will never face serious or lasting health damage. Although for most people there is no lasting health damage, caution remains of course necessary. In some users, use can lead to undesirable psychological side effects, where personal predisposition can play a role. That is why good information and a policy of discouragement are important, as I have just explained. In that literature study you can see that there is a real risk group: young people who smoke a lot of cannabis early for a longer period, have a certain predisposition and often have all kinds of social problems. That is absolutely a risk group. Therefore, I really want to say that we may have thought in the past that cannabis was completely innocent, but it is not. There are also health risks to cannabis. Only, in the ranking of the RIVM you can see that they are much smaller than in other drugs. Cannabis's up to 12, tobacco's up to three, and alcohol's up to four. In these proportions and proportions, we must see it. The most large group of people have no problems, but there is definitely a small risk group. That is why information is so important. We just had an interruption about that. You need to know what's inside so you can take that into account. Mr Van Oosten inquired about the THC level in cannabis. For many users, the ratio of THC and CBD is relevant. Last week's Trimbos Institute's report showed that the average THC rate in deweed remained virtually unchanged in the past period. Until 2004, we saw a significant increase in the THC content. After that, there was another drop. Then there was a stabilisation. The THC content is now around 15% to 17%. I also mentioned that CBD is important, especially when it comes to addiction. Moreover, there is still a great deal of research to be done, because at the moment this is a prohibited product. You'll find that's an obstacle to a lot of scientific research, including international research. But it is important, as I said in connection with the interruption, that the Minister can come up with a General Measure of Governance and use the known data from abroad and from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u47	I put this question to the risk that I will be referred to another block. I heard Mrs Bergkamp speak of THC in combination with the word 'international'. That subject may fall under block 6, but I can now put my question. I have already asked a question about this in the first period. Can Mrs Bergkamp tell me how the Dutch THC content is, as I understand it, 15% on average. Do we have a much higher percentage or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u48	This question is very difficult to answer, because there is very little scientific research. My figures are based on the situation in the Netherlands. I would like to come back to this in second term, but these figures are based on literature research. I can perhaps come back to that in the second term if Mr Van Oosten considers that this comparison is relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u49	Yes, please. I also base myself on information that is on the website of the Trimbos Institute. I think that's a renowned institution at this point. I think this is relevant. Because if we are going to sell cannabis in the way proposed by Mrs Bergkamp, I am not excluding it, but this discussion will take place in one of the other blocks that the resident criterion may fall. Then our border regions can be flooded with drug tourists. That's what I'm worried about. For those drug tourists it might be more attractive to come to the Netherlands, because the THC content here is much higher than abroad. I would like to hear Mrs Bergkamp come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u50	I agree with Mr Van Oosten that the Trimbos Institute is highly renowned. That is why I am presenting the information from the Trimbos in response to Mr Van Oosten's question last time. Now that I hear Mr Van Oosten's explanatory statement, I think it is very relevant to look at whether data is available from other countries. I will see whether we can respond to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u51	I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, although I had hoped that we would be able to maintain the rhythm of the blocks. But ask your question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u52	It's about this point. I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp to look into Belgium where great research has been done and where great symposia have been. It has become clear that the dangers of so-called soft drugs are greatly underestimated, especially in the Netherlands. At least Belgium has its act together. Because they do recognize the dangers, Belgium has decided to be much more restrictive. Can Mrs. Bergkamp take that? Belgium is much stricter, because it knows what the dangers are. Then we in the Netherlands are even more ill-advised if we continue legalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u53	It is fine to respond to that in the second term. But we don't legalize: we regulate. I think it's important to make that distinction. In addition, it is important to know how everything relates to each other. I will come back to that later on to the international block and the block on the resident criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u54	These are always vocabulary games. In fact, there is just some legalisation here. That's what makes it so risky. I think it is particularly important that Mrs Bergkamp discusses the investigations and symposia in Belgium. There it has clearly been shown that the dangers are greatly underestimated and that the Netherlands is too naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u55	To be honest, I find that regrettable. In my story, I'm actually trying to tell what Trimbos sees as dangers based on literature research. I'm actually trying to indicate that. I also indicate which risk groups are at risk. We think differently about the solution. Cannabis has lost its innocent character, as I just pointed out. Mrs Van Toorenburg chooses the superb staircase every time. Fine, then we'll never find each other. But I have already indicated a great deal about the risks to public health. We can compare all countries: they all have different policies. If you compare the states in America with Belgium and Belgium with the Netherlands, you'll never get out. The Netherlands has a special situation, with the coffee shops. Many countries look at the Netherlands with great interest, because they think: you have less street trade; how do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u57	Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the standardisation of drug use. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me to comment on Mr Greeven, head of drug addiction institution Novadic-Kentron, on cannabis. He pointed out the dangers of cannabis addiction for young people. Of course, I say once again, yes, there are dangers. I don't underestimate them. Mrs Van Toorenburg and I really agree on that. There is a risk group, especially of young people who use cannabis prematurely and frequently, who, when they are between 22 and 26 years of age, end up in addiction care and can't get their lives started. As a result of Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, I contacted the headhandler. We talked about the risk group. Mrs Van Toorenburg also used a term used by this headhandler, namely that it would be a "sneak killer." He meant that there's a risk group that you need to have an eye for. He also said a few other things to me. He's in favour of regulating cannabis. Why? If you start criminalizing it, it comes into the taboo atmosphere and you can do very little preventively. By regulating, you also know what's in it, especially when it comes to high THC levels. We recognise, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, that there is a risk group, but think differently about the solution. It is important that the main treatment of a renowned addiction institution should be regulation because it offers more opportunities for prevention, information and discouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u58	A headhandler can indicate that he thinks it should be out of criminal law, which it is now in, but the point is that from addiction care the dangers are referred to as a sneak killer. It's interesting to see what he wants to do with it, but the fact is that addiction care indicates that it's an assassin. It is then up to us in the Chamber to decide whether or not we want to legalize an assassin. That's what the debate is about. To that we say no. It's nice that Mrs Bergkamp says what he might think from his public health idea, but the point is that he called it a "sneak killer." You don't legalize an assassin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u59	And that's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u60	To be honest, that's what I'm so sorry about. Mrs Van Toorenburg quotes this head of treatment. I asked him how he looked at it. We agree that there is a risk group, but when I talk about what he sees as the solution, namely regulating it, Mrs Van Toorenburg says that this cannot be done. Well, at least we don't think so. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what message the government actually conveys to young people when she gives cannabis the stamp "okay." Mr Segers specifically asked whether I share the concern that it will lead to standardisation and greater use. Mr Van Oosten also asked whether the group of cannabis users seeking help as a result of this proposal would not grow. Let me say again clearly that cannabis use of young people under the age of 18 is not okay. We're not gonna change that. It's good to say we don't change sales either. With our proposal we regulate the cultivation. As far as we are concerned, there is no discussion on this. But according to Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg, the government sends a kind of signal through regulation. Then I ask them: what kind of signal do we send when it comes to alcohol and tobacco? When it comes to alcohol, the government doesn't say "drink your drink," and when it comes to tobacco, it doesn't say "smell your lungs" and "everyone under 18 years old." No, when it comes to tobacco and alcohol, we in the Netherlands also see a role for the government, namely to ensure that where there is a risk to public health products, they can be handled as responsibly and safely as possible. We'll see that role for the government in that. That's the role I want for the government when it comes to cannabis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u61	Mrs Bergkamp is right to point out that tobacco and alcohol also cause enormous problems. Then why go on the same dangerous route as with tobacco and alcohol as a government? Is it not a very strange argument to say that we have enormous problems with regard to alcohol and tobacco, so let us together ensure that we also have these problems with regard to drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u62	I don't believe in prohibition. I believe that this has happened in America and many criminals have made a lot of money from it. I don't believe in prohibition. I believe in the policy we are now discussing on alcohol and tobacco, on information, prevention and discouragement. That is a realistic policy. The government doesn't look away. The government comes up with policy and I would also like that policy when it comes to cannabis, which in the ranking of dangerous drugs is not even in the top ten, which you cannot say about tobacco and alcohol. It is, of course, strange that you have a kind of two-track policy, in the sense that we do want a role for alcohol and tobacco from the government and not a government that looks away and that we then say for cannabis: it has to go away, it does not exist. I think that's weird. I believe in a realistic policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u63	So this is always that dry reasoning we're hearing. Because there are enormous problems in two other fields where the CDA is not for prohibition, we have to go exactly the same way with the drugs. That's a very strange argument. We say, "Don't do that, just because we see that other things are so dangerous." Then don't be unwise to legalize this even with a stamp okay. What kind of signal do you give?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u64	When it comes to controlling tobacco and alcohol, the government doesn't say okay either. What the government is doing is prevention, information and discouragement. If you leave this out of the ordinary, you're gonna let an irresponsible situation exist. I have just indicated that this initiative proposal will provide much better protection for our young people and much more opportunities for prevention, information and discouragement. I think we should take those odds with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u65	I said in my first term that after the Second World War about 90% of men were smoking and that it was almost sometimes prescribed on medical advice. We found out how bad that was, and then we started taking action. So the direction was completely clear: we are going to reduce the use. A motion has recently been adopted that says: we do not want cigarettes in sight at the supermarkets. We're cutting back every time. In the case of alcohol, that's the same thing. Alcohol age has gone from 16 to 18. We're trying to stop sales to young people. If that is the direction, and if that is also the direction for weed and soft drugs, then what are the three steps that are not possible now and which will soon be possible to reduce it and go in the same direction as tobacco and alcohol?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u66	There is no control of cultivation now. There are 500,000 people who smoke something. It's got pesticides in it and other crap, like congealing and hairspray. They don't know how strong it is. My proposal makes an important change, in the sense that people know what they smoke, that there is quality control and that there is no more mess in it. From the point of view of public health, I find that very valuable. In addition, people can also read on the label what they smoke, in terms of strength and weight. That's just gambling now. In addition, you can have a label like tobacco, which warns and discourages you. You can't do that right now. We also explicitly include in the law what local policy is going to do. Municipalities must come up with local policies to discourage drug use under 18 years of age. They need to come up with addiction policies and information. Those are all things that we can do much less right now. With the new policy, hopefully, we can do much more than with current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u67	That was exactly my point. If you're going to make sure it's clean or relatively clean, that's exactly the signal you're sending: it's okay, because we're checking it out and we're on top of it. We're doing the best we can with tobacco. It is perhaps more comparable to that than to alcohol, although it is also very harmful. Anyway, a first beer or a first glass of wine has a different effect than a first joint. The signal you're sending to young people is that it's okay now, isn't it? Those are exactly the same words that Mrs Bergkamp just said in her introduction. If a minor smokes, that's not okay, but the suggestion that's being woken up is that it's okay if you're over 18. That's not the signal we want to send out, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u68	You can disagree about the signals you want to send. I think that the freedom of choice of people is also part of their choice to use a product that is at risk. However, we have been talking about this policy for 40 years now, and I believe that it does not work. We can keep muddy. We can keep looking the other way. We can close some coffee shops, but then you get a lot of street trade and you don't want that at all. You don't want young people getting in touch with hard drugs. We have an infrastructure with coffee shops in the Netherlands. We have it and it prevents a lot of street trade. However, we do have a strange policy, which I find difficult to sell: you can sell it, but you cannot grow it. There's been a lot of crime. I'm embarrassed to say I'm trying to get that ghost into the bottle a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u69	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u70	I think we understand each other now, even if we don't agree on the solution. I hope Mrs Bergkamp understands that I am concerned about the signal that it is sending. Sometimes the regulation of weed cultivation has been talked about as if it is the solution to everything, for example because it would save us a lot of police costs. It's almost like it's something exalted, something beautiful, when it's just worthless. It's just mess. No matter how you control it, it's just not right. We can indeed say: we are all not satisfied with what we have now, because there is a strange difference between front and back door. I agree. However, I want to take a right and Mrs Bergkamp wants to take a left. But, please, keep talking about how harmful it is to health and how high the risk of addiction is. We see the consequences in addiction care. It sucks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u71	Let's take a look at my contribution tonight. I think I said 'freedom of choice' once; for the rest, I talked about prevention, information and discouragement. So I think my story is well balanced with Mr Segers' appeal. I sincerely believe that Mr Segers has a point: there are risks to public health. Alone, what are you gonna do about it? We have so far differed on this, but I hope that we will be able to get closer to each other tonight. I can feel something growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u72	Something's happening on this Valentine's Eve. I welcome Mrs Bergkamp's words on the importance of prevention, the fight against addiction, discouragement and information. If I hear it correctly, this law offers more opportunities to do more about it. That is how I summarize the last part of her speech. However, I would like to ask the following question. Where are the responsibilities for the coffee shop entrepreneur, the municipality and the government? Can Mrs Bergkamp go into this a little deeper? What exactly are we asking of whom on this very important subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u73	In the closed coffee shop chain, the Minister of Health is responsible for quality control of cultivation. This Minister gives tolerance decisions to growers who meet a number of requirements. Coffeeshop policy is defined in the city council. The mayor has the important role to play in passing a tolerating decision to the coffeeshops. That's how you form a closed coffee shop chain. Coffeeshops have to buy from the tolerated growers and the tolerated growers can only grow for the tolerated coffeeshops. That'll get you a closed chain. My expectation is that sales in the Netherlands will take place as much as possible in this chain and that we will push crime out. However, it is to a large extent an administrative system that we choose. The moment someone doesn't comply with a tolerated decision, you get to the criminal justice system. The government has potential, of course. The quality control is subject to state control. I also mentioned it in the proposal. In the end, it's up to the minister. On the issue of how to ask, some things still need to be worked out. But you don't do that in a law. In the end, parties must start to experience it with each other in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u74	Rounding up. Do I understand that we are going to ask more of the government because it is about the control of cultivation, that we are going to ask more of the municipalities because they are expected to have official policies and that we are going to ask more of the coffee shop entrepreneurs? Do I understand that we are going to do more in all these areas to prevent, discourage and educate people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u75	I couldn't have summarized it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u76	It is precisely this closed system that the College of Attorneys General has spoken very clearly and made a nice comparison. The opinion of the College is that the question of whether it should all be so should be answered in the negative. Furthermore, the College has pointed out that the closed system may leak, with insufficient clarity as to who should then act as a plumber. I thought that was a rather nice comparison and I would also like to know what the initiator thinks about this. She says there's a closed system, but the D.A. says there won't be any.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u77	Not to be silly, but I wanted to come back to this by the block of consultations because it's about the public prosecutor's piece again. I think it's kind of lame to say it every time, but when it comes to the plumber and the leaking, I'm saying that you obviously don't settle the how-question in a law. I just said that to Mr Van Nispen. Eventually, you're gonna have to deal with each other in policy plans how to do enforcement. That's a real follow-up. Today we're dealing with the law. Perhaps I can answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's question in this way, and again as a preview for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u78	In all honesty, I hope that there will really be a lot more by the time Mrs Bergkamp gets to that block, because a law has to be able to enforce it. That's why the College of Attorney General is cutting this off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u79	It's 9:15 and we're at block 2. It's just a matter of time before the president knows about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u80	Quite frankly, that is not entirely up to this initiator. Something is being said every time about the D.A.'s note, but we are about to discuss it with each other. I'm moving on. I have already said a lot about discouragement and information. I say again to Mr Segers that this proposal does not reduce the thresholds. We're just raising them. Mr van Nispen has just been able to give us examples of this. It is also important not to stigmatise and criminalise soft drug use. That would otherwise be a threshold for seeking help and, by the way, when discussing it as a parent with your child. I would like to add this to the subject of information and discouragement. Mr President, good news: I am going to the next block. But I think there's gonna be a note from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u81	No, I wouldn't dare. I now have the opinion of the Council of State, which is also important. Mrs Bergkamp also responded to this in the note on the report, or her further reaction. We are still working on the addiction block, and my point is this. I read in the opinion of the Council of State that there is no doubt that there will be a larger group of young people who are going to use drugs, soft drugs, and who may be affected by them. At least that's how I read it. What specific measures does Mrs Bergkamp propose in order to prevent this group from becoming larger than the current group of users? I think it is important to make that clear to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u82	The question of whether the proposal will increase its use is to look into the future. It's very difficult. It's a fear of the Council of State. Information, prevention and discouragement are the building blocks of our proposal. Our proposal doesn't change anything about the sale either. We regulate the cultivation. Maybe it's good to use the example of America, of Colorado. Of course, there were also concerns as to whether the use of drugs by young people would increase. There, for example, research shows that it has remained stable. So it is important to keep the finger on the wrist together. If we regulate it, we have more control over the situation than in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u83	No misunderstanding: I am convinced of Mrs Bergkamp's commitment to prevention, discouragement and so on. I also note that she has not therefore investigated whether the group of young people who are likely to suffer from the use of soft drugs can grow compared to the current situation. I would have found it interesting to have some more explanation of that and to have some more certainty about it, because that can of course also influence the assessment of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u84	I understand that, but those are things you don't know until you start doing it. Let me tell you one important difference: there were no coffee shops in America. The fear was of course quite great that it would lead to more use in, for example, Colorado. In the Netherlands we just have the coffee shops. I also talked to Jellinek about this. Our proposal does not change the number of locations available. That stays the way it is now. So my expectation is that it will not increase. We have instruments and we need to keep the finger on the wrist. I'm going to the third block: medical cannabis and home-grown. I can be very brief about that. A number of questions have been asked, of course, which I have also thought about in the preparation of the legislative proposal. However, these issues do not fall within the scope of my initiative law. I like it as a Member of Parliament, but home growing and medical cannabis are not within the scope of my own initiative law. Despite this, Mrs Van Tongeren has tabled an amendment which I certainly like. I particularly like it because it indicates that this should not be done without reason, but should be done in a regulated form. In this case, I will give my opinion on the amendment, namely that I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I think it's a nice proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u85	I have a quick question. Mrs Bergkamp now gives her opinion on Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment. What possibilities does it see under its initiative law for the types of weed that may have a medicinal effect? Now it's delivered by Bedrocan. We know that many users do not come out with it and that medical weed is also produced in other places, but that this encounters major problems in delivering it. What possibilities does Mrs Bergkamp see within her law? Perhaps with this regulation we can provide more species to people with chronic disease through the coffee shops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u86	My proposal is about recreational cannabis and not medical cannabis. Again, I really like it. I have also asked questions about it to the Minister in debates. I am also very concerned about it, but it simply does not fall within the scope of my own initiative law. I think it is very brave that Mrs van Tongeren has nevertheless tabled an amendment in order at least to be able to settle something. It is a form of regulation; hence I say that I like it. However, I have no choice but to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u87	For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that this is the amendment on item No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u88	Mr. Chairman. The fourth block concerns the operation of the chain. I have already said several things about this. Mr Van Nispen asked a question about the validity of the decisions. The last time there was confusion about the duration of such a decision. For the coffee shop, I made the decision to tolerate it two years ago and for the grower five years ago. Why did I mention two years before the coffee shop? The situation of coffee shops is different from that of growers. They don't start from scratch. A comment was made on the investment that would be made. For coffeeshops, of course, the situation is different, because they are already there. I think this is important, looking at the risks that there are. It's a criminal sector right now. I'm not talking about the coffee shops, I'm talking about the cultivation. You have to do business with that. Then it's important that the mayor keeps a grip on the situation. In addition, there is a transitional regime in which you have to look at how it all works out. That is also why I had chosen a two-year period. I realize that mayors are already passing passed decisions in addition to an operating permit. Their validity varies: two years, three years or five years. I have looked at Mr Van Nispen's amendment. I can also imagine you saying: let's make those two years five years. Of course, you can always come back to it if a situation changes into that decision of tolerance. So it's not like you have it for five years and there's no control after that and you can't change it anymore. I also leave this amendment by Mr Van Nispen to the House. It does not curse with what I have written down and I also like it. I can also imagine you holding it at five years instead of two years. Once again, I would like to highlight the considerations on the basis of which we have chosen for two years. But I'm fine with you making it five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u89	For the record, this is about the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u90	That's correct. Let's all do that right now. The amendments that I have to deal with, I try to braid them straight into the story. Then there is Mrs Volp's question about the maximum trade stock for coffeeshops. She asked some questions about that. The thing is, it's 500 grams, equal for everyone. We have, of course, stated in our own initiative law that it is now up to the mayor to make an appointment with the coffee shop. You notice in practice that one coffee shop is small and sells less, while the other is large. We've had all kinds of impossible situations. So we got away from that, looking at our own initiative law. Mrs Volp has tabled an amendment specifying the information to be sent from the mayor to the minister. After all, the Minister must determine how much must be grown. He is dependent on the mayor's information and gets all the information about the tolerated decisions and the maximum trading stock. Mrs Volp has said that it is of course also important to know how much hemp has been sold in total. We can, of course, refrain from regulating this in a law, but I think it is a good clarification for the clarification. That is why I would like to accept this amendment, or at least be positive about it. I think we can accept amendments if everyone agrees. This is what I'm going to tell the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u91	Everyone has to agree. I am therefore asking whether there is any objection to this. It will then no longer be part of the debate and will not be put to the vote. I note that the Chamber would like to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u92	People do want a vote? In any case, I would like to say that I am positive about this. Then that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u93	Okay. I think it's easier for everyone. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 15. Judgement is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u94	Then Mrs. Volp has honor of her work, too, I think. I will continue with the questions that have been asked about destroying cultivation. The Minister must, of course, gain experience in determining the amount of weed that can be grown. Those who grow too much must destroy it or make it available to the coffee shops. They have to sell it too much. I've been asked how that goes. Now, the General Measure of Governance is an opportunity for the Minister to clarify this a little more. Mr Van der Staaij asked: are you not a bit naive in that? Because it's a criminal sector now. Are they going to destroy it? Is it not going to be spent on exports? The Minister gives tolerance decisions to growers. It takes quite an investment to grow. They have to be professional growers; it's not something you just do. The moment you start exporting the crop and you find out, it's: away decision and away investment. You're gonna get the criminal route up your ass, too. I think we have a lot of rules to regulate this as best we can. I'll just say that no law is 100% fraud-free. I refer to tax legislation and grant legislation: we can regulate as much as possible, but of course this includes enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u95	It does listen closely to what needs to be done with the surplus harvest, the overgrown. Is that going to be destroyed? Is that the intention of the initiator? Let us record that in the Acts for the history of law? Or does the initiator, and perhaps all of us, say that it can also be used to be sold to a coffee shop? If the latter is the case, I think it is at odds with the initiativer's point of view, namely that the mayor/secretary of State of VWS determines how much cultivation is allowed, because this is determined by the number of users. What is it now: destroy, or can you use it for a third coffeeshop or extra sales at the coffeeshop? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u96	In the end, it's about being able to justify it. In America they are very far with a track system, with which every plant is really followed, from A, to B and C and D. Of course, it also depends a little on how much remains, because a minister has to assess the amount that can be grown annually. You have to gain experience in order to make a good assessment of that in the end. So that's got to grow. The Minister may impose additional rules through a General Measure of Management. That's really something from the execution. I am now saying, for the history of law, that it can be destroyed, but it can also be properly justified, for example, that a coffee shop will be sold at a later date. It is a question of accounting from the coffee shop up to and including the grower, and of keeping up-to-date accounts. One has to be able to justify every plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u97	I do not understand why it is so difficult for Mrs Bergkamp to make a choice. You can say that something is destroyed. It determines how much may be grown. If you grow too little, you're unlucky. After all, you haven't grown enough. If you've grown too much, you've grown too much. Then what's easier than saying we destroy it? If you're left with it, there's my follow-up question and also my concern, you have to check what happens to it. Does this indeed end up at a regular coffee shop or does it not suddenly disappear in the illegal street trade or on any illegal path? Because I don't want to. That is what we need to maintain and control. I think the cost of that is much higher than if it is simply destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u98	My answer remains my answer. I very much appreciate Mr Van Oosten's thinking with me in this process. I appreciate that. Perhaps I will come back to this in the second term. As we have now arranged, it is important that there is accountability. Of course, it's a whole new process. As I said, it also depends, of course, on the Minister's assessment. That's going to have to grow in, too. The Minister has an instrument in his hands, namely the General Measure of Governance. However, it must be justified. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u99	We can discuss this for a long time, perhaps. I would also like to make a comment on enforcement, unless Mrs Bergkamp comes back to that in another block. My question is, above all, how is it now monitored whether too much cultivated really does not reach that wrong, illegal destination. There is also police capacity or capacity of municipal officials or I know any public authority. They're gonna have to check it out and supervise it. They don't do that for nothing. They cost money. Then I will make that little bridge to another heading, namely the financial paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u100	That's how we race through the proposal. Perhaps it would be a good idea to address the questions about the enforcement costs for the police for controlling tolerated growers. It is important to point out that the maintenance of this crop is a matter of administrative supervision. Only when criminal offences are committed, which are not covered by this exclusion, will the prosecution and investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police take a look around the corner. In this case it is primarily administrative supervision. We have indicated in our statement that this is based on the calculations made by the Ministry of Energy, which saves about 24.8 million. Of course, you can then decide that is a policy choice to put that money into that supervision, which indeed needs to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u101	Shortly, yet. Maybe we'll talk about it at the finance block. I understand that this aspect has not been taken into account by Mrs Bergkamp. It is considered essential, because she is now saying it in her financial calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u102	In the explanatory statement, I mentioned the savings of 24.8 million. I have also indicated that it could possibly be used for the costs incurred in the supervision of the state. That is a policy choice, not a choice that this initiator can and wants to make. That is something that you can ultimately make choices about in the budget negotiations, my party's financial spokesman. That is therefore stated in the explanatory memorandum. However, where this saving takes place is a policy choice. Of course, as a Chamber, we have something to say in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u103	I was really thinking about what Mrs Bergkamp is actually describing, namely that the situation may arise that a coffee shop may have a certain quantity and that a grower supplies a certain quantity while it has much more. Mrs Bergkamp is actually saying that this does not necessarily have to be destroyed, that we just have to take a look at the implementation and that perhaps the police can take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u104	What is your question, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u105	Does Mrs Bergkamp really say: let the police supervise the amount of drugs that are being grown too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u106	As I said to Mr Van Oosten, this is a matter of administrative supervision. So that's different from police supervision. I also said that this should, of course, be primarily aimed at marketing at the coffee shop. That's why the grower grows. Or the product is destroyed. But I also said that this must of course be coordinated at the beginning. You have to make arrangements about that. The most important aspect of my proposal is that they must be able to justify it. The question of how, and how, it takes place is not part of the normal legal treatment, but of all policy documents and implementation. This implementation will certainly bring with it a great deal. In principle, however, what Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten say is true: what needs to be grown must be delivered to the coffee shop. Sometimes there can be something left, because of any circumstances. You have to be able to justify it, or it will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u107	A legal treatment also guides policy implementation. That is why I would like to hear Mrs Bergkamp say today: it is not en-en, but either it is delivered because it is a quantity that can be delivered, or it is simply destroyed. If that doesn't happen, you'll just get a merciless punishment. We'll talk about that later, because the D.A. doesn't know what to do with it either. However, I believe that this should be the direction we are pointing here today in dealing with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u108	I understand what Mrs Van Toorenburg is saying. The way we express it here is indeed part of the legal history. I also think it would be nice to read back this treatment in a few years' time. However, I give a very clear answer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. We may not agree on this point, but my answer remains that growers grow for the tolerated coffeeshops. Their products must be delivered there. If farmers are left with too much left, that surplus must be destroyed. In some situations it may be that, for example, the alignment has not been good. Then the product must of course also be delivered to the coffee shop, or it must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u110	I have therefore referred to surpluses and destruction. That sounds like a very aggressive subject, but it still remains about just a plant. In the end, it is important that there is a proper accounting system. I think we should hold that together in this treatment. Mr Van Nispen asked whether it was possible for coffee shop owners to create a foundation model. Yeah, you can. In the Netherlands we are free to choose such forms. The same applies to this sector as to all other branches in the Netherlands. I think there's already an industry. At least I've been in touch with people of that kind. I think it's very good that the sector is organizing itself. In implementing this proposal, it would be very good to consult within the sector. It would be very good if people were to say: how are we going to do this? However, the sector is free to opt for the model of the foundation or for another form. But of course it is still important for the government to keep a grip on this and control it. At the moment, of course, it is an unregulated sector. And it's gonna ask a lot of the government to manage this, I'm just saying here. Mrs Van Tongeren asked me if I could go into the proposal, or actually on the advice of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, so on the report Het beslaard van het bedoegd. She actually asked me about the woman: does your initiative law now meet the requirements of the UNG report? I can now go into detail on that report. But I can actually sum it up very briefly. The objective and the conditions set out in the report are perfectly in line with the legislative proposal. I am glad that it is, because the support of mayors and aldermen is also important. After all, they experience how difficult this is every day. I am therefore pleased that the VNG's proposal and report agree on the objectives and conditions. I am doing the report of the VNG deficit because it is a very comprehensive report, but I will summarize it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u111	There is no doubt that the summary given by Mrs Bergkamp is correct, but I note that the UNG report does not address the criterion of residence. We are going to talk about this, but this criterion is nevertheless a rather crucial point in the determination of the position around this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u112	Municipalities think local customization is important. We've talked about that a lot. That's important. We'll get to the subject of resident criterion later. However, municipalities want local freedom, not so much because they want to be free, but because they want to be able to provide tailor-made services and respond to the specific local situation. For example, Amsterdam cannot be compared to Brabant or the border regions. There are really differences. Municipalities like that they have the freedom to deliver customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u113	Well, that's just the question, but it would be interesting to know whether Mrs Bergkamp, whether or not we had a discussion here a week or two ago, has been at the VNG to ask if she wants to supplement the report on the residence criterion. Then we know exactly what the UNG thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u114	You can deal with this now, Mrs Bergkamp, but then we will also deal with the whole subject of residence criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u115	Perhaps it would be good to deal with this question in this way with the subject of residence criterion. Then I move on to the next block: the illegal cultivation. A number of questions have also been asked about crime, organised crime, illegal cultivation and exports. I think it would be a good idea to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u116	Mr van Oosten, you are all asking new questions that you have not yet asked in your first term, but you are asking your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u117	The latter is not entirely correct, at least not your summary, because I have a summary of the questions I have asked. I think one of those questions is part of the last block. If I'm wrong, I'll let you know. That is the question to what extent mayors can now take into account the decline of tourists when determining the trading stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u118	That has to do with the resident criterion, but I would like to answer this question. That depends on the resident criterion. If municipalities choose to do so, they don't take tourists into the trading stock. If they don't choose that, they do. That is the answer to that question: it depends on whether a municipality has the resident criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u119	Thank you. I understand that we still have a block of resident criteria, so I will come back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u120	But this is an answer to your question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u121	It is certainly an answer to my question, but if you will allow me, I would like to add my follow-up question to that. If it is true that the reduction by tourists can be taken into account, is there not a decision that the whole of the resident criterion could be dropped? That resident criterion is precisely that you may limit the purchase and sale by your coffeeshops to your own residents. That is precisely what I think is important because it prevents drug tourism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u122	This question is about the block of the resident criterion, so I'm going to answer it there. I think that's neat to the other colleagues, too, who have a bit more cube feeling, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u123	In any case, Mr Van Oosten has a feeling of questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u124	Maybe that's a little more friendly. I agree. Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked a lot of questions about the market that remains for illegal cultivation. They also asked whether criminal cultivation could be reduced by our proposal. I would like to show a bit of realism in this: illegal cultivation will continue. I do not have the illusion that my bill will eliminate all cultivation for export and for criminal organizations. We hear a lot of noises from the country that the spirit is really out of the bottle, as I said. I hope that we can get that spirit into the bottle with my proposal. But when we look at all the sectors in which regulation has taken place, we see that the illegal market is falling and under pressure, but it never disappears completely. In the Netherlands there are still illegal casinos. There is still illegal prostitution. However, you can see that the situation of producing unsafe, illegal drinks at the time of prohibition in America, after regulating, is completely reversed. Mr Van Nispen asked what the size of illegal cultivation is currently. That's kind of the problem; I wish I knew. The WODC has been investigating exports. These figures were between 30% and 97%. In other words, we don't know. That's very difficult. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Oosten, who also asked a lot of questions about research. But that's the point about crime: it takes place in the sneak. The government isn't supposed to find out. If a renowned scientific agency such as the WODC has not been able to determine how big the export is, then you will understand that as an initiator in my study I did not find out either. There have been a lot of other investigations. You can read in the explanatory statement all the investigations that have been carried out. As I just said, it's an illusion to get a complete picture of the criminal sector. If the VVD wants to wait for all these investigations to get a complete picture of the issue of crime, illegality and export, I fear it will be difficult to keep its congress satisfied with the motion on smarter regulation, but that is its responsibility. What we know is in the explanatory statement. We will also have to try things out in practice, and we will have to keep our finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u125	I'm gonna get a little tighter now. So far, I have been quite generous in raising all the questions. Are you done with the block "illegal cultivation and organised crime" or not yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u126	Not yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u127	Then we're gonna finish that first. Only then will I allow questions. I'm gonna do that to all the other cubes from now on, because otherwise this isn't gonna work. I'm just saying it the way it is. Please continue, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can criminal cultivation be reduced? All cultivation is currently illegal. All cultivation, including cultivation intended for coffeeshops, is illegal. Those coffeeshops need to be supplied. The estimate is that about 140 tons is delivered to the coffee shops. The aim of my initiative proposal is to regulate that. The supply to coffee shops should be tolerated and should be part of the controlled chain. With this I gave some color to the size, because there was that need. In order to tackle crime, it is important that the market becomes less interesting and that we reduce it. You can discuss how big the market is, but with our proposal it will be smaller. Of course, we want to achieve the maximum possible. The way crime is going to work also depends on what is happening in the countries around us. Farmers also go abroad in the Netherlands. National cultivation takes place in many countries around us. As far as crime is concerned, there is a very dynamic model. It's not a scientific model. I cannot answer the question of how much is being produced for export. I can only join the investigations that are already there. We also introduce with our proposal the possibility to punish more severely if there is injury. I just indicated that there's capacity for police and justice. That capacity can be deployed. It is important that our proposal clarifies what may or may not be allowed, the tolerated and unsatisfied cultivation, so that you can focus more on this in enforcement. I am convinced that if we do nothing now, the situation will remain as it is. My proposal is about a closed coffee shop chain. Next to me is my advisor, the Minister of Security and Justice, in the field of tackling drug crime. That is an important activity of this Minister. Of course, it takes a lot more than that. There are more and more noises about what it takes, about the task force and all of it, but I really leave that to the Minister. Mrs Van Toorenburg expressed her concern about the intimidation of drivers. That's terrible, and it's happening now. It's worthless for administrators, mayors, to be threatened. That is a big problem and we should not allow it. But that too is a question for the Minister. However, it is important to point out that a majority of mayors are waiting for this proposal. They hope to get more tools at this point. It is also important to point out that a Bibob opinion can be requested on the tolerated decision. The mayor can do that at the coffee shop, and the minister can do that at the grower's. That's kind of a guarantee, too. Mr Segers also asked the question what happened. I hope I have answered his question on this point too. The Bibob could really be a part of that. We do not want this to be an obligation, because it is not always relevant. Sometimes it's about a modification of the tolerance decision, something procedural, and then you don't want to be obliged to do another Bibob test. But you can. However, we do not have the guarantee that this will eliminate all risks 100%. I think it's important to say that, including for the history of law. I have just indicated that there is no tax evasion of 100% under any tax law. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the Police Data Act could be involved. I think I have answered his question, because every Bibob research is looking at it as well. Mr Van Oosten asked where the weed for the street trade should come from and whether this trade would not take place through pot plantations in attic rooms. I indicated that we are trying to achieve a closed coffee shop chain, but that illegality will remain partly there, including that part of exports. But we are going to try to do it in a targeted way so that illegality can be better dealt with. Of course, much more is needed for this. I also refer to the Minister for Security and Justice. Again, without repeating: my bill focuses on regulating the closed coffeeshop chain. The approach to illegal cultivation remains important and will not disappear. That approach is really an explicit task of the Minister of Justice. Mr President, this is the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u129	Here, Mrs Bergkamp did not initially want to ask for the opinion of the Public Prosecutor. That is why we have to take that advice today. That makes it take so long. That's very nasty, but it's no different. Mrs Bergkamp walks very lightly over that point of organised crime. The College of Attorney General is much clearer about that. It indicates that a very small minority of Dutch production is intended for the Dutch market and that the majority of it goes abroad. The College even warns that it is plausible that there will be a shift and that it will be even less manageable and that it will become even more unsafe. Would Mrs Bergkamp also like to respond to this? The D.A. doesn't see anything because it won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u130	This does not solve the problem of illegal cultivation and export. We make the market for criminals in the Netherlands smaller and less attractive, so hopefully they will also make less money and reduce their impact. We will. I therefore share Mrs Van Toorenburg's remark that it takes much more to tackle drug crime. I totally agree with that. By the way: how big is the export and how big is the market in the Netherlands? The WODC has done extensive research on this. The figures range from 30% to 97%. In the end, the conclusion was: we don't know. Of course, it is important that this is also a question for the Minister to keep his finger on the wrist and get a better grip on it. By leaving it uncomfortable, we have no grip at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u131	Mrs Bergkamp does not answer my question about the shift. I think she didn't study it properly either, and that's why I don't get a good answer. I think it is important for the Public Prosecutor's Office to draw a rather harsh conclusion: in order to reduce organised hemp crime, the bill is likely to have "no more than a fragmentary meaning." If we state that we do not believe that it will be healthier what is happening and if Mrs Bergkamp focuses all her efforts on safety, how can this be the opinion of the Public Prosecutor? It's not gonna be safer at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u132	I regret that Mrs Van Toorenburg says that I am focusing all my efforts on security and crime. I just had a whole paper on public health. So I'm gonna distance myself from her conclusion. It's her conclusion, but it's not my story. With all due respect to you, Mr President, I will come to that later, but I am a little disappointed that every time the D.A.'s note comes back. But I can also ask the other way around. There is an enormous amount of crime at the moment. If we don't do something now, it'll stay the way it is. If the Public Prosecutor then says it will only be a group, I say: I am happy with every inch less crime in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u133	This is the block of "organised crime." I don't know if Mrs Bergkamp knows what it's about. It's about a public prosecutor's opinion on organized crime. If the Public Prosecutor's Office indicates that this does not solve anything, how can we say today that it will be a little safer and that we will ultimately do something about organised crime? This doesn't do anything about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u134	I think this is a little weird. Mrs Van Toorenburg makes something very big and then says: it is not big. I understand the debate technique, but of course it's weird. When I say that exports will continue and that unfortunately there will also be young people who are using drugs, I think that is very realistic. I would point out that I hope that we can push crime out of the chain and reduce sales. At least I'm trying to do something about it instead of looking the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u135	I think it is a bit curious that we should not talk about the advice of the public prosecutor and the police, especially when it comes to dealing with illegal trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u136	Mr President, may I say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u137	That's what it's about, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u138	Can I just say something about that? I think we agreed that I would deal fully with the advice in the block of consultations. We didn't agree to discuss each fragment separately. You can, but we didn't agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u139	I think that is a very curious point. It's about dealing with illegal trafficking. If I'm not allowed to bring in the arguments of the D.A. and the police, we might as well stop. Then there's no point in talking about this. I am very serious in this debate from the outset. I'm really trying to understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u140	But I'm chairman now and I'm going to tell you something. The legislator is also very serious in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u141	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u142	I therefore reject the suggestion that this would be the case on the one hand and not on the other. The Member, Mr Bergkamp, has made it clear that, when it comes to consultations, she wishes to discuss this issue in detail. I, as chairman, give all the space to ask questions about this in the meantime. There are extremely many questions asked. I can even say that Member Bergkamp can hardly finish a sentence before anyone asks a question. I'm really cool, and there's witnesses to that. I'm really coulant tonight, because it's an initiative bill and because I see that there are differences of opinion in this house. But as soon as there is any appearance of deliberate opposition or anything else, I will intervene in a correspondingly harsh manner. We're gonna finish this bill tonight, including the second term. I'm not going to give in to the request for a haircut either. That's what I'm telling you. Now you ask your question about the document. A question can of course be asked about this. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u143	I have no idea what you're referring to, Mr. Chairman. Cut it or don't finish it? I want to finish it. We have received this advice. It's about illegal trafficking. Then I think I can make that argument. That is not an obstruction; that is simply very substantive. It is a substantive argument on this point. So I'm really trying to keep it substantive. The D.A.'s office says it's unlikely there'll be any less illegal trade, and the police say that in no scenario will the illegal trade be reduced. That is at least contrary to one of the arguments that the petitioner has used and which has often been flagged with, namely that the police costs will be reduced and a lot of capacity will be released because the illegal trade will be reduced because we can fight it better. If both the D.A. and the police say that this will not be the case, what does the petitioner know more than the D.A. and the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u144	Of course, we've been having a discussion about this for 40 years, and it's been in prison for 40 years. One weed plantation is rolled up and the other is recreated. At some point it is also a choice to break something. I didn't think the advice, the reaction, the police were so negative at all. There were bigger words in the public prosecutor's response. But the police, the justice system and the Public Prosecutor together are not getting a grip on this right now. My proposal is an attempt to gain more grip. I agree with Mr Segers that this does not include any major words such as: we are going to change the world. Absolutely not. My proposal is driven by public health. Fortunately, we have also thought about this for a long time. We are proposing a closed coffee shop chain to push crime out of there. We have a number of conditions which make it less attractive for criminals and reduces the market. That's what we do. And how's that gonna work out? I honestly don't think the D.A. knows that either. That's something we need to invent with each other. But if we don't do something now, we're gonna keep the situation we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u145	In this respect, too, your hope is my hope, namely that illegal trade will be reduced. But the police, which you say was not so negative, writes: "The export of hemp from the Netherlands is and remains lucrative and this market will not fall in any scenario." Therefore, this market will not decrease in your scenario either. So I hope it can be handled better, but the police say it won't happen. We need that capacity, we need that fight, and exports will continue. So let me ask you one more question: what do you know, what police and prosecutors don't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u146	I feel very much supported by the mayors and aldermen who say that they want to have more control and that they think that this proposal will also give them more grip. We've been talking about this for a long time. Look at the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office: of course, the process is also very difficult. Is there a magic wand with which we can make all crime disappear? No. I also believe that exports will continue to exist. What we want is to get that market in the Netherlands in a closed coffeeshop chain. In any case, we have guarantees of quality control and people know what they smoke. We're hoping to push that crime out of that chain. That's the mission I have. We all know how this is going to end, I say to Mr Segers. No. Neither does the Public Prosecutor's Office. Neither does the police. If one had known that, there would have been a ready-made story here years ago. I am trying to give impetus to the debate and policy that has been standing still for years. We have to do it right with each other. Coffee shop owners, growers, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Security and Justice and the Mayors are important for this. We all play a role in turning this tide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u147	I'm just trying to peel it off. I hear Mrs Bergkamp say that we have been talking about this for a very long time and we need to make a breakthrough. However, this is not a reason to think that the illegal trade is now suddenly being reduced. Just because we've been talking for a long time doesn't mean it's gonna be resolved suddenly if we throw it over another bow. That's point one. Point two, it's the mayors' hope. Point three, regulating the part we do have a view on, doesn't say anything about what goes abroad. What are the police and the prosecutors getting hold of, which they have not yet seen, so that they can fight illegal trade abroad more effectively? What makes us suddenly unlock police capacity and drop hundreds of millions like ripe apples out of the tree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u148	I understand Mr Segers' question. I think it's a fair question, too. I have tried to answer the question as well as possible by indicating that the focus of my initiative law is on the Dutch market. I want a closed coffee shop chain so we can push crime out. I'm focusing on the Netherlands. How to continue to tackle crime and exports is really a question for the Minister of Security and Justice. I realize that Mr Segers asked me about my embarrassment. I feel really shy about putting on very big pants at the moment and saying that my initiative proposal reduces all exports and illegality. No, I don't think so. I believe that this proposal sets a clear limit to what should and should not be done, making it easier to maintain. Let's not count ourselves rich, but we'll have more capacity. This will increase the capacity of the police and the judiciary. In any case, it is a desire of many parties to increase capacity because drug crime is a major problem. My initiative proposal is aimed at the Dutch market. What happens in terms of export and how big it is, we don't know. It is an important issue for all of us. I believe that we should be realistic in this respect. I will not be tempted to make bigger statements than the statements I make today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u149	Now that we are dealing with the block of 'organised crime, security and so on', I would also like to take up the issue of illegal street trafficking. I haven't heard from Mrs Bergkamp about that, but I assume it's part of this block. I'm very concerned about that. If you follow Mrs Bergkamp's proposal, then there can be no longer any illegal tapping of electricity, all kinds of inspections and so on. In other words, the cost of the cannabis that is going to be sold in the coffee shops will increase. At least, I don't know how else to do it. Couldn't that have the effect that users find the price too high and buy it on the street, with all the misery of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u150	In any case, a number of parties have asked what happens to the price. To ensure that the street trade is as small as possible, the price should not be too high and the offer should be diverse enough. That's a very important one for legal history. If people can't buy what they want anymore, the risk is very high that they go to the street. How does that price come about and how high will it be? In America, research has been done on this. You don't know what the price will be. On the one hand, there are factors that can increase the price, such as energy and tax payments. On the other hand, the price can also decrease, because the risk rate decreases and you have economies of scale. The Council of State feared that the price would be high, just like the SGP. There are two parties that expect the price to go up, but other parties expect the price to go down. I know you can at least have more grip on it. For example, you can ask for a consumer tax. It is a question of supply and demand, so as a minister you can increase the supply. Then the price goes down again. You can play with supply and demand. There is also the consumer tax. If you want to keep the costs lower, you can of course also make sure that you do not impose too many rules and that you do not make the permits too expensive. In other words, and very concretely, what the price will look like, they don't even know in countries where they already are. However, the government has several instruments to ensure that the price is not too high or too low. It is, of course, also a question of supply and demand, because it is also a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u151	For the purposes of the legal history to which Mrs Bergkamp refers, I would say that Mrs Bergkamp's bill is not only about a form of regulation, but also about a different term for it, but that it also proposes that the government plays a responsible role in determining the final price of cannabis sold in the coffee shops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u152	Last time I understood that there were fears in the Chamber that the price would be too high or too low. I state that the government can stand on the emergency brake if the price is too high or too low. For the rest, I really think it is a question of supply and demand. You have the growers and the coffeeshops. They have to determine the price with each other. But there are also fears in the Chamber. I wanted to reassure those parties by saying that there are a number of buttons that you can press.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u153	There are fears in the Chamber and that is why Mrs Bergkamp comes up with the answer that the government can turn the button and make sure that the price goes down. I have no idea if that's gonna work. I very much wonder. Actually, my point is this. We are now discussing a legislative proposal which represents a major change compared to the past few years. I do not like the fact that Mrs Bergkamp cannot in any way indicate what this could lead to for illegal street trafficking. What I do not want is to say to Mrs Bergkamp that it is not going to grow and that a larger group of young people and adults are going to use uncontrolled cannabis in the eyes of Mrs Bergkamp. We do not want illegal street trafficking to take place. I would like a little more certainty that this bill is not going to lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u154	I think that is a fair question. My own-initiative proposal is quite frankly aimed at the coffee shop being the place where you can buy cannabis. That is quite clearly the starting point of my initiative law, also in order to prevent street trafficking. Of course, diversity and the prize play a role. That's what I'm telling you. If the price is too high and there is too little diversity, people look outside the coffee shop. I'd like to avoid that. That is why I think it is important for the government to be able to play a role when things go wrong there. That consumer tax can be done. This also applies to all kinds of other taxes levied on other products. Excise duty on alcohol or tobacco is sometimes also used as an instrument to discourage use. So it's not that weird. But you can't charge VAT and excise duties on cannabis. We are going through a number of subjects very quickly and we come to the following block: international context. Quite a few questions have been asked about that. The Council of State, of course, has also looked into this. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van Tongeren asked why they chose to move from a system of exemptions to a system of tolerance decisions. They also indicated that they would rather have had a system of exemptions, also looking at the international conventions. The Council of State has assessed the previous proposal as regulated legalisation. That is the system of exemptions in which the penalty provision is actually put out of play. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked for that. We think it is important to look closely at the opinions of the Council of State. The Council of State therefore said that it was regulated legalization, a system of waivers and the removal of criminal provisions. When you look at the international treaties, there are considerable tensions. We took that very seriously. That is why we have changed the system to a system of tolerance decisions, i.e. regulated tolerance. In doing so, the sentence will remain, but no one will be prosecuted if he complies with the conditions. In this way, I believe, we have struck a good balance between the opinion of the Council of State and the international treaties. That is my response to the opinion of the Council of State and the question of why we have amended the proposal. Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij asked whether we should not withdraw from the international treaties. I don't think that's wise. The treaties are about much more than just hemp and hashish. They are also about vision and policy. The treaties are much more focused on harm reduction and criminalisation. It is important that the user is not criminalised. We believe that this is a very important starting point. In addition, the Netherlands is not alone. We feel a responsibility for other countries. If you step out of a treaty, it will have an effect and effect on countries that are not yet ready for their drug policies. Mr Van Nispen asked whether the treaties should not be amended. I think so, although I am standing here as the initiator of this law. The Treaties date back to 1961 and 1988. Our vision of what is and is effective has changed since then. So it seems very good to me if there is an effort to do so. That is why I am pleased that the Secretary of State for Health is here to indicate what we are going to do to get the treaties more up to date. Let me be clear, also in response to Mr Segers, that I do not think we should wait until the treaties are amended. Looking at the advice of the Council of State and our adjustment, I think we have found a good form. I have not yet mentioned the opinion of Van Kempen, which I would like to dwell on. I am not finished with the block on international treaties and so I am going to Van Kempen's research. He's done groundbreaking research. You have Van Kempen I and Van Kempen II. In the context of Van Kempen I, it was examined whether regulation, legalisation and decriminalisation may take into account international conventions. Turns out this isn't allowed in view of the drug treaties. Another study has been carried out under Van Kempen II. Then the human rights treaties were involved and Van Kempen said: if you can reason that it is good for human rights, so that legalising, regulating or tolerated positive effects on public health, public order and security, then the human rights treaties go beyond those international conventions. That is an additional argument to regulate first. If, after a good zero measurement and evaluation, it appears that this has the expected positive effects, then the step towards legalisation is small. That is what our proposal is based on. Van Kempen has given a number of conditions for this, which our proposal meets. It involves a number of spearheads, which can be summarized in a nutshell. Prevention, discouragement and detailed quality rules for production are the essentials to be met. Van Kempen's proposal is realistic, because he says you can't know now whether this is going to work. You must be able to justify it, and of course you must be able to demonstrate it after a zero measurement and evaluation. This was the international block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u155	I can see that Mr Segers has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u156	Today we have received the results of a test of our electoral programmes on the rule of law. The Christian Union was very proud to turn green. This will also apply to D66 to a large extent. Binding to international questions is very important. I find it problematic when you say that treaties should be adjusted because they are cramped, but that they do satisfy. I have spoken about it before in an interruption with Mr Koolmees. I would like to return to Van Kempen's analysis. The status of it is that it is an analysis that is arbitrary. The most generous exegesis on how it relates to the international treaties has caught the petitioner and put him here on the table. The D.A.'s office says it's only possible if you meet those five conditions. It is very doubtful whether this will be met. We have not been able to ask our written questions. So my question is whether Mr Bergkamp can indicate how this bill relates to that five criterion, in particular the fourth criteria on international trade, because that seems to me to be very problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u157	The five topics are being looked for as quickly as possible. We have, of course, looked at Van Kempen's comments in relation to our own initiative proposal, because that was already there. Then we changed the system of that waiver into tolerated decisions in which that penalty provision remains. Only if you meet the requirements will you not be prosecuted. That is quite an adjustment, which I believe, together with Van Kempen, we have struck a good balance between the opinion of the Council of State and Van Kempen. It is true that there are five subjects that Van Kempen says must be met. That's how it's relevant to human rights. Furthermore, I call it plausible that it is more effective. There's got to be support for it. There must also be a national democratic decision-making process. The public prosecutor's note confused that, in my opinion, because it didn't quite add up to what it said. In fact, it indicated that a number of things are being decentralised and that the democratic decision-making process is no longer national. Well, that's not right, of course. This is the debate we are having tonight, including the national decision-making process that we are discussing. So that's what we meet. No downside to overseas, a closed chain. Well, the whole initiative proposal is aimed at a closed chain. In addition, a compulsory policy of discouragement is mentioned. Well, I think that has been reviewed a few times this evening. When I look at the five conditions, I think that my proposal for an initiative law is a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u158	This is precisely the problem, namely that we are going through those five criteria with seven-mile boots, which the public prosecutor says are tough criteria, that it is difficult to meet them and that the applicant has not done her best to make it clear that the proposal meets those five criteria. And that's really problematic. If you're state of law, like the Christian Union, D66 wants to be, then international treaties can sometimes help in an argument; you can then refer and you can rub other people who have some trouble with it and rub it under the nose. If it contradicts you, then you've got to be honest about saying, guys, this is tricky, we want to be constitutional. If I look at the fourth criterion alone, no disadvantage to foreign countries and a closed system, and it has just been said that there is no idea what this proposal is doing to foreign countries and to exports, then it is problematic to say here in the quickness that it is satisfactory, when we really do not know? There are five tough criteria in which the prosecution says that it is not clear how the initiative proposal relates to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u159	I have just explained that I believe that my proposal meets those five building blocks. You just mentioned no disadvantage to foreign countries and a closed chain. My proposal involves a closed coffeeshop chain from cultivation to the coffeeshop. Discouragement policy is part of that. We can all walk past all these points and otherwise I would very much like to hear in your second term where my proposal does not meet those five building blocks. There is not enough time to go through all these five points, but in my opinion my proposal meets those five points. You will also find all the ingredients in our own initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u160	The burden of proof lies not with me but with you. The prosecution says that you must make clear how your proposal relates to those five criteria, and you have not done so so so far. You cannot say: this is good, that is good and this is all good. That's exactly the flaw. This is an important legislative proposal, an important amendment, which I do not agree with and which has always been said to be inconsistent with international conventions. There is one analysis that offers a small opening and that you use. You're not coming to an adequate defense. That burden of proof lies with you and not with me as to how your proposal relates to those five tough criteria. I really think this is an omission with such an important proposal, with such an important change. I don't think that's really possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u161	Then give me the opportunity to dwell extensively on these five building blocks. If that is a substantial element for Mr Segers, I really want to spend more time on it. The first criterion is the relevance of human law. I have just explained in detail that I voted in favour of the initiative proposal from the point of view of public health. I have explained in detail that this is about prevention, information and discouragement. People need to know what they smoke. There must be extensive quality checks. These are all subjects that Van Kempen points out are important to the interests of human rights. The proposal has therefore really been made on the basis of the importance of public health. In addition, as I indicated, we are trying to get crime out of the chain. The second criterion is to make it plausible that human rights should be protected more effectively. I have just indicated in all the interruptions that we believe that it is better for public health. Why? Local policy has an important role to play in combating addiction, discouraging and providing information. I have spoken about a clear distinction between soft and hard drugs and between what is allowed and what is not allowed. I have also indicated that discouragement can be achieved by a label, as with tobacco. I think my proposal is better for public health than it is for the present. I have tried to demonstrate this; that has been the whole purpose of this debate. The third criterion is acceptance and national democratic decision-making. The basis for the vote will be, hopefully, next week. We are working on national democratic decision-making here tonight. It's hard to be more democratic. The fourth criterion is: no disadvantage for abroad; closed chain. The essence of my proposal is that we have a closed coffeeshop chain, in which producers with a ministerial decision to tolerate supply to the coffeeshops which also have a decision to tolerate. This is how we try to remove crime from the chain. The resident criterion remains an option for the municipalities that choose to do so. I think that's quite a lot of towns. The municipalities that are afraid that it will lead to street trade can thus decide differently. It is a closed coffee shop chain and the resident criterion remains part of it. The fifth criterion is compulsory discouragement policy. That's been quite a block in my story and I don't think it's relevant to repeat that. So I do not understand why Mr Segers thinks that my initiative law does not meet these five criteria. I tried to explain it in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u162	I have the impression that your voice is almost failing, but I hope you will be able to keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u163	I'll be very brief. On the fourth point, the relationship with abroad, the police indicated the following. If you are going to regulate, you have no choice but to deal with the European issue. That's what you have to do with neighbors. Why? You get tourism, you get people who do cross the border. So it hits abroad. It concerns the relationship with the surrounding countries. This is one of five topics. We could talk about it longer, but I'm afraid we won't be able to do it tonight. What I find really problematic is that the police themselves report this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u164	The question was what Van Kempen thinks of that. He did not write in his opinion that the whole of Europe should first make agreements about foreign affairs and the closed chain; no. To be honest, that was Mr Segers' question: how does Van Kempen see it and how does your own initiative proposal comply with it? According to Van Kempen, you have to come up with a closed coffee shop chain. Now they're bringing the police back in. I took Mr Segers' question about Van Kempen and the five blocks very seriously. I hope I have given an adequate response to that. I'm going to the next block, the resident criterion. That is also very important. Mrs Volp and Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers and Mr Van Oosten are concerned about whether or not the criterion of residence can be maintained in the context of European law. The Council of State was indeed quite concerned, within the framework of the first proposal, about the exemptions and, as the Council interpreted them, legalising them. According to the council, it's gonna be difficult because the criminality is being dismissed. You should actually have free movement, without discrimination between tourists and your own residents. We have changed that, as I have indicated. That sentence stays. There is a regulated tolerance, which I am convinced and I expect the European Court of Justice, or a court or the Supreme Court, to say that the criterion of residence is allowed. It is true that we leave it to the municipalities in our proposal, but the municipalities that want it can simply apply the resident criterion. That is the case and it remains so in my own initiative law. Can it lead to differences? Yeah, that's right. Amsterdam can choose not to do so and I believe that it has also had discussions with the Minister or made agreements on this matter. The border regions, which suffer a great deal, can do it. That's the customization that's there, isn't it? You can already see in practice that not all municipalities maintain that I criterion. There is therefore a difference in current practice. I think this is enough about the resident criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u165	I have already raised my concerns in previous interruptions; I do not need to repeat them. I would ask Mrs Bergkamp to comment on the following. It states that the proposal is regulated. Even so, it introduces a dozen articles of law into our Code. I think it is a rather semantic discussion, whether it is purely tolerated or whether it actually leads to a legal outcome. The latter is the case. That makes it extremely risky, because then Union law comes around the corner. Union law states that a legal provision agreed in its own country should apply to all Union citizens. That resident criterion implies that the sale is reserved for its own residents. I don't want to lose that. Doesn't Mrs Bergkamp see that risk, or does she take it for granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u166	I have just explained that a side effect of the adaptation of our proposal of regulated legalisation, as the Council of State saw it, is that the penalty provision remains regulated. You're just not being prosecuted. This is really an important change and I sincerely do not expect the European Court of Justice to say that the criterion of residence cannot be applied. Indeed, there are municipalities that benefit greatly from it and they should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u167	Mrs Bergkamp says she sincerely does not have that expectation. I want to go along with her genuinely thinking that. At the same time, I think it is our job as a parliament to ensure that our border regions, Brabant, Limburg, Gelderland and so on, are potentially overwhelmed by drug tourists, who can get their drugs from the coffee shops in the Netherlands because the resident criterion falls. In the first term, therefore, I asked Mrs Bergkamp where she had her expectations checked, who helped her and what the VNG thought about it. Who can tell us more about this than just that personal view and expectation, because I think that is rather thin for such a crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u168	It's not my personal opinion. I have, of course, carefully studied the various judgments and cases in order to know what the judges themselves came up with. Of course, you won't know for sure until there's another court ruling. That's how it works in the Netherlands. You can't tell me what you think it's gonna be like if a judge hasn't ruled on that yet. When I look at the different statements, it has been very clear that what is punishable is... That's how you say it's weird when you have free movement. As a result, there is no discrimination between tourists and residents. We have, of course, changed that with our proposal. That sentence's still in there. It's still criminal. You're just not gonna get prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u169	One last question. The fact is that some ten articles of law are proposed by Mrs Bergkamp. This means that some kind of legitimate sauce is poured, regardless of whether I agree with that further, about the fact that in the Netherlands you can buy cannabis not only at the front door, but that it can also be grown and delivered regulated. That means that we are going to accept this in the Netherlands. We are not going to prosecute it and it is not being criminalized. It may be a criminal offence, but there's no prosecution. The outcome may well be that, according to Union law, you cannot distinguish between citizens. I would like to have a little more certainty from Mrs Bergkamp that this situation cannot arise. Mrs Bergkamp cannot give me that assurance. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u170	This is the certainty I can give you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u171	The Public Prosecutor's Office is also linked to this, because it actually becomes a word game. It's gonna be a word game because we're not saying we regulate it, but we actually do. We say it's not, but then you can't be prosecuted if you act by the rules. This is de facto a very clear policy no longer restrictive. That is why we used to be able to use the resident criterion and not anymore. The point is that we now have a very restrictive policy. Doesn't Mrs Bergkamp see that problem? Does she see that we no longer have the restrictive policy on the basis of which we have so far accepted that we are preventing foreigners from coming to the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u172	This is actually the same question as Mr Van Oosten's, but it is just a different one. So my reaction remains the same. By the way, we call it regulation. It's regulated. This is an amendment on the basis of which I expect that the Supreme Court, a court of law or the European Court of Justice will not judge otherwise than they have done before. Of course it's up to the judge. I don't want to go into the jurisdiction of the judge either, but it's not my expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u173	It may be silly to say, but Mrs Bergkamp only says she thinks this. She didn't even want to get an opinion from the state's attorney's office about her law. The prosecution continues to criticize and says that it may be different internationally, but Mrs Bergkamp keeps saying that it will be okay. It is really true with our border regions in a way that is actually unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u174	I didn't hear a question in that. Please continue, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u175	No, it was a warning, I think. I'm getting to the finance block. I think a lot has already been said about this. I just have some additions, looking at the time. We talked about the price. We have also talked about the 24.8 million and the expectations in it. I have not yet talked about the expectations of possible revenues and taxes, such as energy consumption taxes. Some 200 to 300 million in revenue should be considered; money that we are now missing out on. Since I have talked in detail about the price, I think I have already covered the issue of finance in sufficient detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u176	I do have one more question in this matter. Mrs Bergkamp has already mentioned prevention, but now we are talking about financial support. How does the initiator look at the preventive possibilities that will then emerge? In what way can any proceeds or money released by less police involvement be used for targeted prevention, both local/municipal and national government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u177	In the event of interruption, I indicated that it was a choice of the Chamber where we would make savings. In the explanatory statement, I indicated that part of the 24.8 million could be used to monitor quality control, which should actually be re-established. Of course, you can also choose to focus on prevention. In my opinion, these are all choices that we can make as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u178	Mrs Bergkamp said in an earlier block that she considered prevention to be important. Does it therefore consider it important that some of the proceeds should be earmarked for prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u179	I believe that information and prevention should indeed be promoted. However, I would like to have the debate with the Chamber on this before I start ear-taging money. I really think it is a responsibility for the Chamber to make choices in that regard. Mrs Volp also asked for a reflection on Stijn Hoorens' article and profit warning. I read that article. He also indicated: such a zero measurement, such an evaluation, is important. The design choices need to be well thought out and you need to closely monitor them. I agree. Mr Hoorens indicated that it could take years until you know the precise effects. I thought that was a very realistic idea. That is why such a zero measurement and the evaluations are important. I'm moving on to the consultations very quickly now. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg is gone. Yeah, I'm doing it real fast. A lot of questions have been asked about the D.A.'s piece and the police. It's always a pity if you want to present your initiative and get a piece very shortly in advance. Let me say a few things about that. There is criticism of decentralisation. That's what the police and the state's attorney's office report. They come with criticism. The explanation is obvious in itself, because the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are national organised organisations. Their focus is on the detection and prosecution of criminal offences. Our proposal is characterised by the problem of coffeeshops and the related public health aspects. That is first and foremost an administrative problem. My proposal opts for a decentralised approach to sales and, in part, for a rural approach to cultivation. After all, municipalities are now responsible for the tolerance of coffeeshops. That's what the municipalities can decide right now. This is true of course for municipalities in which this is discussed, because not every municipality has a coffee shop. So this decentralised approach is no stranger, but apparently it is difficult for the Public Prosecutor and the police, because they are organised nationally. I'm a little disappointed, too. Recently, the Chief Constable said that national police could be better embedded in local government. From that, I realized that there would be a decentralised direction after all. Let us be clear: as long as we have municipal autonomy and co-government, there will be differences between the municipalities. We have had several discussions on decentralisation and differences. I think the U.S. Secretary of State knows all about that. That is the choice I have made, which is in line with existing practice and vision. Then there are the international treaties. The Public Prosecutor's Office raises a number of issues, which we have, moreover, often exchanged in the reply. I have already indicated, in anticipation of this part, that the international human rights conventions already prevail over the drug treaties. I have just substantiated this with the five building blocks of Van Kempen. Another argument is, of course, that our present toleration of coffeeshops is not at present contrary to the Treaties. Why would it be with the cultivation? That's also a piece of ammunition for the discussion. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has difficulty in reducing its role. That's right. We opt for a more administrative approach, with more administrative enforcement. That is also a bit the criticism that the police have, as it were, looking at the municipal authorities. We opt for an administrative approach, with administrative enforcement. To be honest, that is also the correct solution, because we are talking about public health. That is the basis of the proposal. We are indeed cutting into the public prosecutor's domain. I can see why that's annoying. However, I believe that a public health issue does not belong in criminal law. As far as producers and quality control are concerned, we have opted for an administrative approach. In fact, we agree on the elimination of crime. I share the opinion of the Public Prosecutor that organised crime will only be partially reduced. We just switched that. How big that part is is part of the evaluations. It's got to turn out, too. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also talking about the signaling effect of the bill. This was also discussed in the debate. It would be difficult to explain that on the one hand you have tolerated cultivation and on the other hand you have not tolerated cultivation, which you must actively pursue. On the other hand, how can you explain that cannabis can be sold, but that it cannot be grown? That is the same reasoning, which is also difficult to explain. Then there's supervision. The prosecution notes that the legislative proposal is unclear as to how the chain will be monitored. That surprises me a little bit. In fact, no legislative proposal that is being dealt with sets out how supervision will be and will be maintained. You can find that in all kinds of policy notes. That's not normally part of a law. Whether there is administrative or criminal enforcement is, of course, a choice. We have chosen to make it more administrative. As a result, the D.A.'s office has become a little more remote. That's nothing special in itself. This is more the case in matters of administrative law. If someone does not comply with the decision to tolerate it, it will of course fall back into criminal law and you will have to deal with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is just a response to the questions about this and the notes we received today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u180	I got up out of my chair just as quickly, because Mrs Bergkamp took the word "bales" in her mouth. She said she'd understand that it's a pain in the ass of the public prosecutor's office, at least that's how I explain it, and that's how I understand that it's being assigned a different role. Excuse me now. Mrs Bergkamp doesn't make it sound like this is some kind of responsibilities game, where the Public Prosecutor's Office finds it difficult to say that it might get a little less to say? The Public Prosecutor's Office plays a crucial role in tackling organised crime and in tackling illegal street trafficking. The Public Prosecutor writes in this letter: my position is weakened. The police, another organisation of this kind which apparently finds the role to be a little less so, and therefore, in the eyes of Mrs Bergkamp, says: there are great regional differences and possibly also, I think, very relevant, an undermining of the legitimacy of public action. You can't take that off with the word "bums"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u181	I have kept such a big story and Mr Van Oosten will take one word out of it. That's okay, of course. I have said that both organisations have difficulty with decentralisation. That's right, because they're organized nationally. It's a choice how you do it. I think the discussion is about what you're doing under administrative law and some criminal law of all time. It is not good then, just as mayors will not like it when a lot of things are pulled into criminal law. The moment you take a step here from the point of view of public health, I think it makes sense to pull it into the administrative sphere. Then you take a little more away from the criminal law that you need at a time when someone doesn't comply with a tolerated decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u182	I can follow this explanation. At least, I think he sounds a lot more sympathetic than the word "bad" when it comes to the appreciation of the actions of the Public Prosecutor and the police. Let's just establish that for a moment. However, I do not think we can ignore the advice given here by both the police and the Public Prosecutor. The D.A. says his position is being weakened. And what does the state's attorney's office do? This fights against exports and illegal hemp cultivation. Next, Mrs Bergkamp says in her own bill that it adds nothing to that point, that it adds nothing to the reduction of house fires. What added value is there? That is the question I am concerned with and I do not get an answer from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u183	That the state's attorney's office is getting a smaller position, that's right. That's exactly what I've just stated objectively. If you pull it a little bit more into the administrative system, it's gonna take off criminally in there. I would like to return to Mr van Oosten's point that my proposal does not produce anything in the area of crime. That's not true. Even the police indicate that regulation under certain conditions can have positive effects on these consequences. When I read the police note, I'm not so negative about that at all. I can see that the police are critical of this decentralization and find it difficult. Yeah, that's a choice. That is why I think it is a good thing that we are debating this now, because this is a real political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u184	We received an A4 from the police. We can all quote sentences from that. I just quoted a sentence about undermining the legitimacy of police action. That is a crucial element that I would not want to ignore easily and quickly. The police are also talking about another point, namely that illegal trafficking is not prevented. Exports of hemp from the Netherlands are and will remain lucrative and this market will not decrease in any scenario. Exactly that causes, at least in my view, those house fires. As a result, there are people who start a hemp farm in their attic. They do that to finance their debts, or I don't know why. And that's exactly what I'd like to take away. I therefore ask Mrs Bergkamp again: what added value does her legislative proposal have and what potential does it have to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u185	We got the note from the police. Let me first say that I am very pleased that she has carried out her own research. That's what that note says. It says there have been developments. In the note one writes about the different scenarios and comes to a conclusion. The consequences for the legitimacy of police action, organised crime, nuisance and capacity deployment of the police are described. It is written: "It has shown that, under certain conditions, regulation can have positive effects on these consequences." So I don't think the police note is that negative, to be honest. I can see that the police have questions about this decentralised approach. Mr Van Oosten asks about illegal cultivation in homes, fires, crime and exports. I believe that I have kept a very realistic story about this. I have said that we are pushing crime out of the chain, that I expect that this will reduce the market in the Netherlands, but that, unfortunately, exports will continue to exist. However, I have also said that this will allow us to use police and justice more specifically. That's my story. I have said no more and no less, and I am not going to make it bigger than it is. That embarrasses me, to quote Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u186	Yeah, I like embarrassment on this subject. We're here to make a good law. I hope Mrs Bergkamp only wants one thing, namely a good law that works. We first had the advice of the Council of State. He says, "Don't do this." After that, the D.A. came to us. So those are the people who have to work on this in practice. And the police have come, where they stand with the legs in the clay. They need to get to work on this. The D.A. says it's in violation of international treaties. It is also said that the prosecution is being put at a disadvantage and that the pass is being cut off. There are major doubts about enforcement. Legal certainty and equality of law are at stake. It is written that the question is whether organized crime is being fought. And one wonders whether there is not a leaking system in which one has no idea who the plumber will be: closing imagery. Has Mrs Bergkamp had a moment of intellectual doubt? Has she at any point wondered: are we on the right track? We are now hearing all these doubts and all these warnings in a row. I assume Mrs Bergkamp hears it. It's about the D.A. It's about the police. There are the people who have to work with this every day. They say, "Don't do this, because this is not helping us." Has there been a moment of intellectual doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u187	Of course, you always have to be critical and open to new insights. That's good, and you have to keep doing that. Despite the fact that these documents have just come to me, I believe that the Secretary of State has said so in a debate, and I believe that we should indeed consider the extent to which our proposal is in line with this. However, with the reaction of the police, I was not that unhappy. However, there is a difference of understanding about the choice we have made with regard to the decentralised approach. There is also a difference of opinion because we are more concerned with administrative matters. The questions surrounding the international treaties are full of books and reports. I have tried to give the best possible answers to the questions raised by the Chamber. You can continue to step up on this issue of international treaties. Is this or is it not covered by these international conventions? Mr Van Kempen has written about this from the point of view of human rights. I was just talking about those five building blocks. In that respect, I did not find the comments of the Public Prosecutor's Office to be entirely new. But I do understand that there are a number of doubts about this and that a number of choices are being made. I think we should respect that, too. In this debate, I am trying to defend as best I can what solutions my initiative law offers and which are not. As far as exports and crime are concerned, I have said a few times that we should not make them bigger than they are. But we must not ignore the advice of all those mayors and aldermen, and of the VNG. Last time Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to this as a left-wing piece being offered to the Chamber. Yeah, we'll deal with that in no time! You've got pros and cons. It is now up to politics to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u188	It is certainly up to politics, but then you have to listen very carefully to the people who have to work on it in practice. These aren't the first of the best. These aren't people sitting three-high behind their desks a little daydreaming and coming up with an academic piece. These are people who stand with their feet in the clay and say: you cut us off; we cannot maintain this, and this does not help us in the fight against crime. These are very intrusive warnings, aren't they? These are the people who have to get to work and say, "Don't do it!" What does that do to Mrs Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u189	What that does to me? Let me be honest. I was not happy that I received information so shortly in advance, but when I read it I thought: we have a very good initiative proposal. With regard to this quote about Van Kempen and the international treaties, of course you have to take a serious look at it and you have to sit on the table with all the parties in order to implement it. This will include a member of the government who is going to do this with passion and enthusiasm and who is going to work with the whole sector of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the mayors, the coffee shop sector and the growers to make this a success. That is absolutely important. And of course, everyone has their ifs and buts. Some people are very happy about this: the police. The state's attorney's office is a little more critical. You need to listen to that. You have to look at how to make this a success, because I think everyone draws the conclusion that the current policy is not working. And I must say that I have not seen many amendments to make my own initiative proposal even smarter on a number of points. I'm still looking forward to that. For that we now have this debate together, but when I read these documents I thought: a number of things are recognizable, there are a number of concerns about decentralised policy. I believe in the responsibility of local politics in that regard. I don't believe in nationalizing everything. They're considerations, choices you make with each other in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u190	Just for the record, Mrs Bergkamp says that she finds it very annoying that she is getting this information shortly before this debate. Does she hear from the D.A. for the first time: Oh, we really don't like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u191	Two things. I thought it was very short, but I didn't think it was too short. We have been able to take a good look at it and prepare ourselves well. So I didn't think it was too short. I knew there would be a lot of questions about it, but when I read it I thought: well, fine. But I wasn't aware of the pieces, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u192	I really think we need to make a point of order here. We have repeatedly asked for opinions at the procedural meeting. We have repeatedly asked the initiator to ensure that the opinions are delivered. She didn't want to do that. She has even sent an e-mail to colleagues to indicate that she did not need the advice. If she had asked for the advice at that time, she could have got it, because it was apparently already at the offices of the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u193	And what is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u194	I am committed to making that clear here. It's not like the initiativer was mugged. She did that to herself because she didn't want the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u195	A point of order is a question that you would like to put to the Chamber in the context of the legal procedure that we now have. That is not the case. You're actually making a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u196	A personal fact, let me put it this way, because I asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u197	No, it's not a personal fact under the Rules of Procedure either. I really need to refer you to that. That's about a person. You are actually making a point, I would like to say. That's a point you can make. Well, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u198	Then I made a point, Mr President, but I do have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u199	That is formally nothing in the Rules of Procedure that we need to decide on, but perhaps you now have a question on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u200	Certainly, Mr President, because I am very concerned about the undermining. The state's attorney's office says that the undermining might be getting bigger. I would like to have the views of the initiator on this. What we are about to organise is that mayors and aldermen are going to be very close to organized crime. Does the initiator also consider that there is a risk, namely that there will be much more negotiations than at present on how much can be sold? Organised crime stirs itself during and for the handling of this bill in a way that the dogs would not like to eat, but that aside. Is it not very important to see how dangerous it can be for council members, civil servants, aldermen and mayors to actually negotiate with organised crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u201	The core of the proposal is to tackle a number of things that are not going well right now. That's the point. I can repeat my story one more time, but I shouldn't. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u202	I don't think Mrs Bergkamp even read the book on the undermining in Brabant, because otherwise she would understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u203	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u204	What is about to happen is that mayors and aldermen have to negotiate with organised crime to see how much money can be made. I don't think Mrs Bergkamp will be able to explain that later. That is the undermining that the Public Prosecutor warns of and I have not yet heard a start of an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u205	I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's emotion, but I do not think that reproach is justified. By the way, I did read the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u206	You don't have to say that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u207	Yes, but it is important to point out that we have very serious problems with drug crime as a result of current policies. Mrs Van Toorenburg looks away from that, and I regret that. I come to the following block: the transitional regime. Let me be very brief about that. I think it is important that we do this carefully with each other and that we look at when there is sufficient supply. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about this. What does "as far as reasonably possible" mean? The answer to that question is that there must be sufficient supply. That is why we have decided on a transitional situation with each other. Mrs. Volp asked if you shouldn't have a drive or a stimulus. Sure. I think it is important that the Chamber urges the Minister to come quickly with a General Measure of Governance. It is important that the mayors take a good look at how the coffee shops are doing with the purchase of cultivation. It's a new situation and that's why I'm afraid to state a deadline. I can say it may take two years, but what we're doing here with each other is quite a change. It just takes time. There must be sufficient growers. I expect there will be, but of course they also have to meet all kinds of requirements. To answer Mrs Volp's question, the Chamber can encourage this process to be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u208	Was this the block on the transitional regime or are you not done with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u209	Yeah, I'm done with my cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u210	I would point out to the Chamber that the net speaking time for box K is 56 minutes. The time used is 2 hours and 24 minutes, so you know exactly how many interruptions have taken place. I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u211	I am asking Mrs Bergkamp how people will be treated with backgrounds or with criminals who apply to grow, the tolerated regulation that Mrs Bergkamp stands for. How will there be dealt with any criminal antecents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u212	I think I answered that question. A Bibob key can be requested. That is also part of this proposal. This is possible for growers and for coffee shops. The various parties have the opportunity to conduct such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u213	That's a possibility, but does that mean as much as... Mrs Bergkamp asked the municipalities to play a role in granting a permit. If you want something from a municipality, she can have a Bibob test performed. If this results in a negative assessment, and this is the case if you have a criminal record, does Mrs Bergkamp say that such a person is not eligible for cultivation, as she suggests in her initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u214	My proposal includes the possibility of a Bibob test. That's the answer I want to give. In the end, it's up to the mayor to decide how he or she deals with it. The grower will be given a tolerated decision by the Minister, of which a Bibob test may also be part. However, I leave that balance to the people concerned as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u215	Yes, but then Mrs Bergkamp does not speak out on the question of what to do if a criminal would now apply to grow on the basis of her proposal, to do regulated cultivation, to tolerate regulation or whatever you call it. I am concerned that I do not want to be intertwined with organised crime, which may otherwise arise. So I am actually asking Mrs Bergkamp to speak out very explicitly and to say that there is no place for criminals in my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u216	It's tempting to give a targeted answer to that, but I'm not gonna do that. Part of my initiative law is to facilitate mayors and the minister so that they can do their job as best they can. They can ask for a Bibob test. They shall make the assessment and take the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u217	In my first term, I asked how we would prevent us from making use of the tolerated offer until the end of the day. I must say that I do understand the concern that we have been working on for a long time. I think this is a very important point. Mrs Bergkamp states that she does not want to add a specific timetable to it. Still, I'd like a little more. Is there any possibility of saying something at AMvB about percentages that can be transferred during the period of the law's operation? The point is that tolerated coffeeshops have to reduce the tolerated crop in an increasing percentage in order to keep their licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u218	I understand Mrs. Volp's impatience. I also find her proposal creative to look at a General Measure of Governance. But it will have to be rebuilt. I think it would be a good idea to go a little further, so that the Minister also has a better idea of how it can be dealt with. Subsequently, the Chamber may ask the Minister about the state of play and may eventually ask him to send the General Measure of Management to the Chamber. Then we can find some of that, and we can also include these kinds of criteria. I'd do that trial at another time, but of course I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u219	I would like a statement of principle on this matter. How can we get the stimulus in the right direction? Once again, this non-committality is a matter of concern for my party. I would therefore like to say something about the initiativer's explanation of how we should deal with this. We may be able to talk about it at an AMvB, but I think this is part of the core of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u220	I agree with Mrs Volp. The Chamber may, of course, ask the Minister to speed up the General Measure of Management. You can even specify a deadline in the law for when this General Measure of Governance should be there, as we once did in a law on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I'm really careful to give you a deadline for when that weed, that cannabis has to be there. That's really hard for me. You can't ask coffeeshops to buy in when the cultivation isn't ready yet. So we're really gonna have to go through it with each other, but we're gonna have to keep our finger on the wrist. I imagine that Mrs Volp is using her parliamentary instruments, such as motions, to get an update every six months or every year, so that the Chamber can direct its action on that basis. I see Mrs Volp walking backwards very quickly. I hope she's not very indignant about the answers right now. No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u221	I think she's thinking about her second term. We're going to the last block: the assessment. I shall then give the floor to the advisers, the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u222	That's right. I can be brief about the evaluation. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me what the D66 agenda is for all kinds of drugs. She also quoted a D66'er in Amsterdam who had said a few things in an interview. She asked how that relates to what I say as initiator. Because I am the initiator here. It is important that we treat and look at the different types of drugs differently. You can't compare heroin and ecstasy to cannabis. So whether you need to legalize or regulate everything... I am not in favour of banning a lot of things, because I simply do not believe in them in the light of developments in the world, the confusion of drugs and their effects. I don't think you can make a general statement about it. You have to look at what makes sense by drug. Let me give you an example. In 2006, unfortunately, Minister Borst ensured that heroin would be provided free of charge to heroin addicts. I remember that Mrs Van Toorenburg's party and the VVD were against this for a long time too, because it was expected to lead to more crime and more addicts. There was also the fundamental point that people had to go into rehab. In the end, it is regulated by Mrs. Borst in the law. Turns out it was good for addicts. There were no more addicts, and crime was getting worse. With that, I want to point out that you have to look at what wisdom is per situation and per drug. I would like to conclude, almost, with that, Mr President. I think that's important. We need to keep an eye on developments. This is a whole new direction we're going on together. We are going to do this carefully, through a transitional period and with different safeguards, a zero measurement and different evaluations. I also think that this is the way we should proceed. We must also be open to new insights, which will be assured in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u223	Can I understand why Mrs Bergkamp does not agree with what her colleague in Amsterdam said? It has quite literally said to me that it is D66's agenda to legalise all drugs, i.e. soft drugs and hard drugs, as soon as possible. Now that I hear Mrs Bergkamp say that she wants customization, I am already a little more relaxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u224	Of course, it shouldn't be a well-nuke game, but the one in Amsterdam has said that you have to treat all drugs differently and that heroin is something other than ecstasy. The advantage is that you can test the quality and you know what people have in their hands. I think that's the point. You have to treat the drugs differently, because you can't compare them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u225	Then I guess Mrs Bergkamp has a different interview ahead of her than I did with him. In it he said quite literally that the agenda of D66 is: legalizing all drugs, i.e. soft drugs and hard drugs. But I do not hear the initiator say that and I am somewhat reassured by that on this Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u226	I don't see it in the literal text either, but okay. Even on that you can have a discussion, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u228	We've had the answers of the initiator. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice. In dealing with this bill, he acts as an advisor. For the sake of completeness, I'm just going to say that, and everybody knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u229	Mr. Chairman. As an advisor, too, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Berndsen and, of course, the support for the fact that they have brought it to this point. As a Member of Parliament, I once had the right to defend own-initiative laws. I know it's a lot of work, that it's also a good time to be standing here and that it's also quite a task. It is a very important democratic right that Members of Parliament can also act as legislators. The division of tasks with the Secretary of State will be such that I will make a number of general comments before I go into the questions I have asked. The Secretary of State will deal in particular with public health aspects. First of all, I have some general comments. The initiativer understandably gives the current problematic aspects of hemp growing supplies to coffeeshops as a motivation. The initiator wants, and is also convinced, that the legislative proposal can at least address some of these problematic aspects. When I look at the practical and legal implications of the legislative proposal, there are reservations about the hope, or the desire, that important problems will be solved with this bill. It certainly raises a number of questions with the cabinet. First of all, it raises questions about the legal system. The proposal provides for the possibility that persons subject to a tolerated decision by mayor on the one hand and the Minister of the United States of America on the other hand will be protected from prosecution of offences committed by them. In such a construction, the scope of the prosecution exclusion ground is not laid down in the law, as has been customary until now, but is filled in by the mayor and the minister of VWS. This has implications for the prosecution policy. This is no longer determined nationally by the Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as this law enters into force, but actually completed by the local government. This leaves an important legal point of departure, which is also laid down in the Law on the Judicial Organisation, namely that the Public Prosecutor is responsible for the enforcement of the law in criminal matters. I will return to the specific questions that have been asked about the Public Prosecutor's Office. Another important aspect is the relationship with international treaties. The conclusion that there would be a positive obligation to regulate cannabis cultivation and trafficking for recreational use is open to discussion. I'll get back to that in a moment. A particular aspect is the duty of care of the Minister of Health. It is obliged to ensure that sufficient hemp is grown in the Netherlands for the exploitation of coffee shops. It is a very special figure to make a minister responsible for the delivery of a product, with all its consequences. This bill raises questions about the division of powers, because supervision of the tolerated acts is spread over the mayor, the minister and the police. Such a spread of supervision entails the risk of unclear situations. Who should act if a grower violates rules? Should we opt for criminal or administrative measures? I come to the financial underpinning of the bill. Last week, the cabinet stressed the importance of initiative legislative proposals having a sound financial basis in response to questions in the First Chamber. They have financial consequences that have to be paid for. The justification for the savings in enforcement costs is not entirely conclusive. Probably the calculation of the savings from the Softdrug cultivation sheet comes from regulating the Task Force policy alternatives. But that sheet is a limited regulatory scenario. It does not contain the effects of this law. The expected savings of 130 million in energy taxes and VAT, which are now being missed as a result of energy theft, seem to ignore the fact that when this law is introduced, cultivation for export will not disappear. To the extent that there are reliable figures, that is the majority of cultivation. A very large proportion of this 130 million will still be missed. I come to the end of my general considerations. The cabinet understands the desire to solve problems surrounding the way coffeeshops and hemp deliveries are now regulated. But the way the bill tries to answer those problems really raises a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u230	I don't know if it's customary for me to ask a question about the government's advice. I would like to make one comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u231	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u232	I'm taking out the point of savings. The Minister could indeed question the amount appointed by the initiator as potential savings. It's possible. Maybe the savings aren't as high as they are. But in my view, the Minister does not doubt that there will be a saving. It is only a question of whether it is as large as the explanatory memorandum. In short, it is so pure to state that clearly. It is therefore not the case that the Minister undermines the basis. He only says that the savings may be less rosy than the amount the initiator currently assumes. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u233	That's right. There is a division of tasks for an initiative legislative proposal. The applicant shall provide supporting evidence. I have sometimes made an initiative proposal with cover. Again, I do not underestimate the task that that entails. The government provides for an opinion on the plausibility of coverage and other arguments in this case. It's not like I'm putting my own calculation on that. I would just point out that I do not think the amount of 130 million is plausible, because in this 130 million there are also the lost income from the cultivation for export.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u234	The division of tasks is perfectly clear to me. I can also say that even higher amounts have been mentioned earlier. She didn't even repeat it. But the question is not whether or not there is coverage for the proposal. The point is more whether it yields the state treasury more, so a little bit more or a lot more. That's actually what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u235	I understand. But more than in words, it cannot be caught now, while the implications of legislation are, of course, quite unbearable. We obey laws. This also means that the financial consequences must be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u236	Mrs Van Toorenburg, I apologise, Mrs Van Tongeren. Doesn't matter. It starts with a t.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u237	Well, we can see some difference ourselves, so thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u238	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u239	The question is how important this is for a bill. If you have to pay for it, this is very important. If it saves money, how important is it for the effect of that bill or that 50 million, 100 million or 150 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u240	This bill will inevitably entail costs, because agreements have to be made at local level. These agreements will also have to be monitored. There may be a benefit side to it, but also a cost side. Once again, I think it is self-evident that legislation has a clear picture of the financial situation both on the benefit side and on the cost side. I have been asked here as an advisor and I note that the financial side has not been as clearly depicted as would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u241	Question one is: can the Minister do that himself? Question two is: how does this prevent the adoption of this proposal? Or would it only be better if we knew more precisely? The costs that the minister has just outlined can certainly not be 100 million. Moreover, the Empire is undoubtedly not going to reimburse them to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u242	I was asked if I could calculate it myself, but there is a law that I have a lot of respect for; I have done it sometimes. It is then your job as legislator to indicate the effects as precisely as possible. The question to the government, which I represent in this case, is how it assesses it. I must say that a number of aspects raise questions. The financial aspect is one of them. I don't think this has been fully portrayed. Wouldn't it be wrong if I didn't say that? I come to the questions put by the Chamber. Mr Koolmees asked if the cabinet was prepared to look at the growing social support for regulation. I agree that this debate is being held firmly, but the cabinet has seen no reason to come forward with a proposal. I can't rule out the possibility that a next cabinet will consider it. Mrs Van Tongeren asks if, now that my party is in favour of smarter regulation, I have a different opinion on it. I'm acting here as Minister of the Cabinet. That's why I was invited. So I am sticking to the government agreement that this cabinet has agreed. I am also looking at the feasibility of this bill. That's why I'm invited. I have no reason to say anything else about that than I intended to say anyway. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked for the advice of the College of Attorneys General and the police. They were sent to the chamber. They have just been discussed so extensively in this debate that I do not think it will add much if I go into it in detail again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u243	Why have the advice been with the Ministry for so long? Why weren't they sent to the room before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u244	I have looked back on it for a moment: to my best knowledge, they have not been asked to the Minister before. Two weeks ago, for the first time, the Minister was asked to send them to the Chamber. They have been asked to do so by the initiator. That is the answer to Mr Segers' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u245	I try to understand: do I understand correctly that the initiator had the advice before the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u246	No. Mr Segers asked why the Minister had not sent the opinions before. The answer to that is: because they were not asked to the Minister before two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u247	Would it not have been appropriate to send those opinions to the initiator and the Chamber so that they could be involved in our considerations earlier, for example in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u248	I also refer to the practice of own-initiative legislation. For example, I have sometimes asked the Dutch Bank for an opinion on an initiative law because I thought: let me ask myself because who knows if they will ask in the Chamber and then it will take me time again. We must remain pure in the division of labour. I was asked for the advice two weeks ago. You can see from the data that one really did not arrive until today and that the other turned out to be available earlier. To my best knowledge, the Minister has not been asked before. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how the government looks at regulating cannabis as a first step towards normalising all drugs. The cabinet is not in favour of it, but it is not in favour of it either. Mrs Van Tongeren, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers asked for a response to the relationship with international treaties. The applicant claims that the legislative proposal remains within the scope of international treaties. The opinions of, for example, Van Kempen indicate in the first instance that allowing for recreational use of hemp cultivation is not compatible with UN drugs treaties and European law, but in a second report the researchers took the view that obligations from the human rights conventions offer scope; they actually go a step further, they believe that there is even a positive obligation under human rights treaties to regulate cannabis cultivation and trade. They believe that this positive obligation also goes beyond the conventions concluded precisely in order to combat drug trafficking and drug trafficking. I can't follow the scientists in that, to be honest. In my view, the correct conclusion is that, in protecting human rights, states can only choose means that are in line with both the human rights conventions and the UN drug conventions. I therefore do not share the conclusion that there would be a positive commitment from the human rights conventions. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Koolmees have asked whether we can work together with Uruguay and Spain to adapt the international conventions so that legalisation is allowed. I don't think that's a logical route. Nor is there any signal from these countries that they themselves would be interested in this. Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Koolmees and Mr Van Oosten have asked how the government sees this law relate to the resident criterion. The European Court has held that recourse to freedom does not succeed if it concerns the sale of narcotic drugs which are further prohibited. The draft law does not change the criminality of the sale of narcotic drugs and therefore does not change the sale of any legal products by coffee shops. The government therefore sees no limitation in this legislative proposal on the application of the resident criterion, although, if the law is adopted and applied, each municipality will have to remain within the area provided by the European Court of Justice. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked how the cabinet looks at Cannabis Social Clubs or a coffee shop 2.0. This involves giving more space to municipalities to experiment with cannabis cultivation. The cabinet sees no reason to take that step now. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how questions like who can legally grow, how much stock can be kept and how to prevent intimidation from increasing because mayors will have something to give away that might be attractive. The legislative proposal lays down an important competence for the issue of tolerance decisions for cultivation to the Minister of VWS. In addition, the mayor won't be able to get into a split so quickly. With regard to the sale, there is a major role for the city council. The mayor's move is to issue a tolerative order for the sale. So in that position, a mayor might become vulnerable. Mr Van Nispen asked for a response to what has now become an amendment: the two-year deadline for exemption. These two years are largely in line with Mrs Bergkamp's comments on the time-limit for operating licences currently in use by the municipalities. So I see no major practical problem in the original two years. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for a broader reflection on the production of soft drugs and specifically the problem in the south of the country. As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, even in my brief past as Minister of Security and Justice, we have already talked about this a few times. I am very committed to tackling the undermining crime. My predecessor has made additional money available for this approach. In response to this morning's call from the drivers, I am going to look very seriously at the wishes they have and the proposals they make. I have indicated that I will return to the Chamber on this matter. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked if there was a clearer picture of the volume of production. A sketchy image was made by the WODC, last in 2014, but that sketch yields a bandwidth of 171 to 965 tons. That's both a lot, but it's a huge bandwidth. Mr Van Oosten asked how the cabinet was looking at the concerns that organised crime, even when the bill was being implemented, would continue to grow for the international market. I believe that, even if the bill is adopted, there will be a large crop for export. It will continue to be a criminal offence, including in the context of this bill. This will therefore remain an important playing field for organised crime. Mr Van Oosten also asked me how I look at the risk of burning and illegally draining electricity. Isn't that going to be increased by this law? The initiativer's ambition is that the law will lead to less illegal cultivation, thus reducing the risk of illegal tapping and house fires. Of course, we can only look forward to this, but assuming that most of the cultivation is for export, it is not likely that the risks will be greatly reduced. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me to address the possibility of taxation in the light of the fact that there is an international ban on taxation of illegal products. Mr Koolmees asked how we would look at a consumer tax against the same background. Mrs van Toorenburg is right that taxation, VAT or excise duties on hemp should not be allowed on the basis of this bill. There is no question of legalisation. The assessment of a consumer tax, Mr Koolmees' question, is that you cannot actually do that if you do not explicitly legalise it. Mr. Chairman. I hope that the specific questions put to me and the general consideration on the part of the cabinet will have been sufficiently explained to the Chamber. However, I see that there is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u249	There is another question, but I think it was satisfactory to look at most of the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u250	I just want to know why the Minister did not send the opinions to the Chamber immediately when we asked the last time, and at least the opinion of the Public Prosecutor who has been in the drawer since 15 November. Why wait so that we do not get that opinion until after the work is done today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u251	Mr Segers asked the same question. I am aware that the first question to the Minister to which I replied was that of Mrs Van Toorenburg to me two weeks ago. Before then, there has never been a question to the Minister, but a question to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u252	That's what I'm saying. I asked the Minister two weeks ago if I could get the advice. Then I do not understand why I have to ask again in the course of the work today and only get the piece today. Why didn't I just get it two weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u253	Oh, we talked in two weeks. The reason for this is very practical. I didn't get the advice from the police until today. It seemed logical to send them at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u254	I think that reasoning is wrong. I think it is important if such a law is to be dealt with tonight and there is such an opinion that the Minister could have ensured that the Chamber received it earlier and not only after a repeated request today. We could have looked at this two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u255	I am very sorry that I have done such a long period, two weeks, about sending advice. But the other advice really wasn't there until today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u256	Thank you for your answers. I'm gonna give the floor to the Secretary of State when he's done and the papers are reordered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u257	Mr. Chairman. For my part, I would like to congratulate Mrs Berndsen and Mrs Bergkamp on the initiative for this law, and perhaps in particular on the attempt to give new impetus to cannabis and coffeeshop policy. For my part, it is good to address a number of aspects that affect my portfolio specifically. These are the housing aspects and the new responsibilities for the VWS Minister, as provided for in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u258	You mean public health and not housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u259	Did I say "people's housing"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u260	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u261	It's so messed up these days, but it's the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u262	Healthy in our own house, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u263	Although I might want to involve the Minister of Housing. It is good to note that an important objective of the initiator is to make the importance of public health more important in drug policy. I agree. I have also advocated this internationally. Whatever you advocate internationally, you must also do in your own home as much as possible. So I think it is appropriate to consider whether we can approach drug policy much more through the glasses of public health. That is also the purpose of this bill. The legislative proposal therefore contains a number of sympathetic and interesting additions to the current policy. I would like to make a few comments. As far as public health is concerned, it is also difficult to assess the final effects. The aim of the legislative proposal is to improve the quality of cannabis if possible, for example by establishing more specific and finer rules. This allows you to make demands on the use of pesticides and pesticides on the one hand, and on the other hand the THC and CBD rates on the other. One comment is that research has been carried out by RIVM which shows that the quality of cannabis currently sold in coffee shops presents little risk as regards the presence of pesticides. I therefore believe that the effect of this should not be overestimated. The same applies to the comments made on THC and CBD. Yes, stronger cannabis can have more negative effects than cannabis with lower THC levels. At the same time, there is also evidence that the CBD content protects. I remember a discussion with the applicant in another context about setting standards at the THC level. Also then she said that it would be very difficult to draw a good limit for a responsible THC content. There is little scientific research on this, as the applicant herself said. From the point of view of public health, it is good to continue to emphasise that it is not an innocent product. This has also been pointed out a number of times in the Chamber. It may lead to health incidents in limited groups. So we should keep a very close eye on these vulnerable groups. Addiction problems in young adults in vulnerable groups are, to a large extent, origins in the use of cannabis. In assessing the legislative proposal, it is very important to bear in mind the impact on the prevalence of use and the health risks associated with it. The Court has expressed this by asking whether there is a normalising effect of this bill or regulation in general. The answer is, of course, that we do not know that correctly. You can, but you don't have to. Experience and research data are lacking in this area. From a public health point of view, I do, of course, have concerns as to whether this could lead to an increase in prevalence. It's hard to estimate. From the point of view of public health, I think it is important to note this. If this regulation would lead to a higher prevalence, I have public health concerns about it. The second aspect is the duty of care of the VWS Minister. Let me simply say that the Minister is obliged to ensure that enough cannabis is grown in the Netherlands for the exploitation of coffee shops. That duty of care puts the Minister of VWS in a somewhat dual position. On the one hand, the VWS Minister must ensure that there is sufficient cannabis. On the other hand, policies are aimed at preventing this through prevention and care policies. So that's not going to be easy. So there is a bit of a double role. Mrs Volp's amendment to at least get information from the municipalities so that a proper assessment of the amount of cannabis needed can be made helps. Of course, it doesn't help with that dual role. The division of roles between the minister of VWS and the municipalities on the one hand and enforcement on the other is not yet crystallised in this bill. In other words, the applicant said that the main route would be regulated here and that enforcement and division of labour would have to be further developed at AMvB. I note, however, that this legislation still requires a great deal of work and that the initiator leaves a great deal of room for me and my colleague to fill in the AMvB. Now you can say: that is a good thing. I heard the applicant say that she does not want to set a deadline with regard to how exactly this should be reflected. I am counting on the House not to pass that deadline on to the government, if there is so much to figure out on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u264	This does raise a question. The Secretary of State says "don't give me a deadline," but I assume he also believes that the transition to tolerated cultivation should be stimulated in some way. I understand that he may eventually want to move towards a system of licensing as small as possible, with prevention leading to fewer needs. That'd be great. That might be a side effect of this law. But we do have to move in the direction of the tolerated cultivation. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u265	Not yet, because we are talking about this bill. I note that this legislative proposal sets out a main route with a division of tasks that should be further developed at AMvB. This brings with it two questions. What exactly is the matter with this division of labour? This still requires some study. We need to look at what is going on and what it means for the different responsibilities. Mr Van Nispen asked a question about this. The second question is what is the pace with which you can deal with the regulated policy of tolerance in relation to cultivation. I also agree that this should be done as soon as possible. Since we have a whole section before that, what exactly is that responsibility going to look like? I cannot currently estimate how much time we would need to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u266	I understand that, but the question is whether the State Secretary agrees with me that in the AMvB something of a path should be indicated that ultimately leads us to 100% reduction in tolerated growers. That must be linked to a timeline in that AMvB in some way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u267	This means that it is important to hear in this Chamber, in the history of law, the Court's ruling that it is the intention to move as quickly as possible to those tolerated growers. Once again, that is not yet in this legislative proposal itself, because that space is now, I think very consciously, offered in the elaboration in the AMvB. So I would point out that it still has to be worked out very much, both in substance and in terms of: what does that mean for the timetable? Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked about quality. Mr Van Nispen asked whether this bill would contribute to the control and improvement of quality. This can be done, with the comments I have made, namely that there should be no excessive expectations in relation to the current situation, given the comments I have made on pesticide and RIVM research. There is still little knowledge about the effects of the THC and CBD levels. What is to be expected from the VWS side in terms of the continuing investment in prevention? Bill or no bill, much has already been invested in information and prevention. That is what we want to continue with. Even if this bill is adopted, there will be a strengthened commitment to school education. I also mention the healthy school content, the infolines, the websites and the information to parents. That will certainly be continued. As far as I am concerned, the policy of discouragement at local level will and will continue to be preventive. VWS will continue to monitor local policy closely in this respect. The question has also been asked whether we are working together with Uruguay and Spain to remove cannabis from the list. Mr Blok has just made a number of comments on this. In this context, I would like to point out that the Netherlands has worked both nationally and internationally and remains committed to a well-founded and scientific drug policy. At the moment, cannabis is as well scaled as heroin internationally. The World Health Organisation will consider next year whether a new scientific study on cannabis is needed. In view of the Dutch policy that should be decided as far as possible in order to assess the harmfulness of substances, we support this initiative of the World Health Organisation. It has also been asked whether this bill is an adaptation to the regulation of other drugs. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for this in a different way. I do not read this in the present legislative proposal and I am pleased to note that this is not the intention of the applicant either. Mr Segers asked whether I agree that normalising use will lead to more addicted young people and asked how this relates to efforts in this area. That's a matter of concern. I have just said that, if there is a feeling that this bill would lead to standardisation and therefore more prevalence, I have concerns from a public health point of view. I have also pointed out that it is difficult to estimate whether there will be an increase in consumption. At present, experience or research data are lacking. This is also the case with regard to international figures. Numbers are a bit different. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned Colorado. This concerns policy that was launched in 2012 without coffeeshops. The use was already higher anyway. I believe it was 21% among students and 5% in the Netherlands. Actually, I haven't seen any numbers yet that would allow you to properly interpret the effects of more legalization or regulation. I didn't see those numbers. They're running through each other. I have also tried to put the latest figures from the United States together. It is, however, quite impossible to do that at this stage, with so little experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u268	We do know where we stand now, in terms of addiction and use of cannabis. We can figure out what that's like later. How do we keep the finger on the wrist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u269	We're doing a lot of research on that. We have 2015 figures on the number of students using cannabis. The Trimbos Institute will carry out a new strategic exploration of cannabis use by vulnerable young people in the first half of 2017. We are actually asking the Trimbos Institute to continuously monitor the impact of current policies and possible future policies, if legislation changes in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u270	Suppose it has the wrong effects, that it's working out in the wrong way. We all hope not, by the way. Could that be a reason to intervene? Let's say it's all out of control, and we see that the hope we had that we could regulate, dampen and limit, doesn't come true. Then can we intervene? We have the current figures every year and can therefore see what the effect of this law, if it comes into force in the future, will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u271	I am strongly in favour of looking at the development of drug use and the effects of prevention and discouragement policies, not only on the basis of this bill. I am very much in favour of discussing this regularly and of getting a policy adjustment if, according to the figures, this is the case. So we will certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u272	I have one short question. We heard our colleague Van Toorenburg say that weed is an assassin. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how many people died in the Netherlands as a result of pot use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u273	I don't have those numbers ready. We do see in the figures of addiction care that, compared to alcohol, the rates for drug use are lower. In the case of vulnerable young people, the applicant herself pointed out that there is often a history of addiction in which soft drugs have started. I see that Mrs Van Tongeren does have the figures and she can probably mention them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u274	The Jellinek says that 4,000 people die every year as a direct result of alcohol and that there is no mortality due to hash or weed. The Secretary of State doesn't know that. We just got a story about anyone who starts with it possibly ending up with the hard drugs. I do not see in the figures, either from the RIVM or the Jellinek, any evidence that there is such an automatic sliding scale. Most people in the United States who use weed stick to pot use. Can the Secretary of State add anything to that on the basis of the Dutch figures or do we share a little guesswork with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u275	These figures are always a bit in a certain direction to interpret, depending on the glasses you put on. Drug use often starts with the use of soft drugs. That's what the numbers show. But that doesn't mean that if you use soft drugs, you automatically go to the hard drugs. However, I would like to emphasise, also from my position as Secretary of State for Health, that this is not a risk-free product. That was also the point made by the applicant. In all that you do with each other in this area, you must therefore continue to emphasise prevention and discouragement. I understand from the applicant that it is also her intention that prevention and discouragement remain a key element of the policy. I think it's very important to keep it up. Let's not tell each other that one thing is better than the other. There are all kinds of harmful means. This applies to alcohol, smoking, and cannabis and drugs. Let's not say it's all riskless. There are risks. We're gonna have to keep following that with each other. And we will have to base our prevention and discouragement policies on continuous monitoring. We must constantly look at the development, including in the Netherlands. It has been asked whether I think that the UNGASS conference called for more attention to public health and how I see this bill in that line. In any case, I see that this legislative proposal also seeks to make the public health aspect more important in drug policy. That is in line with the principle that we apply in Dutch policy, namely: hard on the side of crime, soft on the side of the user. In order to help people with drug problems optimally, we will have to decriminalise their own use so that everyone has access to prevention and care at all times. I assume that is at least the ultimate objective of this bill. Mrs Volp said that a change in the system should go hand in hand with a more preventive approach. I have already said in my speech that I very much agree with that. The same applies to the answer to the questions put by Mr Koolmees and Mr Van Nispen. As far as I am concerned, the programmes aimed at prevention are being continued and, if possible, strengthened. I refer to the ban on advertising, age limits, limiting the quantity you are allowed to buy, opening hours and restriction of use. The questions about international figures on usage, and about Colorado have already been addressed a bit. The same applies to questions about figures relating to the risk of social and social damage and psychological problems. I say again that cannabis is not an innocent drug. In young adults who are treated for an addiction problem cannabis is often a starting drug. I repeat once again that in the first half of 2017 the Trimbos Institute will carry out an exploration of cannabis use by vulnerable young people, such as young people in residential youth care and in judicial facilities. Who is responsible for the monitoring of cultivation, the quality of growers and what should happen if there is over-production? I would like to stress once again that this proposal for a legislative proposal does not cover this. In this respect, there is much to be expected from this General Measure of Governance. It would be good to at least say to each other that there is still a lot of work to be done in this General Measure of Governance. It will therefore take time for the further development of enforcement. It is also necessary to consider the rate at which this can lead to a tolerated cultivation. This has to be an extensive subject of study, and there must be sufficient time to bring it to a successful conclusion. I have another comment to make on an amendment by Mrs Van Tongeren. I think the applicant was right to say that the law is not about the production of medicinal cannabis. I would, however, like to make a comment on the amendment. I believe that, in general terms, we should be cautious about creating the possibility of growing medicinal cannabis in a home situation. Medical cannabis is now available on doctor's prescription at the pharmacy. It's standardized. This means that all aspects of quality are taken into account. In my opinion, it is quite essential for patients that medicinal cannabis has the same composition over and over again. In this way, the patient can be assured that there is a constant quality and a constant amount to be used. If I read the amendment in such a way that it offers a little more freedom, that aspect would fall into medical cannabis. In general, I would like to comment on this, because we have started medical cannabis once to ensure that it has a fixed quality because of a regulated cultivation in which you look at what is happening. That could be undermined by this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u276	Thank you for your answers. I'll continue with the second term immediately, with your permission. Mr Van Nispen has been ready for some time. Well, we know he also likes standing meetings, so that might have been a combination. Just before midnight, we begin the second term of the bill. You have a third of the speaking time, Mr van Nispen, and that is five minutes, but it may be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll speak less. Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the very expert support of the initiator Bergkamp. I would also like to thank Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, who is present in the Chamber today. I'm really excited to see that. She was the original initiator of this bill. And, of course, I would like to thank Mrs Bergkamp herself, the initiator. It has already been said that it is a good time to stand here. Now she's been standing here for quite a while. So she enjoyed this beautiful moment for quite some time. My sincere compliments on the precise way in which the very critical questions have been answered. I didn't interrupt much myself. I've asked a lot of questions in the first term. Most of them have been answered to my satisfaction. I will return to one question. It is no longer the case; we agree on this in very broad terms. Something has to be done. The regulation of cultivation does indeed have advantages. We serve public health because we can set quality standards and monitor them. And we are indeed going to facilitate criminals less. The fact that municipalities are really waiting for this is demonstrated by the fact that almost 90% of the municipalities have embraced this, at least the principle of a national system of certified and regulated hemp cultivation. That's good. I am left with the question: is this the ideal that we are dealing with? Or is it a step in the right direction? We have talked about regulated tolerance. There has been no choice for regulated legalisation, but there are also scientists, I would like to remind you of Van Kempens International law and cannabis II, which say that regulated legalization would be allowed under conditions. That's not the same as being regulated. Can the initiator once again address the question of what, in her view and in that much discussed report, is permitted under international law? And what is the final, desirable final situation? Is this it or should we, in the long term, have to go to legalization because it is a more elegant solution from a legal point of view? I come to the international aspect. Those treaties should actually be adapted because they are somewhat dated; that is what the initiator and I agree on. There have been developments. There's a difference of opinion now than before. I would like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to recent research, several human rights conventions give rise to positive obligations to legalise cannabis and that these human rights conventions take precedence over the prohibitions of the anti-drug conventions;]] [[Considering that, despite the fact that the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the United Nations Convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances state that drugs should be punishable, several countries have taken steps towards legalisation of cannabis and so far do not face any international legal problems;]] [[considers that the international legal order should be in line with the changing reality and that it would also be good if the ambiguity about the interpretation of the international conventions could be removed;]] [[calls on the Government to open and inform the Court of Justice of the discussion on the adaptation of the two abovementioned anti-drug conventions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Van Tongeren and Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u278	It is not a risk-free product, several spokesmen and also the directors have said. We have talked a lot about prevention, discouragement and information, and rightly so. That is extremely important. We are therefore going to ask more questions from the government, the municipalities and the coffee shop entrepreneurs in this area. To underline this, I shall table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not intended to encourage the use of more soft drugs but rather to promote public health;]] [[believes that any step towards the legalisation of soft drugs should be accompanied by further efforts in prevention and information;]] [[calls on the Government, prior to the entry into force of this bill, to explain how the necessary support will be provided to municipalities in order to increase their efforts to prevent and inform, and to explain the financial resources that will be used to this end, now that this bill will also entail cost savings;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that annual monitoring of the development of prevention and discouragement policies is carried out and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Volp, Van Tongeren and Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u279	Finally, I must say something about the attitude of the VVD. I understand that the CDA and the Christian Union are against this. But the VVD hasn't done anything about this for years. She first went after Minister Opstelten, who was tough: we're all gonna do it very hard. Afterwards, the VVD went after Minister Van der Steur, who, as MP, said he knew people who had died from the use of weed. We are now discussing a law that puts an end to this impossible situation or at least makes good proposals to reduce the problems. We know the government didn't do anything, and so the initiator had to, and we know that the VVD Congress said: we need to legalize smarter. But what does the VVD do? She looks for a lot of bears on the road, she raises a lot of questions and she identifies a lot of risks. That is her right, but she herself is not making any constructive proposals to address the concerns expressed by the VVD Group. If the VVD had done so, it might have had a reason to support this proposal. But apparently it was too hard for the VVD to follow Congress, which said: you need to regulate smarter. Unfortunately, that progressive insight is far from being sought by the VVD group. I find that extremely regrettable. But maybe the VVD's gonna surprise us tonight. It's now February 15th, so we're all going to see it today. Let me hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u280	A whole new day has come. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u281	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author, the minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. GroenLinks wants a pragmatic and workable approach in soft drugs policy, with health arguments in particular taking precedence over purely moral arguments. I just recalled the harmfulness of cannabis. I did the same in the first term. But let's compare it to alcohol and tobacco. I was just quoting Jellinek's numbers. They speak for themselves. 4,000 people die every year in the Netherlands as a direct result of alcohol. I don't have the numbers due to smoking in front of me right now, but there is no mortality that is directly due to hash or weed. Let us look at the situation in the United States. In California, 39 million people have access to regulated, legal cannabis. There are 7 million people in Massachusetts, 3 million in Nevada and 1 million in Maine. There is absolutely no increase in the use of hard drugs. A lot of people there use cannabis for medicinal purposes and experience benefits for their health. The Secretary of State has said that this is partly the case here. But I hear from the field that not the whole width, all the different products, is available. They are also not available everywhere. Some people with Parkinson's disease or people who have had heavy chemo benefit from tea, while others benefit from oil. There are several ingredients that are not available in the Netherlands. The author supported the amendment tabled by GroenLinks, for which I would like to thank him. But it's certainly important to give that group access. GroenLinks finds the arguments from the category "it doesn't feel right" and "I don't feel at home with them" unconvincing. The same applies to the arguments of the stepping stone. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State uses these arguments, because that theory has never been proven in this area, but also in other areas. There is no supporting evidence for that. That's also a sentimental argument. Yes, we think prevention policy is very important. That is why we are under the motion. But drug use is a reality that requires pragmatic management. I'm filing two brief motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) calls for experiments, within the established frameworks, with different regulatory solutions in order to eventually achieve a legally firmly anchored national cannabis policy;]] [[calls on the government, together with the VNG and a number of municipalities, to experiment with, for example, coffeeshops according to the Haarlem model, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u282	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of having the quality of drugs tested at events was abolished in 2002;]] [[Whereas this increases the risk of the use of dangerous drugs, such as contaminated or extremely heavy ecstasy pills;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for drug testing at events where drug use is foreseeable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u283	I would also like to address the liberal part of the Chamber. In a lot of debates that I may have with the VVD in other areas, it's always about choosing for myself, letting people themselves assess their risks. Driving 130 km/h on our roads is evidently leading to more deaths. It's tolerated. Here it is said that we absolutely do not want this. A lot of questions are being raised. But our own institutes in the Netherlands say that it does not cause demonstrable deaths. You'd think: think along to come up with a decent, pragmatic approach. The VVD outside The Hague is often for that. Be a man and do so here in the Chamber, for all Dutch people who are now suffering from organised crime or illegal street trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u284	Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary career has highs and lows. Let me be very clear: this is a low point for me. It is an absolute low point that we are once again a step further in the process of dealing with this bill today and that it may even be adopted. In substance, the legislative proposal means that there is ultimately some standardisation of drug use. It is even worse: the Minister, the Secretary of State, will be given a role in ensuring that there is enough drugs available. It really shouldn't get weirder. The initiator wants us to believe that this can also be an answer to organised crime. At least that's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. We have had to read today that there is no such thing. That's just the content. Sometimes we disagree very much in this house. That's the way it is. I'm very sorry about the way it's prepared. In fact, I find it very sad to finally get the advice of the Public Prosecutor today. You could have done that a long time ago. The initiator didn't need it. I have already indicated in my first term that this is never a criterion. You want to make a decent law with each other. That's why I don't think this legal process has been decent. But it's no different. If the House of Representatives adopts this, it will be a reality. Then all we have to do is hope that the First Chamber will think differently. Let me bring in one more thing. I found it fascinating to see how this law has been dealt with outside this Chamber. I have already pointed it out in an interruption: in fact, this gave us a little insight into the drug circuit, in the way it stirred up during the legal process. Let me say that it has merely strengthened me in my fight against this law. I can almost say the sewers opened. It's as simple as that. It shows that this is a dangerous and wrong path that we should never go on. But unfortunately, perhaps the House of Representatives will pass this law. I really hope this doesn't happen in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u285	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for a pastoral lock, so after midnight. I would like to thank the author, Mr Bergkamp, and her team for their reply. We continue to disagree. It is good to see former colleague Berndsen too, all the way back in the room. I'm a little less happy with her brainchild, but glad to see her again. I'm gonna cut to the chase. I have very mixed feelings about this, like Mr Van Toorenburg. I have mixed feelings about the content of the text... I am against the law; that may be clear.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact that you're not organizing your own argument by the D.A. and the police, who have to run it, for advice, is disappointing to me. I just don't think that's possible. It is worrying that the letter that finally allowed the public prosecutor to arrive at the eleventh hour is so critical and that this critical reflection is thus put aside. I repeat a few more qualifications. The prosecution has doubts as to whether the proposal will be effective and sufficiently effective. The D.A. calls the conclusion that international law has been complied with, rather less so. In other words, the prosecution reiterates the concern of the Council of State that it is contrary to international treaties. According to the D.A., the prosecution is excluded and any policy of prosecution based on the principle of opportunity is made impossible. Legal certainty and equality of law could be compromised by this law, according to the Public Prosecutor. And the D.A. has a lot of questions about enforcement. In this form, the bill is not a good idea, according to the prosecution. The position of the D.A. is also unnecessarily weakened. That is a very serious criticism. The initiator says that she finds it annoying that she had not yet heard that criticism, but she should have just asked for it. The Minister also noted that if you are preparing a bill, you must ask for your own advice. That should have just happened. The long-term impact of the bill on public health is unclear. I have my concerns about that. I heard the Secretary of State who said we're gonna keep the finger on the wrist and we're gonna keep monitoring it. In my view, if this law is to be passed, it is of the utmost importance to consider the impact of this law on young people and on addiction. He also expressed concern that the law normalizes drug use. I myself have that concern at least to that degree. I find that problematic. I repeat that police and prosecutors say that banning crime will not work with this law. In short, there are great concerns. I have expressed my concerns in the context of a fight against drugs, in which addiction and use of these drugs should be phased out slowly but surely and should not be standardised. In the context of that ban, I have a final motion, which deals with the use of hemp and hashish on the street. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of hemp and hashish on the streets or in and around public buildings may disturb public order, affect the living and living environment and cause nuisance;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of a smoking ban on public roads and around buildings accessible to the public, and to inform the Board for Budget Treatment in autumn 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u286	I saw the message on NU.nl this afternoon. To tell you the truth, I had to laugh a little. I do not know whether Mr Segers is on the streets in Amsterdam or Rotterdam. You smell weed all the time. Is Mr Segers' concrete proposal to send police officers after people who smoke to pick them up and fine them? Is that really a sensible use of capacity, when we have just had a wide-ranging debate on combating illegal cultivation and exports and that sort of thing? So you're gonna bet police capacity on these kinds of points? Is that a serious proposal from the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u287	It is so serious that the mayor of Utrecht would like this and has asked for an investigation into the possibility of a smoking ban. There are municipalities that have tried to write it in the APV, which is debatable. That's why I want to investigate this nationwide. Yeah, it's a nuisance. Yeah, it's a bad influence, or at least it affects your physical health. Yes, we need to keep public space open for anyone who wants to use it. You don't have to go through a can of weed and run a road if you want to shop or just go ahead. We need to keep public space open. If the law is broken and if the law is not enforced, the police must intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u288	Cannabis is in 12th place on the list. Tobacco is in place three of addictive drugs and bad things for public health. In terms of priorities, tobacco is much worse than cannabis. Is the Christian Union's proposal to apply the same regime to smoking? Should a cop go after people who smoke a cigarette on the street? You want him to pick it up or fine it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u289	I've told you a few times in this whole legal process what the direction is. The direction has been narrowed further and further. That applies to tobacco. That goes for alcohol. That goes for soft drugs. So that goes for all three. Each time we will look for ways of limiting use and applying restrictions, so that the thresholds for addiction and use are higher rather than lower. That goes for all three. If there are opportunities to limit the number of outlets, advertisements and advertisements for tobacco and alcohol too, then we will not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u290	Does the Christian Union propose a specific ban on smoking on the streets? Is that the specific proposal that is now on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u291	I hope you take me seriously and listen to what I'm saying. With all three of these resources, I will always look for ways to limit the use further and to raise the threshold to it and not to lower it. If you come up with a creative proposal for further reducing alcohol, for example, which causes enormous damage, that is very welcome. At the time, we were the initiators of raising the alcohol age from 16 to 18. D66 was one of the last political groups to join. At that time, the D66 Congress said that we are in favour of this. No, that was the PvdA Congress, but D66 has joined. That was a good step. If we could take new steps in the same direction, that would be welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u292	Has Mr Segers asked the police and the Public Prosecutor for advice in the conclusion of his smoking ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u293	If you have listened carefully to my motion, you have heard that I am asking for an investigation. That would be very beneficial. I think we can pass that request on to the Minister. In that investigation, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police must be asked for advice in good time, from the very beginning and not just a week or a day in advance. That must be sent to the Chamber in good time so that we can all take note of it and weigh all the pros and cons. Then we can come to a good decision. The opinion of the Public Prosecutor should not be added at the very last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u294	I don't really understand any of this. We're discussing a bill that extends the tolerance policy further. That's actually a small step. What Mr Segers is proposing is rather radical. It's a big deal that you want to go out on the street and punish or prosecute people. The state's attorney's office and the police are working on it. This is potentially far more far-reaching than what the initiator proposes. In view of Mr Segers' criticism of the initiator, Mrs Bergkamp, it would be on the way to assess the impact of his proposal in advance. Of course, we can always ask for research. Of course, we can always ask a response from police and prosecutors in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u295	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u296	Surely Mr Segers cannot deny that his proposal is potentially far more far-reaching and will cost much more capacity? Then we have to have some insight into what we're actually asking and going to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u297	My wish is far-reaching. The difference between the initiativer's proposal and my wish is that I first want a thorough investigation in which the prosecutor and the police can speak in advance. I'm asking for an investigation, in which everything is taken into account. So I also want to take all the sounds, the pros and cons, to me. I will take these steps and then we will be able to take decisions. My wish is clear. I would like to move on, but first of all I would like to have a good study in which the pros and cons are on the table and I would also like to have myself contradicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u298	Is this really urgent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u299	Actually, I just have a question. Does Mr Segers not think this is special? If a mayor wants something that a number of parties in the Chamber don't want, then that's something you have to put aside completely. But if it's something else, all of a sudden we have to embrace it all. Isn't that a little double measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u300	I can indeed answer this in the affirmative. It's special. A mayor of a big city says, "I'd like to do this." Is it really too much to ask to investigate? That's all we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u301	You filed it in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u302	Then you can always say: we have read the research, so perhaps not or perhaps not. We'll see about that. An investigation; you shouldn't be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u303	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator of this law warmly for the clear, structured, block-by-block response this evening. I would also like to thank my former colleague Magda Berndsen for the original initiative. I would also like to thank all the people who sit here and have provided support to the advisers in the drafting of this law. The result may be there, because a good solution has been found to a legally complex problem. This law solves the paradoxical policy for coffeeshops. I am also pleased that the initiator has listened carefully to the input of the Chamber and that she has answered all the questions well. The best example of this was that two weeks ago Mrs Van Toorenburg said, on the basis of a source, 'cannabis is a murderer' and that the initiator took the trouble to find out. She found out that this source is also for regulation. That makes it clear again on such a night. I also hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg will vote mildly. She's gonna need it. It was also about the comparison with tobacco and alcohol. Those are two very harmful products. In this context, I would like to point out that we have several shops for these products: tobacco shops, breweries, liquor stores, distilleries and wine dealers. And they all have the predicate court supplier, such as Hajenius in Amsterdam, Heineken, the Alpha Brewery and Henkes Genever. I have a list here, and I can keep going. But rest assured: there remains a big difference between tobacco, alcohol and soft drugs. Because before you can become a court supplier, there's a minimum of a hundred years in between. So it's gonna be a while. Now I'm going back to the law. As I explained in the first term, this law serves four objectives: public health, public order and security, legal certainty for coffee shop owners and financial returns. That is why D66 is in favour of this law. It is a good law that brings improvement and solves a number of problems. You will not be surprised that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this law. I am particularly curious to see what the VVD will do when it comes to voting. After all, the VVD is in favour of smarter regulation. The question is whether the VVD is going to vote in favour now. Or is the VVD not going to be running for two months, because we know that from the VVD. Before the elections, the VVD says things like "hands off the mortgage interest deduction" and "no money to the Greeks," but after the elections it does so secretly. I hope that happens here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u304	Mr. Chairman. Even after midnight, a few more stitches are handed out here. It had some feet in the earth, again today, but it is now almost time for an important step to be taken to get out of the impasse of the current cannabis policy. Thank you once again to all in trade union K and in the chair for their preparatory work and their thorough response. I'm just gonna put it this way. Mrs Bergkamp has indeed done well. The PvdA is in favour of this law. We do not have the illusion that the criminal chain, organised crime, will no longer be involved in pot growing because of this initiative law. That would really require a different approach. But I think that this initiative law is a very clear deadline. I think this is necessary and good. The PvdA sees added value for patients who benefit from medical cannabis within the initiative law. I have heard the response of the Secretary of State to Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment and I would like to ask the government, by means of a motion, to use this initiative proposal as a basis for examining which variants of patients may benefit even more. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas cannabis may be effective for patients to control symptoms of their disease, including pain;]] [[Whereas the medicinal cannabis produced by Bedrocan on behalf of the government consists of a limited number of products;]] [[whereas patients indicate that they benefit from cannabis products that are not currently produced by Bedrocan;]] [[Whereas cultivation of medicinal cannabis outside of Bedrocan is currently not permitted;]] [[Considers that the tolerance of pot growing also offers opportunities for the cultivation of multiple variants of medicinal cannabis;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out research into variants of medicinal cannabis, in addition to the Bedrocan products, in which patients can benefit even more;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with patients' and growers' representatives to develop a more varied range of tolerated medical cannabis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u305	The PvdA is concerned about the transitional regime. I would like to see a slightly clearer phasing-out of the transition to tolerated cultivation in an AMvB. I have a rather extensive motion for this, for which I take ample time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft legislation on coffeeshops provides for a transitional arrangement whereby coffeeshops are allowed to buy from unsatisfied growers as long as the offer of tolerated growers is not sufficient;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport is responsible for ensuring that decisions are sufficiently tolerated to ensure that coffee shops are fully covered by pot and hashish;]] [[considers that it is undesirable to maintain a non-accepted offer in addition to a tolerated offer;]] [[Considers that the legislative proposal does not provide sufficient incentives for coffee shop owners to switch to just the purchase of tolerated pot and hashish as soon as possible;]] [[Considers that the General Measure of Management should include a phasing-in of annual ascending percentages which should comprise the supply of tolerated pot and hashish in relation to total demand;]] [[Considers that at the end of this phasing there should be a full supply of tolerated pot and hashish;]] [[considers that such phasing should be as short as reasonably possible;]] [[calls on the Government to include the above-mentioned phasing-in at the latest when this legislative proposal enters into force;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber annually of the progress of such phase-out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34165-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u306	I am left with the initiator once again to guarantee my party's support. If the proposal is adopted by a majority of this Chamber, I wish it every success on behalf of the PvdA in the Chamber on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u307	Mr. Chairman. I would like to tell you that I secretly enjoyed tonight's discussion and two weeks ago. I have seen a Member of Parliament standing before me who gave answers with enormous passion and a certain ferocity, which grew in the course of the evening. A barrage of questions was fired at her, by myself and by several other MPs. You could see that she had read in and that she really believes in the message she's trying to deliver. She did that in very firmly defined cubes. So much for the compliments. It can hardly be a surprise, because I have already indicated it in my first term, but my party is very concerned about the content. I've identified a lot of risks in this bill that haven't been taken away. In fact, if I read in the letter we were able to see tonight, that the position of the Public Prosecutor is weakened, while exports continue and the street trade and house fires do not decrease significantly, then I cannot advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u308	We had a discussion with Mr Van Oosten two weeks ago. That was about the house fires and the street trade, all of which are already problems, all of which Mr Van Oosten could instruct his minister to do and do something about them. However, I have not seen an amendment or a motion from Mr Van Oosten to do something about it. He's been looking for reasons not to have to support this bill. That's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u309	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u310	Where are your motions and amendments, Mr van Oosten? Where are your proposals to tackle the street trade, to fight the house fires, to invest in police capacity and so on? Where are the VVD proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u311	Mr Van Nispen asks me the same questions he asked me in the first term. My answer to that was that I, as a Member of Parliament, am expected to assess this bill. I did. I did that in a critical way. I don't think anyone can deny me that right. I've asked a lot of questions. I have considerable concerns. I see these concerns confirmed in the proposal of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In that respect, I cannot understand smarter regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u312	A representative of the people does his job not only by saying what is wrong with the proposal but also by making proposals himself. That should be done by a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u313	I am going to give the floor to the applicant, who rejoices with a direct answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u314	Mr. Chairman. I promised you I'd finish before dawn, and that's gonna work! There are still a few questions left. Firstly, Mr Van Oosten's question on THC levels abroad. The Trimbos Institute has done research and has only looked at one other source of data. The relevant information was given by the University of Mississippi. It indicated that the THC content of the marijuana in the United States in 2014 was about 12%. Then there has also been a European study showing that the average THC content is about 18% and that the average THC content in the Netherlands is about 17.8%. So it does vary. In recent years it has risen, but now it is stabilizing again. The Trimbos Institute also concludes that cannabis with a high THC content is now available worldwide. However, this does not mean that it is not very high in the Netherlands and it does not mean that it is not rising and has increased in other countries either. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked another question about Belgium. It is true that Belgium is more restrictive in terms of cannabis policy. The possession and use are punishable. However, Belgium also has a sort of tolerance policy. The holding under 3 grams has a reduced priority of persecution in Belgium. In 2014 there was a Belgian coalition agreement that gave a more restrictive sound. Then there were a lot of concerns in the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. They did not really like the zero tolerance policy, because they were also afraid of the lack of capacity. Mr Van Nispen also asked about regulated legalisation and regulatory acceptance in the Van Kempen report 2. It is true that Van Kempen indicates that regulated legalization would be a preferred scenario, but if you read his study correctly, he actually says that it is about regulating it, that it is about setting detailed quality standards and that you have opportunities for prevention and discouragement. Then you can draw the conclusion whether this is the case with tolerance or legalisation, but it is ultimately a question of strict requirements on the quality of cultivation. That's actually his call. Mr Van Nispen asked how I see the final scenario. If the zero measurement and the various evaluations after the transitional situation show us that we are going to follow them well; I would like to thank Mrs Volp, who wants us to be even more on top of it, that we can demonstrate this well with each other, I can imagine that the step towards legalisation would be a very good one. As far as I am concerned, that step is still very far away, but we can already demonstrate a great deal by means of the intermediate step of regulation; then that step is less far, as far as I am concerned. Those were the answers to the questions. I think there have been comments in particular. I don't think it's right to repeat myself, so I'll start with my final word. First of all, I once again thank Magda Berndsen. I really liked and trusted to see her sitting like this from my left eye corner. I am very curious to know what she thought of the debate, so we are going to evaluate it carefully afterwards. I also thank the team behind me. Without that team, I really couldn't stand here and we wouldn't have had a good bill. I would once again like to thank the Bureau of Legislation. It's unbelievable how well that's done. If there was another amendment, the agency would let me know. I was very happy about that. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this proposal. Let us not forget: the policy of tolerance is 40 years old. That's 40 years of study, research and opinions. Mrs Berndsen spoke with a great many people, bodies and organisations in order to produce this proposal. I then did the same thing. I think that was also the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that the proposal was ripe to be dealt with here. That is what happened here today. I look forward to the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u315	The motions are addressed to the government. I will thank you later, but I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice for his part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u316	Mr. Chairman. The division of labour between the Secretary of State and myself is that the motions addressed to the Secretary of State are dealt with by the Secretary of State and the motions addressed to me by me. That's what I'm gonna start with. In the motion by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Koolmees, to item No. 16, the Government is invited to "open the debate on the adaptation of the two abovementioned anti-drug treaties to the above-mentioned sense." This motion begins with the observation that according to recent research several human rights conventions result in positive obligations to legalise cannabis. I indicated in my first term that the government does not believe that this positive obligation can be derived from those human rights conventions. I therefore do not share the operative part of the motion and advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u317	The motion in part No. 16 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u318	In her motion in part No. 18 Ms Van Tongeren asked the government, together with the VNG and a number of municipalities, to experiment with, for example, coffee shops according to the Haarlem model and to inform the Chamber about this. In doing so, it refers to the advice of the VNG to experiment with different regulatory solutions within the established frameworks. Now the word "regulatory solutions" may be grammatically correct, but in practice it means that you will have to do something with rules, with legislation. So I do not see any real implementation of this motion within the existing legislation. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u319	The motion in part No. 18 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u320	In the Segers/Van Toorenburg motion in part No. 20 the government is invited to investigate the introduction of a ban on smoking on public roads and around buildings accessible to the public and to inform the Chamber thereof. A municipality that would like to do so can take measures under the general police regulation. In the local triangle, that municipality will undoubtedly consult with the police about its feasibility, but that does not require further investigation. So I must also advise against this motion. The last motion I shall take up is the Volp/Van Nispen motion on part No. 22. Mrs Volp herself has already indicated that this motion is rather complex. This motion shall include the request to include the said phasing-in at the latest when this legislative proposal enters into force at the latest. This involves, inter alia, a phaser which should include annual rising rates of supply of the tolerated pot and hashish in relation to total demand. This is, briefly, a planned economy for weed. Then you should follow the national supply and national demand from The Hague. I'm afraid you can't do that. I must therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u321	I hear quite a lot of discouragement, but this is essentially what this initiative law is about, namely the transition to a totally tolerated cultivation? So in what way? This is a planned economy, because it requires a transition. I would like the cabinet to consider how the phase-out of that transition can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u322	I have indicated that I appreciate Mrs Bergkamp's and everyone else's commitment to solving a difficult social issue. I have also indicated that the way in which this is done in this law raises a large number of questions. The role given to the government in the supply of weed was one of the subjects of which I expressly stated in the first term that it was very complex. A comparison was made, among other things, with tobacco and alcohol, including unhealthy products, which are delivered. No one has ever asked the government to identify the demand for this and staged to deliver the production. That's what they're asking for here. Isn't it hard for me to say that this is an easy task to carry out? This is also not in line with what I indicated in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u323	I didn't say anything about easy either. I have tabled not so much a complex motion as a long one, but this legislative proposal has a further effect on how we can move to 100% tolerated cultivation. To this end, this bill grants permits by the Minister of Health. Then it seems to me that this includes thinking about the period you want to go to 100%. That's not such a crazy question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u324	Mrs Volp asks the question to the government, because this part is missing from the law. I have also pointed this out in the first term, not because I do not take the intention of the initiator seriously. I take it very seriously. However, I am giving an opinion on the feasibility and consequences in a number of areas. If I find it difficult to implement, I think that even if this should be recorded in an AMvB. Then I can't come to another conclusion, can I? I am therefore afraid that I must also discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u325	That had become us by now. I am now going to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u326	Mr. Chairman. In fact, the second motion consists of two parts. One is the request for an annual monitoring of the development of prevention and discouragement policies and for information to the Chamber. I have already indicated in my contribution that this is also the intention of the government. I want to do that, too. I do object to another passage in the motion, namely that it shows how the municipalities will be supported now that this bill will also bring cost savings. I think that is premature because, as Mr Blok has already explained, we do not yet have an idea of this point. So I do not want to support the motion in this form, given my commitment to prevention and discouragement policy. If that passage were to read differently or disappear from it, I could reach a different judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u327	The other part of the operative part that I do not hear the Secretary of State grumbling about, if I may say so disrespectfully, is about explaining, before the entry into force of this bill, how the necessary support will be provided to municipalities to make greater use of prevention and information. That was the point. We want more of the government, more of the coffee shop entrepreneurs and more of the municipalities in terms of prevention, information and discouragement. Suppose we let go of that link, so the assumption that this bill will save money. I think there will be that saving, but is the pain gone if we take that assumption out of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u328	If Mr Van Nispen puts an end to 'information', I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u329	I think I'm gonna do this, Mr. Chairman. I'll file an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u330	We're facing the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u331	I have another question about the second sentence or the second paragraph, if you will. The Secretary of State now says it's "judge chamber." However, the second paragraph also states "any step towards the legalisation of soft drugs." Surely I can't assume that the Secretary of State as a member of the cabinet says that this is a direction that can be taken? Shouldn't the word legalization alone cause the Secretary of State to discourage this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u332	Let me make it quite clear that I am not in favour of steps towards legalization. Here, however, the Chamber is considering something and asking the government something. I have responded to what is being asked of the government. It is a good thing that Mr Van Oosten is reminding us of his opinion on this point. In the motion in part No. 19 The government is asked to provide drug testing at events where drug use is foreseeable. It is technically not possible to test the strength of xtc pills at events. As is well known, laboratory tests are sometimes needed to determine the strength. If you want to test very quickly, you can only check if it's a known pill. This motion would therefore create false security. This is still separate from the fact that there is a check at the front door for possession of ecstasy pills. If it all goes well, then pills are not allowed. For that reason, I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 21 the government is invited to consult with patients' and growers' representatives in order to find a more varied offer. I do think it is right to establish that the production of medicinal cannabis is separate from the tolerance of cultivation, that Bedrocan produces on behalf of VWS for medical purposes, and that we are talking about whether there can be a multiple supply. I therefore consider this motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u333	"Judge Chamber" on this last motion. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the speedy response and the explanation of the motions. We came to the end of the debate earlier than the President himself expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-40.u334	I would, of course, like to thank the initiator for the detailed answer to all the questions put by the Chamber. That was not very easy, even in view of the strong criticism of her proposal. You can do that in this house. I believe that we have dealt with the legislative proposal thoroughly and thoroughly. I would also, of course, like to thank the advisers, the Minister and the Secretary of State for their contribution, as well as the fact that they have stayed here until this hour. The Secretary of State calls "and the officials!', But I'll get to that. Of course, I would also like to thank the counsellors in Vak-K for their contribution. These are the aforementioned Mrs van der Zee, Mr Hofland, Mr Smeets and Mr Vis. I would also like to thank them for the rest they have kept all evening. I know what it means when you're so involved in a proposal. I would also like to thank Mrs Berndsen for being here. It is a pleasure to see you again; you belong here a little bit, I would say. I also thank the people who have stayed for their patience, as well as the people who have watched. I wish you all a very good night. The legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions will be voted on next Tuesday. Have a good night and get back on your feet!
