ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34506, the proposal for a law of Mr Kuiken introducing a duty of care to prevent the supply of goods and services produced by child labour, i.e. the Child Labour Care Duty Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an honor and pleasure to be in your house today to defend on behalf of the Labour Party my colleague Mr Van Laar's original proposal. We don't think about it every day, but the football we give to our child, the duvet we slept under this morning, perhaps the sandwich I put on for my daughter today and the phone we all have: chances are that it was made by children's hands. Friend and foe, even in this house, agree that we don't want that anymore. In the Netherlands, we said goodbye to child labour 100 years ago. The Netherlands has also committed itself to the United Nations' goal of being child labour free by 2025. Although this ambition may be somewhat ambitious, our legislative proposal wants to make a small contribution to this by ensuring that companies make efforts to prevent products and services they sell in the Netherlands from being made by children's hands. It raises the ground, gives benevolent companies a more level playing field and ensures that other companies cannot remain on their dirty hands. Of course, our legislative proposal raises many questions, which the members of your house have also raised. I want to thank them for all these questions. I am going to do my best to provide them with an adequate response here. Many of the questions had a certain degree of overlap. That is why I chose to do the answer in blocks. Where necessary, I will address a number of specific questions. If I have forgotten a few things, draw my attention to them, because I am happy to complete my speech at the end. I would like to begin with the background, the history and the objective of this bill. Secondly, I refer to the covenants, which have been asked a lot of questions about them. Then I will deal with the question of how companies are supposed to comply with the duty of care imposed by this bill. I will also deal with the scope. As a fourth point, I will address the questions of supervision and enforcement. Finally, I will deal with the general measures of governance. A number of separate questions have been asked about the accompanying policies, the finances. That's the block of varia. Mr. Chairman. First I go into the background and the objective of the bill. It was remembered in your Chamber: there are more than 150 million child labourers worldwide. Products and services they make also end up with Dutch consumers, while they are not waiting for them to do so. That's why we made this law. The aim of the legislative proposal is to ensure that consumers can assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies which, within their capacity to prevent their goods and services from being produced using child labour. This bill has a long history. This applies to the scandals we have had about child labour and the call for legislation that has been there for a long time, but also for the legislative proposal itself. It's been four years. We designed the bill and then had to ping-pong with a lot of different people. The legislative proposal is in line with the OECD guidelines and is in line with legislative proposals made in other European countries. There was a great involvement of a wide variety of people. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst already asked who was involved in this. Well, that's been a real shame. Those were the ministries, but also the state's attorney's office. There was a professor and dozens of companies. D66, the SGP and the Christian Union have tabled amendments and motions to make this bill as good as possible. NGOs, trade unions and companies who voted in favour of this bill and companies who were not so much in favour of the bill have all had the opportunity to think along. But individuals were also involved. Tens of thousands of people have signed off on helping to achieve a duty of care for the end of child labour. Mr. Chairman. It has rightly been asked why only child labour has been chosen and not a broader framework. Mr Overbeek asked for this in particular, but others also asked that question. There are a number of reasons for this. Firstly, child labour is not a sexy theme. It's not like sustainability is a theme that you can say: look how well I do as a company. 10% more durability is beautiful. 50% more durability is also beautiful. But 50% less child labour is not really something you can advertise with. It's something you have to do together with companies. Friend and enemy agree on the definition of child labour. It has been decided in the ILO guidelines. There's no discussion about it. So it's clearly definable. Child labour has also been chosen because companies have explicitly asked us to do so. They asked us to raise the bottom. They asked us to ensure a level playing field so that they can make this battle together in the Netherlands. Even competitors will eventually have to comply with the law. They also asked why the principle of consumer law was chosen and not the principle of child labour alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u4	I would like to ask the author a few more questions. My question was why this bill is limited to child labour. Why are forced labour and slavery not directly included, as happens in other countries? That question is prompted by the consideration that you need the same kind of information to get a look at it. This is not clear to me. That question hasn't been answered yet. I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u5	Thank you for this question. The reason we have now limited ourselves to child labour is because the definitions of child labour are clear. The other aspects of human rights are not so clearly defined. The support for achieving an effort obligation in the field of child labour was greatest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u6	Thank you for that answer. I'm not entirely convinced, but I'm waiting for the further answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u7	Why didn't we just opt for a ban on child labour instead of consumer protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u8	In the beginning, we had that ambition, too. In the beginning we talked about zero tolerance: no acceptance of child labour and child labour had to leave the world. But we've come to the conclusion in recent years that you're just not there with that. You must also give companies the obligation, duty of care or responsibility to contribute to the effective disappearance of child labour. By not expecting child labour to be eliminated all over the world, but to expect Dutch companies and companies doing business in the Netherlands to do everything in their power to eradicate child labour, we think we are most successful. What we are doing in the Netherlands is not necessarily going to help eradicate child labour in Côte d'Ivoire. We do offer the guarantee, at least as far as we can, that Dutch consumers do not buy products manufactured with child labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u9	There is nothing against consumer protection, because as a consumer you cannot know everything. You can't see everything that goes on down the chain. This also applies to all kinds of sustainability issues and to food quality issues. My question was why you completely exempt the consumer from any responsibility of your own. It is best to lay down the responsibility of the government and the companies, but I would also consider a piece of consumer responsibility to be sensible, even if only in terms of awareness. If you really think you can buy beautiful clothes at a very low price, then you should know that there might be something going on with it? With this wording, you will take that away altogether. You protect the consumer. Period. But perhaps we will have more impact if we make it a common responsibility, and we also dare to lay down a piece of it with the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u10	I think of it as en-and. This bill does indeed lay down the responsibility of companies. It asks them to do what they can in the chain, as far as their duty of care extends. But of course, the government also continues to provide information and campaigns to point out to people that not everything is what it seems. I don't think this is mutually exclusive. NGOs will also continue their campaigns, whether they are the Clean Clothes Campaign or other awareness campaigns. I am not saying with this bill that we should stop with the other one. I just want there to be a soil, which also forces companies that are not now of good will to take steps. That is what both large and small companies are asking us to support this bill. In addition to the questions put by Mrs Lokin. Is this the end of the story now? Do we limit ourselves to child labour and can it never be widened? Of course it could. There's an AMvB under there for a reason. If this proves successful after five years, you can expand to other branches of sport. But in view of the discussion we are already having in the Netherlands to come to this bill, the issue of child labour is already quite complicated. If you do it for other themes, it gets even more complicated. A second reason that we have chosen child labour is that we want to apply it in principle to the very entrepreneurial Netherlands. We do not opt for a number of very large companies alone, as happens in other countries. As a result, they have a broader approach, but a much narrower result. We want a broader result and therefore opt for a narrower approach. I hope this answers her question a little more, because I don't think I was completely complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u11	I was just thinking about that cryptic phrase. On the contrary, we are working very widely on the information agreements. It does not define exactly which line to follow, so that you can also be sectoral and engage NGOs. That's why I'm so worried about the narrow path that's being walked here. This may run counter to the very broad approach being developed on the basis of the OECD guidelines. In my contribution I asked whether this will not be disruptive because the focus will be shifted from the broad approach. It's okay to get impulses, but now it's starting very narrowly. This can lead to the dismantling of the broad approach of not just children and not just some entrepreneurs that have been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u12	I am going to go into the agreements and how I see them in the ongoing process. The short answer for now is that I am not afraid of that at all. I think it can reinforce each other. I'd like to go into that a little more in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u13	I just heard the initiator talk about the very entrepreneurial Netherlands, but this bill applies to all companies worldwide that market products or services on the Dutch market. Then it's not just about Dutch entrepreneurs, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u14	That's right. You have put that very well, also in response to questions that have been asked you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u15	But what did the initiator just mean by "very enterprising Netherlands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u16	I made a comparison. In France, they have legislation that applies only to very large companies, but which has a broader human rights framework. We have chosen not to grab a few hundred companies, but very enterprising Netherlands, 1.5 million companies in the Netherlands, to contribute to the goal of seeing child labour as little as possible in the products sold in the Netherlands. That is why I was talking about entrepreneurial Netherlands, but it also applies to companies that sell products in the Netherlands from abroad. That's correct. Mr. Chairman. There will be a desire to broaden it, but above all we have sought something that friend and enemy agree on, where there is no discussion about the definition, where the bottom should be raised. We'll start with child labour. It would be very nice if we could realize that today, and that could be the upshot to other branches of sport; I can see that. So one doesn't rule out the other either. A lot of questions have been asked about the covenants. How do these covenants relate to this bill? My group strongly supports the agreement approach. In fact, my group, among others, has taken steps in this direction. I think it can strengthen each other: companies that are now at the forefront of cooperation in these covenants and thus tackle child labour comply with the legislation we are proposing, so that you can kill two birds with one stone. We also see that an AMvB will have to be established later and that those who are already participating in a covenant will have a say in how the AMvBs should actually be recorded, so that does not have to bite each other. I am not afraid that companies will sit back, because they see a stick coming behind the door. That also forces them to take action. I therefore believe that this will be an additional step for many companies to join agreements. The advantage of participating in a covenant is that you can share knowledge and expertise there and that you can work together. That also gives added value, so I really don't see why it would bite one another. One of the questions that Mr Schaap asked me is whether it is sector-wide or per company. If you see that the bill is coming, if you don't want to do it in your uppie, if you join such an agreement approach, you can pull up and take advantage of the knowledge and information that is already available about the chain approach at home and abroad, so that can greatly strengthen each other. At the same time, of course, the question is whether we expect all companies to participate voluntarily in these agreements. If we did not have this bill, do we really think that all companies in the Netherlands would voluntarily join such a covenant? Given the pace of these agreements and the fact that a large number of players are already hanging back, we do not think it is a real starting point that all companies will participate. That is also the reason why the large and small companies that have already been mentioned from the largest food supplier, including from chocolate milk, to large companies, but also the small natural stone manufacturer............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So I think it can be very mutually reinforcing. I do not think it will all be voluntary, because the agreements do not apply to all sectors. Five agreements have been concluded and the objective was ten. Sometimes it takes place only in sub-sectors and not in the whole sector. By agreement, not all companies participate. That means that you really have to raise that soil so that for all companies, whether in common or by industry, there is at least the need or the stick behind the door to get behind the OECD directives on the left or right and to translate them into the legislative proposal. My predecessor Van Laar described it in an earlier debate a bit in cycling terms: this law is a broom truck. All the leading parties will not be burdened but benefit from this law and will be able to make use of it. I think this can be an added value. A number of questions have also been asked about the scope. What does this mean for Dutch and foreign companies? Mrs. Lokin asked for it, too. This legislation also applies to foreign companies that supply in the Netherlands, as well as to online companies. I will show you how this is going to take shape in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u17	Thank you for the clarification on the strengthening of legislation towards agreements, but I also have a question about the participation of companies in agreements. Should they be focusing on this legislation at all? I do not know if the initiator is going to go into that, but we have asked questions about it. If I understand correctly, you have actually fulfilled all the obligations set out in the initiative proposal, if you are already a member of these covenants. Would the initiator wish to explain this a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u18	If you participate in such a covenant and explain with everything that is in your ability to participate in the fight against child labour, you will comply with this bill. With this you have declared to meet the requirements that apply to combating child labour. This is not something that is detrimental to it, but rather an interpretation of that article, as requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u19	I have another clarifying question. Should companies who participate in the various import agreements also give or no longer need to give a statement? Then how do we interpret the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u20	I will look at what that statement looks like later. Let me put it this way: the moment you join a covenant, you have already stated that you are not participating in child labour, and so you will comply with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u21	Let me wait for the answer on the details of that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u22	Well, maybe that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The initiator says you'll be satisfied if you join a covenant. But suppose an NGO in the field finds that you do have child labour in your chain, you don't, so that's actually a paper tiger, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u24	Maybe it's useful that I give an example of a small entrepreneur in any street, and then see if your question has been answered. Is that a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u25	I appreciate the offer, but there's something wrong with it. It looks like people are saying you're done when you're in the covenant, but you're not done, because something can still be found in your chain. Anyway, I await your example. Let's make a deal like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u26	I hope that will make it clearer. I am using the example set by Mrs Stienen. We are in a shopping street and there is a company that does Christmas decorations: LED lights, Christmas lights, Christmas trees and everything you need. He's a pretty big shopkeeper, but not with his own import. How's the law gonna work for him? This can be done collectively, whereby you join an industry to arrange it that way. It's important that he does business with an importer. He then asked whether the importer could declare that he did not use child labour, because that is what he wanted. If the importer says: yes, I can, and I made that statement to the supervisor, then the little shopkeeper is basically done with that. Suppose that supplier doesn't give that statement, then you can say as a shopkeeper that you want him to be able to give such a statement to the supervisor, because otherwise you don't want to do business with him. Then the importer where you get the LED lights can say: I'm going to do that, because I'm not doing child labour and I'd like to deliver to that shopkeeper, so he's gonna make a statement to the supervisor. That is indeed a one-sided explanation. That means that the shopkeeper is basically ready, because he needs to be able to trust that what that importer places with the supervisor is correct. If the shopkeeper sees or hears in the chain, because he gets tips, that it's all wrong, then you have a different situation, but basically you can assume that someone is acting in good faith and that it's legitimate to take it away from that importer. So as a shopkeeper, you don't have to go to the supervisor yourself. You don't have to make a statement. How does it work for the importer? That importer must submit to our Dutch supervisor: I hereby declare not to do child labour. That's basically enough. Then I come to Mrs Faber's question as to whether that is enough. Yeah, that'll do if nothing turns up. Suppose an NGO in Vietnam, for example, says: it's all nice and nice that you told the supervisor not to do child labour, but we have evidence on video or because we've just seen it in another chain registration that you're doing child labour. In that case, the importer from Vietnam will receive a warning from the supervisor. That importer will then have six months to prove that he is not doing child labour or to come up with a plan to tackle child labour. So that's how you do the duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u27	I'll take a look. Mr. Lintmeijer was first, then Mr. Overbeek and then Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u28	I understood from your earlier words, Mrs Kuik, that participation in a covenant in itself would be sufficient as an explanation in terms of: I am in the covenant, so I will comply with the law. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u29	If you participate in the covenant, you will declare that you do not engage in child labour, otherwise the covenant will have no body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u30	Yesterday, the ESC came up with a number of reports on the textile agreement and it showed that there was a lot of confusion in the publicity about it and we heard from the ESC yesterday that although a significant part of the textile industry is involved, there are still a number of brands that still have no plan to deal with it. Would such a party then be able to hide behind the covenant, or would it still have to make its own statement: I have signed the covenant but I am not yet ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u31	You need to make a statement to the supervisor that you're not cooperating in child labour. You'll fall apart if you're then the textile producer who decreases in, for example, India and where it's proven that you're dealing with child labour. So it's not something you can do all the time. Paper is patient, but at some point there is chain registration and there are people in the field who, of course, see what actually happens in the way you take a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u32	If that is the case, I note that merely participating in a covenant is not enough and that it must also be supported on the basis of an approach plan that your statement is actually a statement within the meaning of the law, but that it is not merely participating in the covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u33	As far as I'm concerned, if you're in the covenant, you state that you're also in the supervisor's office that you don't participate in child labour, but you have to be able to prove that in the end. You don't have to do that at first instance, but if there's only one party that complains to you, you have to be able to prove that you're not participating in child labour. Then, of course, there is the question of what such a roadmap looks like and needs to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u34	I'll give Mr. Overbeek the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u35	Just to clarify a few points. As regards the relationship between participation in covenants and the requirements of this law, I have always interpreted it in such a way that a person who cooperates in such a covenant is physically fulfilling the same obligations because he works within that covenant and physically takes the same steps that are implicitly required in the law, but this does not mean that he has to deposit that one-line explanation by law. In this sense, merely participating in the covenant is not sufficient for the legal obligation, but that reduces the extra effort to comply with the law to simply deposit a one-line explanation. At least that's how I understood it. I would also like to thank Mrs Kuik for the example of Mrs Stienen's shopkeeper who deals in Christmas lights and who draws these Christmas lights from an importer. I suspect that in her example this is a Dutch company that imports lights from Vietnam if necessary. The Dutch importer then explains that there is no child labour in the production chain of those lights. Fine, I can still follow all that. The Dutch importer is then reasonably placed under the jurisdiction of the supervisor. But now, the Congolese gold exporter. What risk does my jeweller run if he takes his gold from that Congolese exporter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u36	Thanks for the question, but basically this works the same. So also for that Congolese importer, he must be able to deposit with the Dutch regulator that he complies with this legislation. What happens if there's a complaint that he doesn't? Then, in the same way, the supervisor will investigate that Congolese company and a fine can be imposed. If that Congolese company does not change its policy or does not pay the fine, it will be blacklisted in the register. Then our Dutch jeweller has a problem because he knowingly does business with someone who is on the blacklist and thus no longer meets the requirements of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u37	Mr. Overbeek, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u38	Well, then I'm sure I got it right. I am very sceptical about the Dutch regulator's actual ability to pull that Congolese manufacturer's jacket, but what I am not clear about is the following. Until that Congolese exporter is sentenced to a fine and perhaps in default to a criminal penalty, the Dutch importer is, I believe, free of that gold. Because what else is the function of making that statement? It seems clear to me that he will then have to look for another supplier after an irrevocable conviction by that foreign exporter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u39	That first piece is true. That Congolese jewelry supplier gets a warning: if there is no policy within six months, there will be a fine. If that Congolese supplier doesn't deliver, it'll end up on a blacklist. This is also something that has been explicitly changed in the House of Representatives. Are we absolutely sure that the fines will be collected? No, we don't know that, but we do know that this Congolese supplier is called "the purpose of chain transparency" where the Dutch government also invests a lot of money so that you can read exactly which chain partners you can do good business with, where the risks are and how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u40	The initiator indicates that the covenant is a step in the right direction, but that an NGO abroad can still identify whether child labour is involved. Now it's getting interesting. So an NGO can point out to a company and also put in the spotlight that something isn't right. Then I come to the network I mentioned in my first term. There have been no questions before about what that network would consist of. I happened to have on my list exactly what you mention about the co-initiators, which are ministries, professors, NGOs and trade unions. Trade unions and NGOs are particularly active in these areas and know exactly what is going on. They've been mapping out what's going on with child labour for a long time. I would like to say that this can lead to arbitrariness. It may be that they don't like Jantje's company and Pietje does, and that's why they only deal with Jantje. How do you want to prevent it leading to randomness? That is our biggest objection to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u41	Mrs Faber asks a number of questions, but that arbitrariness is already there. In fact, it is the companies that are at the forefront of this, who are now facing the major risks of blaming-and-shaming because they are transparent about what they are doing in their chain. It is precisely those companies that are least transparent, make the least visible how they do business, who they do business with and what risks they run with that that are the least likely to experience blaming-and-shaming. This legislative proposal will ensure a level playing field and a business register, which will increase transparency. So it helps prevent randomness. Then there is the second aspect. Of course there is legal certainty. Therefore, there is also a period of six months in which companies themselves can prove that they have received an allegation that is incorrect. That'll be investigated. Soon I will go into enforcement and how it is done. Legal certainty, of course, always applies. It is precisely this bill that helps prevent arbitrariness, ensures that benevolent companies are not placed in an unnecessarily negative light and makes sure that companies that have so far stayed on their dirty hands are forced to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u42	Naming-and-shaming may already be right, but if this bill passes through this Chamber, companies or individuals can get a fine or a prison sentence, so there will certainly be more pressure on the kettle. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u43	Blaming-and-shaming was already there, so that randomness was already there. We agree on that. The bill helps to prevent that. Two: does legal certainty apply? Of course! Companies themselves can demonstrate that they comply with the legislation. That must be done carefully, and that must also be verified. That is what is happening in practice. I'm not so afraid of that myself. The last point is the point I actually started with: NGOs and trade unionists have been worried about child labour for years and know exactly where it is wrong. Exactly! Why then can it be that we have known for years where it is really not right and that we have been calling it against each other for years, but that we are not capable of making a fist with each other? Those covenants are a first, very nice step. I congratulate all the companies that have committed themselves to this and have already made efforts to comply with it. Again, that strengthens each other. I want to appeal to the companies that don't. Maybe we get up to 50% or 60% of the companies that participate, but we still have tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of companies that do not. I want to create a level playing field to avoid arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u44	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u45	I would like to point out to the initiator that this is a reverse burden of proof. If you have such an accusation on your pants, it can be very difficult to refute it. That's point one. In addition, there are already international conventions and guidelines. They can already be maintained, but they won't, because it's too difficult. This bill is not going to help with that, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u46	If all those guidelines worked, I wouldn't be here, so I think it's necessary. Secondly, I think that there can be more equality of law. There are already companies that have been publicly dragged through the mud. Those are exactly companies that were leading the way. This bill helps to protect them. It provides a clear framework for the rules that you have to comply with and for supervision and enforcement, but I will tell you more about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u47	Mrs. Stienen walked through the Christmas market shopping street, but I went to the Makro last week. I've been looking out for my eyes. There are thousands of products of different order and size. How many statements does the Makro have to make to the supervisor? Is that an explanation for every product, or is that one explanation for everything? I have given the example of the cobalt extracted from the Congo via child labour for the batteries of a Chinese supplier. It's full of batteries in the children's toys, to name but a few. They are in everything and everything; also in our own iPads. My question is: how many explanations do a company have to make? One? I don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u48	You give one statement, but again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u49	For all those products?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u50	As a company, you give a statement that you are doing everything within your care obligation to prevent child labour. Supermarket PLUS is one of the parties that has said: do us this bill. PLUS is not a Makro, but it has just as complex a purchase as the Makro, so I think it's a similar example. They'll give one statement. In their policies, they adopt the OECD guidelines. They map the chain, so all the companies and partners they do business with. What many companies do is identify the biggest risks and then make specific policies for those countries or suppliers that they expect the greatest risks from. Then there comes a plan of action, monitoring them and communicating about how they deal with child labour. Mr President, I said at the beginning: no matter what we do in the Netherlands, a 100% guarantee that there will be no child labour in the future, there will be no child labour. That's not what the bill is about. We only ask companies to take their responsibility and comply with their duty of care to look, as far as reasonably possible, at ways of combating child labour. I've just explained that on the basis of six steps. You can also find them on the ILO website. You can also watch Tony's Chocolonely and Nestlé do that. They are already very transparent about how they investigate the chain, how they identify risks and what steps they take. Can they always guarantee 100% that there will never be anything like child labour? No, they can't, but if they identify a problem, they'll start working on it. This can be done by not doing business with some suppliers, but it can be done even better by agreeing with suppliers on accompanying policies, other solutions, eliminating child labour and using adult workers instead, starting training projects. There are many examples they can use. That's what makes it so beautiful, because that doesn't give you a kind of passive bill, a bill from the 1970s, when we thought: we're making one ideal law and that solves all the problems. No, we work with companies step by step towards a world where child labour has been eliminated as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. I've already indicated a little bit what companies can do if they get a warning. As I indicated, they'll look: hey, what's going on here, do I indeed have a problem? If they do see a problem in identifying the risks, they must present a plan of action. This is then reviewed by the supervisor. The supervisor is not going to check in the country of origin if it really is. Consumers, NGOs and trade unions can complain and the supervisor will check whether the company has reasonably done everything it can to prevent child labour. Thus, by identifying the risks and introducing targeted measures, the company can prove that it has done everything it can to prevent child labour in the future. That's how it works in practice. You meet with a single explanation, but if there is a complaint, you have to do more; then you have to do more on the basis of such a step-by-step plan that all companies will already do on their own to work towards fulfilling the duty of care in the context of child labour. As I said, but I repeat myself, examples of this include Tony's Chocolonely and Nestlé, but I am sure a lot of other companies are already transparent in the steps they are taking. Legal certainty was requested, among others, by Mrs Stienen and Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u51	Mr Ester has another interruption and then I would like to give Mrs Kuik the opportunity to give her story a bit of body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u52	That seems very sensible to me, Mr President. I have a question about the roadmap. I had a question about that, too. I understand that the vision is not to work that out too much, that every company is more or less free to think about how such a format, such a roadmap, could look like. But would it not be reasonable and good to offer a kind of format for this, also on the basis of the principle of comparability, so that those roadmaps and plans of approach are a bit comparable? Some companies are better able to invest in this than others, but from the whole preliminary stage, I understood that you are in a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u53	We have chosen not to record this, because sectors and companies are different. The government has also asked us not to record this staccato but to release it. This also contributes to avoiding administrative burdens. On the other hand, companies can, of course, work together and make use of each other's examples and of each other's chain information. You can do that. And money is also being invested, not since today but for years, to increase that chain transparency. I think that is something that this cabinet will also want to take steps in the future. With or without this bill, although of course I hope for the first. The Minister will also respond to that. I hope that I have answered your question sufficiently. Mr. Chairman. I said I want to work with different blocks. It's not that bad, because we're already on the move. I have said something about the background, the objective and history. I said something about the covenants. I have dealt with the question of how to do it in practice, to which a shopkeeper in the street, as Mrs Stienen mentioned, must comply. I have also said something about the legal certainty of companies and how they operate. In my view, I can now address the question of how enforcement and supervision should be regulated. A number of questions have been asked, among others by the spokesmen of the VVD, D66, the CDA, the SGP and the Christian Union, but perhaps also by others, about the choice of the supervisor. We've been playing with different ideas. Perhaps you should have a very new independent impo-supervisor, also appropriate to the practice and developments that are currently taking place, but we finally opted for the Authority's Consumer & Market, partly because a large part of the advisors also referred to the ACM. A number of questions have been asked about this, so let me give you an example. A number of people wonder whether the Authority Consumer & Market is possible, because the ACM itself indicates that it is not waiting for it. I understand that, too. Supervisors and inspections often do not wait for new tasks. Still, it's not unusual. For example, in order to tackle unfair commercial practices and distorted market power in the food chain, the Authority Consumer & Markt will also provide a dedicated team for the agronutri chain. The ACM shall, if necessary, be given additional specific powers in relation to disputes in this field. So you can see that the developments in this Authority and also in inspections are not taking place. Nevertheless, at the request of the government, we have chosen not to specifically designate a supervisor, but to leave that open. The Authority Consumer & Market could, the NVWA could, it could also be a cooperation between the NCP and the ACM, but that is a final part of the AMvB. The Minister can record that. My experience is also that when the House of Representatives has decided on legislation, there will always be a supervisor, there will always be someone who can do so. There were also concerns about whether an authority or an inspector in the Netherlands can handle that task at all, also because it is about a responsibility abroad. I have already said that the authority does not check whether the legislation is being complied with abroad, as is already happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u54	I would have expected a slightly more positive approach to the question of which authority is to supervise and maintain. Now it sounds like a club has to be found somewhere to do this. I hear now: it doesn't matter that much, we'll figure it out later. Isn't it possible to show very positively why the ACM should do that and, if it doesn't, why someone else should? And if that doesn't work either, you're almost ready to set up a specific authority. So I just want a positive term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u56	Now something sounds like: we'll see about it, there will be an AMvB and then you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u57	Mr. Chairman. It's probably my Frisian roots that make sure I don't go positive enough. I'm sorry about that. We finally opted for the Consumer & Market Authority, because it is an authority. She is used to acting, all companies take the Authority's Consumer & Market seriously, she is used to imposing heavy fines and maintaining them firmly. It is also there for the consumer. This is a law that protects the consumer and the products we sell here in the Netherlands. The ACM connects to that seamlessly. She is not only there for the fight against cartels, but also for consumers. It is used to addressing new areas of work, and there are also many discussions now, including on sustainability objectives. In short, the ACM is used to tilting the mind and looking at new areas in which it will have to operate. Well, I hope this was a little more convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u58	If that is so clear now, why is the how and the what, and also the way in which supervision and enforcement is then monitored and enforced, including sanctions, not included in the law with a few articles?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u59	I would have liked that. However, the government and also the House of Representatives have asked us not to specifically fill in this supervisory role. Why not? Because one wants to learn from the experiences that are now being gained with covenants, because one wants to enter into conversation with NGOs and business and on that basis and on the basis of the AMvB to see which supervisor is most appropriate. But do I think a supervisor will be hard to find? A new task area always requires attention, but I think it can be done. And this is a great opportunity for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u60	I see Mrs Stienen wants to interrupt. I have just said that I would like to give Mrs Kuik the opportunity to make some progress on the first-term response. If we keep interrupting like this, we won't be finished by noon tonight. Mrs. Stienen, you will now have the opportunity to interrupt. I would ask the others to clear it up until the second term. You all have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u61	I heard Mrs Kuik mention a supervisor who said quite explicitly herself in the expert meeting here in this house. I quote the words of Mrs Van Buchem of the Consumer & Market Authority on page 31 of the report. "The ACM also does not see itself as a suitable supervisor for this supervision. We're set up to make markets function properly. The supervision we are talking about now has the nature of the work of an inspection service rather than of a market supervisor, etc. and so on. I would like to know if the initiator has had contact with the ACM about the fact that she is now calling the ACM. Then how did she discuss with the ACM that the ACM itself said quite clearly: we do not see ourselves as the appropriate supervisor to oversee the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u62	We heard the ACM. She has said: if you do that, that basically means a new task accent for us, and that calls for staff and finance. We recognize that. You're gonna have to solve that problem, too. At the same time, however, I also see in the coalition agreement that there are appropriate rules and more room for companies with a social or social objective. I would also say: giving more room for socially or socially responsible companies also involves taking action against companies that take it less closely with these interests. So the world is changing and the way we look at companies that take responsibility changes. That also means that the role of such an ACM changes. As far as I am concerned, this task accent could fit well in with that. But, of course, that requires people with expertise. However, that would apply to all the branches of sport that we now know. This also applies to the agreements. If we are going to evaluate it later, we will also have to see if we want to go further. Who's gonna do that, how are we gonna do that and how are we gonna operate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u63	Mrs. Stienen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u64	I just wanted to say that I keep the rest of the questions for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u65	Okay, Mrs. Chicken is continuing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u66	Mr. Chairman. Among other things, Mrs Lokin asked a question about the state's attorney's office. It is precisely the prosecutor who has asked us to shape the bill in the way that we have done it now, because the prosecution can enforce it. It is true that we did not choose to act immediately in criminal matters. Precisely because the chains are so complex, you have to give businesses the opportunity to take their own responsibility. We have therefore also chosen gradually for the first time a fine and then criminal prosecution. Mrs. Faber asked, aren't you double-punishing now? No, you don't. At the first warning and violation, the company gets a fine. The second time a fine is imposed, there is a criminal route. This also applies, for example, to the multi-stakeholder approach. Then it is not the first reproach but the second reproach. So there is no double mandate. We did discuss with the state's attorney's office whether or not the bill is going to work. Again, there is always a lack of capacity and they always need more, but it is not possible. So they can get away with the way in which we put this proposal in place. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions about supervision. You did say to us: save the questions for a second term. But if I have forgotten something very urgent, I would rather hear it now instead of having to do it twice in the second term. I see I haven't forgotten anything. Then I'd like to move on to the accompanying policy. A number of questions have been asked, among others by D66. How does it work in relation to the Child Labour Fund? We see two branches in that. On the one hand, you can use that fund, which is also being expanded; pay tribute to the cabinet! To ensure that you shape system responsibility more and make the chain more transparent. On the other hand, you can have accompanying policies for companies who find on the spot that there is child labour, without having wanted it themselves. Then you can think about education. This also makes it sustainable policy. Is there enough money? A number of Members have asked that question. Money may be a shortcoming, but I believe that there are only 15 companies that have made use of this fund. When the bill comes, do I expect the storm to run? No, I don't expect that. We will see how it goes on, but it certainly serves as support to make the legislative proposal possible. A number of your members, including D66, asked about the finances. We talked about a $1 million budget. I based it on the most similar organization we know in the Netherlands. That is the National Contact Point OECD guidelines, the NCP; I have already mentioned it. The NCP is now housed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has an annual budget of €450,000. A register is attached to this law. That register will be kept and filled in. This may entail additional costs, but I think 1 million is a fair amount. This makes it more than twice the budget of the NCP. Moreover, the money is not separate from it, because the government has been pursuing all kinds of accompanying policies when it comes to chain transparency and its further shaping. They also asked about the administrative burden on the company itself. Is it fair then? It was asked: what do you base yourself on; why do you think it is lower than in similar legislation in the United Kingdom, for example? We based the estimate of 100 to 150 million a year on that bill. Only in this way is a greater responsibility of companies to make a completely transparent plan of approach, while the shopkeeper purchasing Christmas lighting asks the supplier: make a statement to the supervisor and comply with it. This means that we expect the administrative burden to be lower. This is, of course, done in conjunction with what is already going on. Mr Ester asked a question about the Law on Economic Crimes. My answer to that is: no, there is no need for separate legislative changes. It is automatically supplemented by a reference to the law, subject to the adoption of the legislative proposal. Mrs Lokin has asked a question about the royal decision. It's quite unique, but it's possible. Perhaps it is up to the Minister whether we want it to be that way. But then you'd have to do it by a withdrawal decision. This is an amendment by the D66 Group in the House of Representatives. So that's how it went in the Lower House. We've been looking into it, and it's possible. It's in the law. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been like that. Mr President, with that I am already a whole end through my questions in the first term. I'm just gonna see if I forgot something really urgent. I don't think that's the case. Otherwise, it's gonna come in second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u68	Mr President, thank you. Today, the initiative-law proposal - Chicken - is on the table. It is, of course, the duty of care to prevent the supply of goods and services created by child labour, the law on child labour. As you know, the proposal was accepted by the Supreme Court. This Chamber too has already considered the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u69	You'll mean the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u70	Excuse me. It says here "this room too." I'll mean the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u71	You said the proposal was accepted by the Supreme Court. That's this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u72	You're right. "This Chamber" is then incorrect in Dutch. It continued to build on the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives also examined the proposal. There has been written consultation with the initiator and with my predecessor Mrs Ploumen. Combating child labour must be central. In my view, the consumer should be less central. It is also important, but child labour itself is always high on the agenda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make an argument in which I do as well as I can to answer the questions of the senators. I would like to do that on the basis of a number of themes, based on the following subdivision. What's behind us? That has already been extensively appointed. What's in front of us now? What are the benefits of the law? Then I come to the key question of whether the law is effective and meets the objective. Then I come to the problems of feasibility. I would like to comment on the wording of due diligence, supervision and scope. The next theme is the legislative proposal in a broader context and in relation to the import agreements. I would also like to briefly mention the international playing field and our current policy on combating child labour. What's behind us? I will try to do this as soon as possible, because it has been referred to many times. The drafting of the bill has come a long way. The Council of State has expressed itself very critically and several political groups have given constructive consideration to the proposal. The proposal started as an import ban. It was referred to earlier. It was changed to the Child Labour Care Duty Act as it now stands. The initiator aims to combat child labour by means of the law. The law must also ensure that consumers can assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market have been created without the use of child labour. The cabinet is, of course, very positive about combating child labour. It also sees this bill in that light. The proposal is in line with a movement that has been going on for some time. It's about due diligence, about due diligence by companies. This concept was introduced by John Ruggie in 2011 in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These principles set out in detail that companies have a separate responsibility to respect human rights. So it's broader. That responsibility shall be fulfilled by the concept of due diligence. But more has happened since 2011. The UN Guiding Principles have been incorporated into renewed OECD guidelines. That has also been mentioned before. The cabinet therefore expects all internationally operating companies to comply with these guidelines. The Netherlands and more and more other countries have national action plans. We were there fore adopted on human rights and business. In the Netherlands, of course, we now also have the imvo agreements, which help companies to apply the concept of "appropriate care" and to address risks that they cannot solve independently. "Advanced care" means that companies identify and actually can identify risks in their chain, prevent or mitigate identified risks and be transparent about how they do so. The steps to be taken by companies depend on various factors, such as their place in the chains, the likelihood of the risk occurring and the consequences when the risk is actually reflected. The Sustainable Development Goals, which provide the framework for the future memorandum of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and OS, or SDGs in English, also recognise the central role of companies in sustainable development. Respect for man and nature must also remain central, but what is ahead of us? Since the adoption of the National Action Plan on Human Rights and Business, the Netherlands has been strongly committed to raising awareness among and among companies, including by providing information on the concept of "appropriate care" but also through working with multi-party initiatives, such as the covenants. Within covenants, parties make agreements on improvements in the chain. These agreements focus, on the one hand, on the due diligence that companies must carry out individually and, on the other, on the setting up of joint programmes or activities designed to improve the places where the risks occur. For those sectors and companies, for which child labour is a major risk, such as the textile sector, broad attention is given to the agreements, including child labour. Legislation, focused on due care, is one of the possible measures that could be used if it turns out that the imvo targets, such as combating child labour, but not only that, are not achieving the best results. The Foreign Affairs Evaluation Unit, i.e. the Executive Board of International Research and Policy Evaluation, IOB, conducts the process evaluation of the IPO policy, including the covenants. The intended delivery date is at the end of 2018. Two years after the coalition agreement, therefore, a new assessment will be made on the basis of an evaluation. Earlier evaluation makes little sense because the agreements in the covenants need time to produce and show effect. The Social Economic Council is also preparing a progress report on agreements. So I also see the bill in the light of this broader approach, and in that respect the bill is actually premature. "Too early" is difficult to say given the time span, but this is a moment when you can say that it comes too soon now when you look at the broader case that occurs. The legislative proposal may also be too limited because it focuses only on child labour and not on the other issues covered by the OECD directives, such as forced labour, environmental pollution, trade union freedom, climate and corruption. In this context, Mr Overbeek asked about the possibility of including forced labour in the law, after the assessment in five years' time. In general, all government initiatives aim to focus not only on child labour, but also on forced labour in line with the OECD guidelines on all abuses in the chain. I therefore welcome Mr Overbeek's suggestion. I would also like to know more about the experience of legislation in other countries. Can legislation in importing countries actually bring about changes in production countries? Which legislation is then effective? Is the legislation aimed at general due diligence, such as in France, or at a specific issue, such as child labour, in the legislative proposal or the initiative law that is now before us? In my view, wider legislation is more in line with international standards. But I will now focus on the present, because the House of Representatives has taken the initiative in this law. I shall now go into more detail. The cabinet sees both the benefits of the law and the serious problems arising, inter alia, in relation to its feasibility. I'll start with the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u73	The Minister gives an interesting reflection on the whole field of action, the battlefield. I don't know what to call it. She also talks about possible legislation, but I still miss a conclusion. Could it be that this law has a bit of annoyance with the Minister's vis-à-vis him, namely some broader legislation that can get hands and feet if an evaluation has taken place, let us say at the end of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u74	I have a longer story, so I haven't come to a conclusion yet. With permission, I'd like to proceed first. Then the balance in the story will probably show itself. I'll start with the benefit of this law. The advantage of this law is that it asks companies to actively check whether products and services they sell have been produced with child labour. As has already been mentioned in detail, companies themselves must declare that they apply due care in relation to child labour in their chain. A standard is therefore set which is also symbolic of great value. The bill allows companies to be legally paid for their approach or lack of approach to child labour, including fines and prosecutions. We see that a large number of companies are already actively engaged in this due diligence and some are also specifically involved in child labour. This Chamber also received a letter from these companies expressing support for a legal framework. But there are also those who remain behind and these can be stimulated by the law. The law can thus contribute to creating a level playing field, including for companies. In this way, the initiator aims to combat child labour and protect consumers on the Dutch market from buying goods and services that have been created using child labour. But is the law, as it has been formulated, effective? The goal is not easy to achieve in the current construction. Both in the Lower House and in this Chamber are important questions about the effectiveness of the law. The thrust of the bill is consumer protection. The consumer must be able to assume that products he or she buys are child labour-free, but the underlying objective is, of course, that child labour is addressed through this law. The question is also whether this law can contribute to effectively tackling child labour. The Council of State raises relevant questions. In its opinion of 2016, the Council of State indicated that the initiator has not sufficiently motivated why national legislation as the present proposal can make an effective contribution to combating child labour. Child labour is a global problem that occurs in global value chains. The International Labour Organisation, the ILO, estimates that only 5% of child labour is in formal export-related economic transactions. 95% of child labour is much deeper in value chains, making it much more difficult to trace. The fact that governments in countries where child labour occurs do not address child labour properly creates a situation in which companies consciously or unconsciously still use child labour. Legislation for Dutch companies is at best an indirect way to tackle the problem, but the question remains whether this actually leads to less child labour. It is also questionable whether this law effectively protects consumers from buying products produced by child labour. This was also called into question by the Council of State. Consumers should rely on the company statement published on a website. Each company, including foreign-based companies serving the Dutch market, must comply strictly with the legal obligations. However, the website does not provide consumers with sufficient clarity, as not every company needs to submit a statement. For example, companies that only purchase from companies with a declaration do not need to give a statement. It is unclear to the consumer why a company does not make a statement. Is that because he or she cannot declare appropriate care to be taken, or because the company only purchases from parties with a statement? This is also difficult for companies. If the first in a chain issues a statement, the second in the chain may waive a statement, but the third in the chain that decreases from the second must make a statement, because that company cannot build on the declaration of the second. So that's a complicated story. In addition, the lack of monitoring opportunities abroad, which is a major problem, implies that an explanation does not guarantee that child labour does not occur in the production chain. For companies at the end of a value chain, it is very difficult to determine, let alone prevent, the creation of products or services using child labour. This brings me to the problems surrounding the feasibility of the legislative proposal, starting with the wording 'appropriate care'. The legislative proposal, as has already been discussed in detail, is based on the principle of due diligence. The principle is difficult to capture or formulate in a law because the starting point of due diligence is a process of continuous improvement. Like companies, for example, continuously improve production processes to save costs, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights demand that companies continue to identify, prevent and mitigate risks in their chain. This calls for realistic improvement plans to be drawn up with suppliers, who often have to make agreements with third parties. If there is no improvement or too little improvement, a break-up of a trade relationship is only a last resort. Among other things, Mr Schaap asks how it should become clear that an entrepreneur has made sufficient efforts in the field of due diligence. What actions are appropriate depends on the company's operating characteristics, the size of the company, the location in the chain, etc., and the characteristics of risks. Therefore, it is often difficult to determine whether due care has been taken and remains a subject of discussion. Clear and unambiguous standards are needed for legal enforcement and certainly criminalisation. The current lack of substantive definition of due diligence was therefore an important reason for the Council of State to consider that the law leads to legal uncertainty. The law does not make clear what is a "reasonable presumption" or what the plan of action should involve. This does not make it clear to companies what they should do. The Council of State concluded, because of this uncertainty, that the law threatens legal certainty. The law leaves room for further requirements at AMvB regarding the statement and the plans of approach for the company's due diligence. However, providing clarification will remain difficult, as risks in the chain are continuously in flux. They're changing. When has a company tried hard enough to detect a reasonable suspicion of child labour? That's still a question. And how does this relate to the one-off declaration that companies have to submit? That's an important question. Also due care is about continuous improvement, but when is there sufficient improvement? If there is improvement, is that enough, let alone sufficient? These issues are difficult to identify in the legislation and are difficult to monitor. Mr Overbeek asked a question about the relationship between the covenants and the fulfilment of due diligence. As a minister, I can approve a joint plan of action drawn up by companies, NGOs and employees. If a company implements such an approved plan of approach, it is a form of due diligence according to the present bill. So this requires an action from me as a minister. A joint plan of approach can be drawn up within a covenant, although it has not been taken into account in previous agreements. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether it would be better if there were a format to prescribe for the company's own declaration. I agree. This can be arranged via AMvB. The surveillance. This is also linked to the question of how supervision should be exercised. In the event of complaints, the supervisor shall review the statements submitted and, where appropriate, the plan of action of the company concerned. These are acts carried out in the Netherlands, but a complaint from NGOs or other interested parties will relate to alleged child labour in the chain, i.e. abroad. The supervisor has no powers abroad and cannot conduct an independent factual investigation there. Therefore, it is difficult for the supervisor to determine whether or not companies have exercised sufficient "appropriate care." Companies may be punished with an administrative fine, and after repeated imprisonment, but it is not clear to companies how the supervisor will make a final assessment or judgement on this. During the examination of the proposal in the Lower House, the question was raised as to which existing supervisors are best placed to exercise supervision. There was no clear conclusion. None of the current supervisors, as we know, see a role for themselves. There is also a need for further discussion on this issue. Several senators have asked me who I would consider appropriate as a supervisor. To be honest, I cannot make any further comments on this at this stage. This should also be regulated in the general measure of governance, where appropriate. However, existing supervisors have indicated that for various reasons, including the mandate, the capacity and the real scope.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Schaap and Mr Ester asked a question about the costs. The capacity and resources of the supervisor remain dependent on the scope that is ultimately chosen. However, I can say that these resources will eventually have to come from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. The more one wants, the more money it's going to cost. The effectiveness is unknown, but the budget has already been spent and can no longer be used to combat child labour, for example, through a programmatic approach. Mr Schaap and Mrs Lokin also asked whether it had not been obvious to have the supervisor appointed by law. The answer is yes. In connection with this, Mrs Lokin and Mr Overbeek have asked whether it is strange that the law can be repealed by royal decree. I'll go along with this too. I can therefore promise that I will not make use of this opportunity. Another problem in implementation concerns the definition of the scope of the law. Should the law on as many companies as possible of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u75	A question from Mrs. Lokin. Run, Mrs. Lokin!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u76	I'm too old for that. I listen with tense attention to what the Minister says. She says: the bill comes too soon, some things like the supervisor should actually be incorporated into the law, etc. Can I conclude from your story that you are not willing to sign this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u77	Well, in the context of Suspense... I understand it's taking a long time, Madam President. We've been here since 10:00 this morning. With your permission, I'd like to continue until the end. It remains an initiative law of the Lower House which is reviewed by the Upper Chamber, is my understanding. I'd like to give the First Chamber the elements to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u78	That's how we have a cliffhanger! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u79	The scope. As I have just begun: the definition of the scope remains another problem. Should the law concern as many companies as possible or should we limit the scope to keep the administrative burden bearable? This will also have to be decided in the future AMvB, provided that the proposal is adopted. I can give an insight into possible criteria that the cabinet could use. The most important criterion remains proportionality. Mrs Stienen also pointed out this. Are the additional burdens that companies will face, proportionate to the expected return, i.e. the extent to which the risks of child labour are reduced? This means that companies could be exempted if charges would be disproportionately high, for example because of the small size of a company and/or because the risks of child labour in their chain are disproportionately low, i.e. almost non-preventing or estimated as such. Important also remains to bet on a level playing field. There is a possibility of looking at criteria applied by other countries, such as France and the United Kingdom. Several senators have asked questions about the layout of the various AMvBs. In all cases, therefore, the content of these AMvBs still needs to be worked out. These questions therefore come a little early. Mrs Stienen had another question about the involvement of business in the preparation of the AMvBs. I can confirm that if this law is adopted, I will involve all interested parties, including companies, in the process, in the formulation and, of course, in the implementation. In this context, Mr. Overbeek asked how lobbying activities are handled. My answer to this is simple: the government is the guardian of the public interest. The general interest here is the fight against child labour, the input of NGOs and companies and anyone who wants to share a comment or insight can be taken into account in the recital. This is different from lobbying activities, I believe. To Mr. Lintmeijer and Mr. Overbeek I can say that both chambers will be involved in the trial through the promised heavy suspension procedure. Mr Overbeek asked another question, namely whether the AMvB would allow companies within a specific sector to collectively meet the requirements of the law. Once again this will have to be worked out later in the process of writing the AMvB. At first, however, I do not think this is in line with the individual responsibility of companies and with the broader legislative proposal. The law lays down a clear standard: those who fall within the scope of the law will have to comply with it. Parties generally do not want to run the risk of violating the law, especially when violations become punishable by fines. Potential danger will continue to act risk-avoidingly among companies, in order to comply with the law. The possibility that companies would prefer to opt for another supplier after identifying risks of child labour and not for cooperation with their supplier to work on improvement through a plan of approach is also real. Those who work with a plan of action also run the risk of being accused of not taking sufficient care. A company that breaks trade relations makes clean hands, but does not contribute to the reduction of child labour. Customized care is a matter of long breath and a real improvement in the chain.I hope I have carefully explained the complexity of the chain... takes time and effort. The criminalisation of too limited due diligence can also result in companies becoming less transparent about the challenge in their chain and avoiding cooperation with third parties. However, the agreement policy is aimed at preventing these potential negative side effects from being realised. In addition, the agreements allow for more ambitious agreements than can be laid down in a law. The law often lays down only a minimum standard. That is also the case with this bill. The law focuses only on preventing child labour, it only requires a one-off statement and not reporting. For this reason, for example, VNO-NCW is opposed to this bill. In a letter to the House of Representatives, VNO-NCW warned that the broad consensus would quickly erode to voluntarily improve its own chain through the covenants if the government also introduced legislation at this stage. Others argue that agreements and legislation can complement each other. Mr Ester and Mrs Vlietstra specifically ask me what I think of this. This is difficult to put and to say in advance. There are companies and stakeholders who say that the law ensures that companies will properly comply with the covenants. As I have just mentioned, there are also parties who say that the companies may or may not cooperate temporarily in the agreements. That is a pity, because the covenants have many advantages over this law. Covenants are also aimed at achieving proper due diligence in the broad sense, looking at the biggest and most serious risks in collaboration with companies, the government, NGOs and other parties. Agreements are made in the agreements on how parties should monitor and report on progress. The bill only calls for a one-off statement, not a recurring report. The covenants contribute to transparency and this bill is not necessarily because a company always publishes a single declaration that does not have to be longer than a few rules. The plan of action and how it is worked out is not public information. In this context, much attention has been paid to improving the local situation through cooperation between companies, civil society organisations and/or public authorities. As a result, the law may mean that companies do not commit themselves to tackling child labour, but only avoid the risk of child labour in order to avoid a fine or prison sentence. In my opinion, the covenants are very ambitious, and this is also more ambitious for the government than the legislative proposal before us, both in terms of scope and ambition, not to avoid high-risk areas, but rather to tackle the problems. It cannot be ruled out that the bill will indirectly undermine the agreement approach. On the other hand, companies that are parties to the covenant can more easily meet the requirements of the law. Whether this initiative law is passed by this Chamber or not, I would like to ask companies and civil society organisations to continue to work mainly on the creation and implementation of the covenants. I am, of course, pleased that those in favour of this law, as the companies that have already been mentioned, are also associated with a covenant. I can come back later to Mrs Stienen's question as to what the government is doing to speed up the agreement process and to involve more companies in this process. Mrs Vlietstra asked how it could be encouraged that companies do not wait until the law enters into force. Existing initiatives encouraging companies to implement the OECD guidelines should be sufficient. Madam President, I'm almost done. It's a long story. I've tried in my story to take as many questions as I can. I would like to make two more points: one is the international playing field, two is the current policy with regard to the child labour fund. The international playing field. As I pointed out in my introduction, since the adoption and introduction of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, there have been many developments around the concept of "appropriate care." The concept is central to the EU and directives have been adopted on conflict minerals and illegal logging. In the UK, the Modern Slavery Act has been adopted since 2015 and in France, companies have to comply with the Loi de Vigilance by 2018. In the UK there is single issue legislation, in France there is a broad law on due diligence. In other countries, such as Germany, as in the Netherlands, a more voluntary approach is adopted. Germany, through the National Action Plan, has called on German industry to exercise due care. They will measure by 2020 whether 50% of German industry actually does so. Specifically in the field of child labour, there are two ILO conventions in this area, with numbers 138 and 182. Unfortunately, the compliance of governments with countries where child labour occurs is very poor. This is demonstrated by the large number of children still involved in child labour worldwide. In agreements the EU makes with these countries, for example in the framework of trade agreements, treaty partners commit themselves to implementing these conventions. Mr Lintmeijer asked if I could see opportunities for initiatives at European level. A systematic discussion on a possible duty of care for businesses in relation to their international chains has not yet taken place at EU level and is not foreseen by the European Commission. However, I would like to work for this, not only from the point of view of a level playing field, but also in view of the weight that the EU can bring to bear and the complexity of international chains. Mrs Stienen asked whether the government is seeking cooperation with other EU countries in the field of covenants. The answer is yes. The government calls for attention to be paid to the agreements through various European and international fora. We also recently appointed this at the ILO conference on child labour in Argentina. The government is also seeking bilateral cooperation with other European countries. Work is currently under way on the creation of a natural stone convenant. For example, the ambition is to make joint agreements with parties in Belgium and with the Benelux federation of natural stone wholesalers. My final point is the current policy. Much has been done by the previous cabinet and by this cabinet in the field of child labour. Firstly, this is done through general contributions to organisations such as UNICEF, ILO, international NGOs and Dutch NGOs. Of course, we also work together on specific projects. For example, investments are being made in crisis countries, through UNICEF, where, of course, child labour is also growing, because parents are unemployed, refugees and have no other means. But we also work through civil society, through a collaboration with the coalition Stop Child Labour, including HIVOS and FNV Global, working to roll out the so-called child labour-free zones. They use an area-based approach, which focuses on bringing together local government, employers and other local community leaders. Another initiative worthy of mention is, of course, the Child Labour Fighting Fund. This fund specifically earmarked 5 million for multi-party initiatives in 2016. The fund can also count on more support in the start-up it will make in 2018, with a higher budget of 7 million. This was also the result of the Voordewind/Van Veldhoven motion. That is separate from the coalition agreement, but I shall pay a great deal of attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u80	Mr. Overbeek, you're sitting there. Do you want to interrupt or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u81	I have some sort of closing question. I'm waiting for the last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u82	Okay, you're gonna have to wait. Mrs. Vlietstra is also waiting for the last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u83	That's still very exciting. Of course, I did not submit the initiative law, but I am commenting on behalf of the government. I will not go into the details and all the activities arising from the budget of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. It's three points, and I'll conclude right now. The government wants to combat child labour in the most effective way possible. The cabinet appreciates the initiative proposal, which raises the question of how best to tackle child labour outside Dutch jurisdiction and legislation, but the cabinet rightly has fundamental doubts about the effectiveness, feasibility and supervision of this proposal: does it actually contribute to tackling child labour on the one hand and protecting the Dutch consumer on the other? Whether this proposed law offers the right added value for this approach remains debatable. The cabinet will continue to work for the various instruments and will remain available for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u84	Thank you. Mr Overbeek wants to interrupt and then Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u85	I have listened with appreciation to the Minister's speech. I note in the Chamber that, thanks to the chairman's strict warnings, the number of interruptions has fallen dramatically. I would like to counter that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u86	You're not gonna be talking through that microphone very slowly, are you? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u87	No, no. I would like to put a question to the Minister on the following. As a whole, she stressed the importance of international cooperation and the promotion through international cooperation of more or less voluntary efforts by governments, businesses and social partners to reduce child labour. That is very nice, but how does she look at fairly recent evaluations of the progress of that process? For example, I quote the minister's probably known Roel Nieuwenkamp, the chair of the OECD Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct. Progress in compliance with the OECD guidelines is so slow and business is so hard to follow that it notes that "impatient government push corporate supply chain due diligence." He therefore sees the development of which the proposal is also an expression as a result of the reluctance of industry to actually implement the OECD Directive. A similar conclusion was recently drawn in November from a broad study by the University of Leuven, the Centre for Global Governance, published in Global Policy. It also states that it appears to be extremely difficult to bring business to real action and that continuous efforts, both at international level and through national legislation, are absolutely necessary to drive this process forward. I see the present draft law somewhat in that context: without a hard instrument...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u88	Can you formulate your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u89	My question is how the Minister looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u90	Mrs Vlietstra, does this answer your question or do we give the Minister the opportunity to answer Mr Overbeek's question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u91	My question is on the same level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u92	Well, I'll give the Minister the opportunity to answer first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u93	I will, of course, return to the principle of beginning: when is legislation necessary and what kind of legislation then? Well, that's actually the question. In accordance with the coalition agreement, too, I remain clear: covenants must be given time, despite the brutality of reality. Progress has, of course, also been made. I do not know the report. I'll read that, of course. There are three pillars in the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. The first pillar is state duty to protect; I'm sorry, I'm not translating that, because that's just what it says here. The second pillar is corporate responsibility to protect. The third pillar is access to remedy. As far as I am concerned, legislation is always an important element, which must be above the market. However, it is too early and if that legislation is to be formulated, it must help achieve its objectives. Too many questions are open in this initiative law, so feasibility is a major problem. Then I do not see that we are tackling the real problem of child labour effectively. The EU is a good channel to launch this. I'm sure I'd like to make a commitment to that. I think that's important. Because of the global value chains, it is also important that we do this comprehensively. I also think that there is still time to see what works and what does not. I can't give a value judgment on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u94	My question is in fact in line with that. I also note that many of my questions have not yet been answered, but I will come back to them in the second term. I started my story by expressing concerns about compliance with both the OECD guidelines and the ILO core conventions. I also referred to the SGDs and I asked the Minister whether she agrees with us and on that point we share our concerns that the ambitions we want to achieve by 2025 could not be met with the current measures and at the current rate. In fact, I have received no reply from the Minister other than that she wants to evaluate the information agreement first. The result will be at the end of 2018. On this basis, and also on the basis of further knowledge about what is happening in Europe, it will assess whether further steps and, where appropriate, legislation are necessary. I am strongly committed to realising the ambitions which I assume the Minister endorses. I understand from the Minister that this law is not her preferred right away. I would very much like to hear from the Minister in which direction we should be thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u95	I just want to ask you one thing. I assume the SDGs are meant. I don't know the SGDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u96	SDGs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u97	Excuse me, I've heard that wrong. The ambition is indeed for 2030. It is also called the 2030 Agenda, which was adopted in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u98	One of the SDGs, SDG 8.7 perhaps I have just expressed myself unclearly; excuses assume that in 2025 child labour is out of the world. So that's before 2030: by 2025, child labour must be out of the world. That's seven years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u99	I was talking about the SDGs. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn ze alle zeventien.]] The integrated framework needs to be addressed and progress made by 2030. So I'll start with the frame. As far as SDG 8.7 is concerned, for example, it is important that a concrete integrated approach to child labour is not just about that SDG. It depends on poverty reduction and food security and also has to do with climate change. It has a lot to do with SDG 17, involvement of all parties: states, state actors, private sector, NGOs and so on. It also has to do with SDG 16, and-and. An example: Syrian refugee children are working today. They were not victims of child labour in the past, but now they work in refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. There are constantly changing elements. Legislation: yes. But as far as the global value chain is concerned, the reality is too complex to make it through this initiative legislative proposal. Everything is left to an AMvB. The supervisors who may identify themselves with this do not do so voluntarily, on their own. Many of the elements and learning processes of a covenant cannot be taken into account. Many parties from the business community are mixed in. And we do not know whether this approach will actually make progress on SDG 8.7 by 2025. Maybe that's why this isn't the right way. So that remains my answer. Indeed, there are the conventions. That is why we are working through BHOS funding to cooperate and strengthen capacity in countries where the worst forms of child labour occur. But that's what you're doing with a broader budget. That's what you're doing again through World Bank funding. And you do that by looking at good governance and the like. Child labour is often the weakest link in a larger link of exploitation. That is why countries such as France and the United Kingdom have looked at a different theme, even if you look at similar material. A country like France has opted for companies that are much larger. The UK is only looking at companies with a turnover of 41 million euros. Is that gonna fit? Doesn't that fit? There's a lot of question marks. This is what I'm talking about. If legislation is adopted, we will always be loyal to it, but there must be a law that is as close to the original objective as possible and not legislation that starts a parallel process. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u100	I have a quick question. Then I do not have to put it in second place and I can keep it short. The Minister is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. She has a very wide network of embassies at her disposal, including European embassies. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she can already say something about how embassies and the European Union's international network can be involved in monitoring compliance with a particular type of legislation, whether that is the legislation we may adopt today or the OECD directives. At the same time, I would also like to ask whether the role of the international network of the Dutch foreign service in monitoring compliance with OECD guidelines and perhaps this law can also be taken into account in the evaluation of the IOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u101	I think I should come back to this in second place. A number of questions are being asked and I would like to make sure that my own assumptions are correct. It is mainly about posts and their role in relation to information on compliance with OECD guidelines. In many countries there are no programmes financed separately by ILO. But there is a lot of information through the Universal Periodic Review of the Human Rights Council. There is also information that is presented separately by the ILO every year. So there are different sources. The real question is, I think: what does the Ministry do with it and what is the question to the officials at the embassies? That's an important question. I would first like to get some information about this, about the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-19.u102	Thank you. I'm suspending the debate and the meeting for dinner break.
