ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Speaking time is four minutes per group. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Rooijen, of 50PLUS. I wonder if this is your maiden speech, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u2	Actually, no, Mr. Chairman. In the old building and in the last century, to be exact in 1978, I held my real, first maiden speech in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u3	That doesn't count!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u4	That doesn't count, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u5	No. Here's to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u6	So you can't be interrupted, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u7	I don't know if I should be happy about that, but that will prove to be true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u8	Some people are jealous of that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you for your friendly opening words. They put everything in a historical context. Mr. Chairman. The euro area is going to examine, as it is called, the fiscal sustainability of pension systems. A benchmark is introduced for this purpose on the basis of so-called common principles. Forgive me English, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the crucial question is: what exactly is this benchmark about? Is it only about the first pillar, is it about the first and the second pillar, or is it about both pillars together, in conjunction? The European Commission's note of 13 March seems to aim at both. A clarification is urgently needed, because in the documents, in our opinion, these issues are always mixed up. It's not very clear. Are the discussion and the benchmark really as noncommittal as the Minister wants us to believe? The aim is primarily to address weak pension brothers in the Member States, but who guarantees us that strong systems, such as our AOW and our second pillar, will be free from interference? We have little to gain from our strong pension system and a great deal to lose from European interference. The benchmark also has a strong relationship with country-specific recommendations. Isn't that a sign of non-committality? We ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to go into this thoroughly. The cabinet seems to recognise that pension regulation should remain a national issue, but what are the legal safeguards for that? Can the Minister state them carefully? The Secretary of State for Finance indicated in an earlier written consultation that further additional European legislation on the second pillar would be unnecessary and undesirable. Can it simply be confirmed that it is undesirable and that both the AOW and the second pillar are and remain a purely national matter? For 50PLUS, that's the size. Europe, let go of our entire pension system. Shoemaker, stay with your reading. My group would also like to receive an in-depth explanation of the remark in the Eurogroup/Ecofin Council report of 20 and 21 March that the comparative nature of a benchmark allows Member States to address the long-term sustainability of pension systems for public finances in the European context, but that this does not prevent pension schemes from remaining a national matter and not being binding. What exactly is meant by this passage? Does this mean that only weak pension systems are called into question or can strong systems or parts of them be addressed by Member States? That remains a crucial question for us, to which we would like an answer. In short, to talk to the Minister, understanding the question of which country has a financially sustainable pension system and which country does not, is nothing wrong in itself. Insight can indeed be the beginning of a good change in a weak system. But it can also be more and have consequences for strong systems like ours. We want to rule that out completely. Do the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State follow us in that? The last Eurogroup/Ecofin Council discussed pension on the basis of that note. 50PLUS can only conclude that benchmarking can have major consequences, including for our pension system. If we see words and phrases such as 'economic convergence', 'possible necessity' and'size of further reform' in the note, the alarm bells will ring. The last sentence of the European Commission note certainly raised questions: "Which policy outcomes do you envisage for the benchmarking exercise, alongside its feeding the preparation of the country-specific recommendations in the context of the European Semester?" I would like an answer from the Minister. Finally. 50PLUS remains of the opinion, even after the Hoge Raad's judgment, that the difference in VAT treatment of the costs of managing pension funds operating DC and DB schemes respectively results in a completely undesirable and uneven playing field within the Netherlands and also in relation to the surrounding countries. It unnecessarily affects the pension outcome of DB schemes. Is the Minister prepared to work for a level playing field for DC and DB arrangements? Depending on the Minister's response, we are considering tabling a motion on this matter. This dependence on the Minister's replies also applies to the previous issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u11	After the contributions of Mr Snels van GroenLinks and Mr Van Kent of the SP, I will suspend my congratulations. I now give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks. Mr Snels is also making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. "Don't mention the war," said John Cleese in his hilarious Fawlty Towers. You can't talk about the war when you're talking about Europe. And on a day like today, you're thinking, "Don't mention guesthouses." Today we are debating the sustainability of pension systems in the euro area countries. I cannot escape the impression that we are conducting this debate in fear of European interference, when Europe is not about our pension system. I would therefore like to use my maiden speech to emphasise the special and valuable nature of the European Union in these times of uncertainty. And don't worry, I'll come back to the pension systems. "Europe needs a soul," said Robert Schuman in the 1950s when he was at the cradle of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) with Jean Monnet. That European soul has been around for a long time. Look at the street signs in any European city. The streets and squares are named after the European thinkers, the scientists and the politicians of our shared history. The painters, the architects, the philosophers and the writers are at the root of the European soul. And the cemeteries and memorial monuments show the dark sides of our history. Our history is a European history, a book full of beauty, but with pitch black chapters. This history also shows that the borders of the nation state are determined by political struggle and not by an inherently felt community. Catalans don't feel Spanish. Many Scots now want to join the European Union rather than belong to the United Kingdom. And when I go back to my birthplace in Brabant, to Roosendaal, I find that some feel more Belgian there than Hollander. That's what's bothering me myself. But we are all Europeans and we are not secretly making a European nation. Anyone who says that misses the special history of the last 60 years. Look at our burgundy passports. The cover contains two rules: the European Union and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Look at our euro coins. On one side is Europe and on the other side is our King. The nation state and the Union, literally as two sides of the same currency. Look at the flags on the government buildings, parliaments and city halls. The national flag is next to the European flag. That's not a coincidence. That is the special feature of what we have built over the last 60 years: a Union of nation states and a Union of citizens. You are both a proud Dutchman and a recognizable European. This special nature is even greater among the euro area countries which form a monetary union. Exactly here you see the special feature of the European project. We share the euro, but we ourselves are responsible for our pension system. That is not what Europe is about; that is not what other countries are about. That's up to us. But in the European spirit of the ratio, of our curiosity, of acquiring knowledge and sharing knowledge, we, as euro countries, are talking about each other's pension system. That is not so strange, because pensions on our ageing continent are a major asset for the financial resources and we are financially linked through the euro. We all have an interest in ensuring that Member States' public finances are sustainable in the long term. We share the euro, but we have our own pensions. That is true, that will remain and that will be the way Europe works. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm this view. I ask the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to do this. Our own pension system is not bad against other euro area countries in terms of sustainability, according to the comparative report. Does that make the Secretary of State as happy as I am as a new financial spokesman for my group? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is an honour and a great responsibility to be part of Europe as a Member of Parliament in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP Group. Mr Van Kent is also making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. When I joined the SP-Second parliamentary group ten years ago, Fons Luijben was our pension spokesperson. As former director of the Rabobank and financial specialist, his surprise and indignation about the bizarrely low return that pension funds had to rely on. Even in the years that followed, when Paul Ulenbelt had taken over Fons' baton as the spokesman for pensions, this compulsory poor calculation remained at the heart of our criticism. And unfortunately, the rapidly succeeding Cabinets continued to follow that disastrous course. In those years, the financial crisis broke out. At that time, pension assets amounted to over EUR 600 billion. Financial institutions such as banks and insurers went bankrupt or were held up with billions of Community money. But the pension funds stood up proudly. They doubled the assets, that 600 billion, to over 1,300 billion today. Nevertheless, the pension funds, which had been forced to charge themselves poor in those years, had to continue to do so. They had to pretend to achieve returns of less than 3%, but in reality they achieved returns of around 7%. Workers and pensioners were unnecessarily billed for this. If Fons Luijben and Paul Ulenbelt had been listened to then, this could have been prevented. This would have maintained confidence in our pension system and would not have required the reduction of pensions. Looking back, does the Secretary of State think she made a mistake? By the way, Fons Luijben was nicknamed Pension Fons at some point and Paul Ulenbelt was nicknamed Pension Paul. I know I still have a very long way to go, but I hope that my group will give me such a beautiful nickname one day. Trade unions, bosses, employees and pensioners work together to make a supplementary pension possible, an income on retirement on top of the General Old Age Law of Drees. In the case of supplementary pensions, the public authorities have a modest role to play. She may lay down a number of rules, but unfortunately we see that the government sets rules, such as the mandatory poor calculation I was just talking about, which are detrimental to our pensions. But in other ways, too, many parties are lurking at this billion-dollar pot. Proposals have been made to build houses with them. Proposals have been made to provide credit to SMEs. Proposals have been made to achieve environmental objectives with these funds. These are all important things that we must organise together, but which are really not the task of pension funds. Does the Minister agree with the SP? And then there is the third important threat: Europe's involvement in our pensions. Despite the fact that the majority of the previous House of Representatives was against European interference, the eurogroup comes up with an investigation. At first glance, there is no problem for the Netherlands. On all indicators, the Netherlands is well above average or we are even at the top. But to know that, of course, we did not need a European study at all, because we all know that the Netherlands has the second best pension system in the world. This study was therefore not only unnecessary, but also undesirable as far as we are concerned, because the danger of such investigations lies in the future. On the basis of the results, countries are asked to come up with ideas on changes to their rules. In practice, the European Commission will use this to impose new dictations from Brussels or, in good Dutch: Europe will interfere with our pensions. In consultation with his colleagues, the Minister said that pensions remain a national issue and that the investigation only provides insight into how good changes can be made. I'd like to get more clarity from the Minister. Is it true that countries do not have to follow up this investigation in any way, yes or no? Everyone can look at our pension system and admire this pearl of social security. But everyone has to keep their hands off it. Careful cleaning can be done if necessary. To demolish solidarity, as proposed by the ESC, or to sit in the chair of bosses, trade unions or pensioners, is taboo for the SP. The money is not from the government, not from politicians and certainly not from Europe. It's the hard-earned pennies of workers and pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'm suspending the meeting to give you the opportunity to congratulate the new Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u16	Let's move on. These are great moments when all those colleagues stay here to congratulate those newcomers! Mr. Tony van Dijck knows the way. He doesn't have to make a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u17	And he knows those congratulations on his belly too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u18	No. Congratulations on my part are of course there for Mr Van Rooijen, a good story, and Mr Snels, a pity about the content but it was, honestly, nicely brought. And Mr Van Kent has also surprised me gladly, both with the presentation and with the content. Mr. Chairman. Netherlands pension country! The Netherlands has a pension fund of 1,400 billion, the largest pension fund in Europe. 70% of all pension money put aside in Europe is in the Netherlands. So we have to make sure it's not wasted. My first question to the Minister and to the Secretary of State is: if the Netherlands has such a large pension fund then why should the longest of all Member States be employed in the Netherlands and why do the Dutch retire last? Why is the Netherlands the largest net contributor? That the Netherlands is Europe's working horse, we knew that, but we must be careful not to become Europe's milk cow too, because Europe cannot resist it. The train's going on and on. We will not rest until everything is decided in Brussels. The federal union is the dream of every europhile. Member States are still sovereign in the field of taxation and pensions. So what does Europe do? What are they doing in Brussels? They're benchmarking. Who could be against that? There will be a benchmark on the marginal tax burden and a study on the fiscal sustainability of pension systems. But why does the EU have to do that? Each country can examine the sustainability of its system independently, if one so wishes. It sounds so innocent: an investigation into the differences to learn from each other. Who could be against that? And then they point out the dangers. Then we'll have the advice. Then you're gonna go to hell. The pressure is increasing. Then subtle recommendations are made in the European Semester and finally there are threats of fines and abstinence from European subsidies. Because you're dealing with macroeconomic imbalances. And you can't! Juncker said it before: you try something, see what happens and if the shit doesn't break out, you go one step further. One step at a time, you're building a federal union. The Junckers of this world dream of a retirement union. That would be wonderful, an old age provision for every European. They see it all in Brussels, as well as European taxes, the Eurobonds and the CCCTB. The plans are already in place and, believe me, it's all gonna happen. The EU has been looking forward to our pensions for a long time and is looking forward to that big pot of 1,400 billion. First, the IORP II directive with steam and boiling water rushed through the Chamber and now an investigation into its sustainability. The PVV does not see anything in all these EU studies, because in the end there is only one goal: the pension union in the united states of Europe. Don't fall for it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Kent and Mr Snels. Gentlemen all, but they have a lot of ladies ahead of them for their maiden speeches. It's always a good time to catch up. They were also beautiful maiden speeches. Beautiful passionate maiden speeches! Today we are talking about pensions and Europe. And Europe is not about that. Mr Snels said it too. That's what the Netherlands is about. There is, however, a great debate ahead, which will undoubtedly also be on the formation table. How do we keep our pension system future-proof? How do we ensure that young and old will continue to receive pension in the future? And how do we ensure that the support base under pensions and pension systems remains in the Netherlands? I say to Mr Van Kent that our system is one of the best systems in the world. For example, how do we ensure thatzzp'ers build up a decent pension? It's all about national government issues. Should it not be discussed at European level? That is a bit the reason for this debate, which has requested 50PLUS. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this is okay. There is nothing wrong with European countries, all of which are suffering from an ageing population, with, in the Netherlands in particular,zzp'ers who do not build a pension and with affordability under pressure, looking at each other to see what they can learn from each other. There's been some discussion here about the underlying documents that wouldn't have been sent to the Chamber. We have all received the pieces that have been submitted to the euro group. An inventory has been made of the main problems and of what the countries can learn from each other. That's what they're talking about. The PvdA Group doesn't think anything wrong with that. That something would be going on there, the PvdA Group does not recognize. We believe it is important not only to look at financial rigour, however important it is, but also to look at adequate pension provision for Europeans. For everyone. Fortunately, poverty among older people in the Netherlands is relatively low due to our relatively high public pension provision. They're important criteria. But when I read the pieces well, I noticed that they were already well taken into account. It wasn't just a financial story. In short, it is an important subject. National governments should deal with it, as should housing corporations in relation to the PvdA Group. Ministers discussed the whole breadth of the pension system in the Eurogroup. I hope they have learned lessons from that. I would like to hear from the cabinet what lessons they have learned and what benefits they are taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating colleagues Snels, Van Kent and Van Rooijen warmly on their maiden speech. With one I could identify myself a little more than with the other, but that did not detract from the passion and conviction with which all three speeches were given. I was particularly excited to be at Mr Snels' maiden speech, because we have some common footsteps in a work history, long, long ago, in a galaxy far from here. Or not so far from here, I should say. Mr Snel's words about the importance of European cooperation and the reason why it is good to look at each other's systems in Europe have been taken from my heart. Mr Nijboer also spoke such words. It seems very sensible to me. Mr Van Kent's maiden speech raised only one question to me: are his words consistent with those of Mr Ulenbelt, or has he always secretly written the texts of Mr Ulenbelt? The truth must be somewhere in the middle. Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Rooijen were both concerned. Firstly, Europe is now going to investigate something and where is it going? Secondly, we know how things are going; in the end, Europe will decide for us. The remaining two minutes 52 of my speaking time I would like to use to make a modest attempt to remove these concerns. I would like to take back these two colleagues and, by the way, Mr Van Dijck. Mr Van Rooijen said that alarm bells are going to ring because Europe is now going to investigate things. Mr Van Kent said: now come the dictatorships. I can reassure them, because this is not new at all. The eurogroup is talking about these plans now, but that is not the first time. For years, staff at European level, especially in the corner of finance ministers, have all been carrying out research into the sustainability of public finances. What does ageing mean for healthcare expenditure, but also for pension expenditure? How do we ensure that pensions in the countries are affordable? How do we ensure that in the countries there is good pension provision? Mr Nijboer was right to point this out. For example, in countries such as Poland, Estonia and Greece pensions are not high on average. So that's been happening for a long time. I admit, it hasn't happened since Mr Van Rooijen was Secretary of State for Finance. Not that long, but I have looked it back, and studies are being carried out since the beginning of the 2000s. I will confess that I myself have been there at some point, as an official. With this explanation, I think I can remove the first fear that Europe is suddenly going to do something. The second fear was that if Europe does it, there will be a European dictatorship in no time. However, what I have just said shows that this type of conversation has been going on for 16 years. Fortunately, Europe has never done anything to oblige us to do something about our system during these 16 years. What do I say? There are sometimes recommendations and suggestions but countries are about their own system. So this isn't new. This is logical within the EU and within the euro area and has been happening for 16 years. It's been good for 16 years. That is why I am confident that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u21	First of all, thank you for the kind words that were made to me and my two colleagues at the beginning. I thought in my speech I didn't say there were dictations. You have to be careful: if you are going to mix spokesmen, it is not always quite clear who said what, except of course for the good listeners, which I also charge myself to. But dictatorships are not the issue. Nor did the word "decide" appear in my text. I didn't even mention the word "danger." Others did, by the way, and I understand that. The fact that you say it has been going on for a long time does not, of course, mean that it has been going on for a long time. I note that this process of common principles, which is now leading to this benchmarking, is only taking place from 2015. So it's very recent. I therefore think that Mr Van Weyenberg is not doing full justice to history by saying that this has been going on for a long time. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Van Rooijen said: 'The Commission will investigate this and then the alarm bells will ring. Are you sure it's that noncommittal? Isn't there going to be any interference?" Those were the words of Mr Van Rooijen. Mr Van Kent said that if we are not careful, dictatorships will now come. I've heard the word "dictatations." It just didn't come from Mr Van Rooijen; let's be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u23	But you have nothing against alarms, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u24	No, no, but if an alarm rings, I get worried. I also supported this debate when you asked for it because earlier, in the debate on EIOPA and the IORP Directive, I felt that unjustified fears sometimes continued to smolder for a long time. I think it is very sensible and important to be public about what Europe does and does not do. Europe is not about setting up our system. That was true, that is true and that remains true as far as D66 is concerned. I don't think anyone has a different opinion on that either. It is true that this Eurogroup discussion was special, with principles. However, we have had broad economic policy guidelines for decades, which contain recommendations. For example, I have one here from 2013, addressed to the Netherlands, to address the sustainability of the pension system. In that sense, it is not new. It's been happening a long time. It is good to see that Europe is going to be able to take over our pension or to see that it is not right. It wasn't, it's not, and it won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u25	Very briefly. If we are going to talk about the sustainability of our pension system, from Europe, but also from the Netherlands, think of the President of the Netherlands Bank, we must be very careful. We even question the wordings that our President uses, or even more often, and increasingly. Not only Europe, but also our President himself says that our pension system is unsustainable. We will be discussing this in greater detail in the near future, but I would like to give a warning to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr Van Rooijen is aware that the D66 Group would like to see the pension system maintained broadly. We have a relatively sustainable system in financial terms through, for example, the increase in the AOW age. I know that Mr Van Rooijen's party wants to reverse it, but all the studies show that this increase is one of the reasons why, when it comes to the AOW, we can look forward with confidence to the future in the financial field. On labour market developments, the need for more choices and the fact that the second pillar of the current pension system, that of supplementary pensions, disappoints many participants in relation to the promises made, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen. I'm just drawing a slightly different conclusion about a wise solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u27	I can't handle the myths of the urophils in this house. They say that Europe is not about our pensions. You have to tell the Greeks! The Greeks are given one dictation after another from Europe, from Brussels and from the IMF, which instructs them to do something about their unsustainable pension system. So don't tell me that Europe doesn't give dictates to Member States. The Greek situation is an example of how one dictatorship is imposed after another. The same applies to all those Member States in the corrective arm that receive a recommendation to increase their retirement age. If they don't, they'll get a fine from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u28	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u29	So don't pretend that the Netherlands and every Member State is sovereign when it comes to its pension system. Brussels has been interfering with these pension systems for years and has dictated that retirement ages should be raised and that pension benefits should be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. Mr. van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u31	Now it's really breaking my clog. Mr Van Dijck is right to be at the front if the French do not comply with the budgetary rules. We are transferring a great deal of money to the Greeks through aid packages and in return we are asking them to put their public finances in order. Apparently, Mr Van Dijck says: just transfer the money without making any conditions. We are not getting such a package of support, Mr Van Dijck! Luckily, we don't need that. It seems that Mr Van Dijck thinks that we should not make demands on a package of aid to the Greeks. I think that is a remarkable twist of the PVV Group. I wouldn't be in favour of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u32	If the Greeks had their own currency, then we would be in favour of the Greeks being allowed to retire for 30 years as far as I am concerned. I don't care! But because of the fact that they have the euro, we must help with packages of aid. The same applies to the French. The French retire at 60 years. I'm gonna let them retire at 50 years. I do not care, but because they are in the same currency union, we must support them and so we must dictate them from Brussels. I am concerned with the fact that you pretend that Brussels does not dictate anything in the area of pension systems, while Brussels does nothing in the area of currency union other than issuing dictatorships that determine what countries should do to keep pension systems sustainable. Do you agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u33	I would advise Mr Van Dijck to read this piece of speech again. Then he will come to the conclusion that he is particularly inconsistent. Mr Van Dijck wants to get out of the euro. It's okay. I am totally against that and D66 is totally against it, but it is a respectable position. Nevertheless, Mr Van Dijck will agree with me that we are in it now. We are transferring billions to Greece in the form of a support package. Of course we make demands! Apparently, Mr Van Dijck does not want to do that; I think that is very unwise. With the French, we're in one coin. Mr Van Dijck does not want that, but he does. When you see that the behavior in one country has consequences for another, isn't that a reason to sit down together? There is no European law that says anything about the French pension system or the Dutch pension system. So Mr Van Dijck simply has to stop scaring. When you step out of the euro, you get a lot of misery in the Netherlands, but then you have nothing to do with each other, as Mr Van Dijck says. But we're in it together now. Then I think it's very good to talk to each other about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u34	It's not about us talking to each other. We are in the currency union. You must not pretend that Brussels does not dictate pension systems. They do affect the currency union, the sustainability, the debt and so on. Brussels is therefore interfering with our pension system. If the Netherlands decides tomorrow that we will all retire by 50 and that we will increase VAT to finance that, Brussels will interfere. Brussels will say: we are not going to do that, the Netherlands. That's my point. You pretend that we are sovereign, but we are not sovereign as long as we are in that currency union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u35	I will resist the temptation to hold a major debate on Europe with Mr Van Dijck, no matter how tempting that perspective may be. This is, of course, nonsense: as if we get sovereignty, if we try to do something against Russia on our own, against Trump et cetera. That's total quatsch. We're in that currency union. Mr Van Dijck must give me one example in which European officials and European councils have dictated what the ABP pension looks like. There is no such thing, Mr Van Dijck. You know what I'm talking about. Stop scaring people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u37	That brings me to the conclusion that this debate can, above all, remove the misunderstanding that Europe is about our pensions. That's not true. The misunderstanding can be overcome that Europe is now suddenly having talks in which countries compare systems and try to learn lessons from them. It is not new that sums are being made or pension systems are financially sustainable and that they are adequate, I say again in the direction of Mr Nijboer. This has been happening for a long time; this has been happening for 15 years. That seems extremely sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Snels and Mr Van Kent. Congratulations on your maiden speech in this house. I wish you every success and pleasure in the debates we have here. It is a privilege; I have been allowed to do so for a number of years now. I wish you every success. The Netherlands has one of the best pension systems in the world. That is important, because people have worked hard for years and saved up for their retirement. People want to be able to enjoy old age after they have retired, but that is not the case in all countries. Within Europe, there are still plenty of countries where adequate pension provision is not normal. A poorly funded pension system, under-age retirement or a mismatch between the number of pensioners and the number of workers can pose a major financial risk to the budget of a Member State. Due to the interconnectedness of the euro area, this type of risk on Member State budgets is a common concern. With a study of the fiscal sustainability of the different pension systems, Finance Ministers aim to introduce a benchmark comparing the pension system of an individual Member State with the best performing countries in the euro area. Pensions are a national competence. The VVD doesn't want to interfere with that. The introduction of a benchmark should give those countries at risk a better understanding of the financial risks. They can learn from other countries. However, as far as the VVD is concerned, it should not lead to new policies or additional regulations. I therefore have a number of questions. Can the Minister state the status of this benchmark? Has this benchmark been decided yet? In this case, can the Minister confirm that the introduction of the benchmark will not have any impact on pensions: not on Dutch pensions, but also on pensions of other Member States, not now and not in the future? A benchmark that makes it clear to Member States where the financial risks lie; you cannot really oppose that. Member States need to have their housekeeping books in order and address public debt. If a benchmark helps to address Member States and demonstrate good practice, it can make a positive contribution, all the more so because a number of years ago the Stability and Growth Pact agreed to more stringent and proactive monitoring. We have different pension systems in the euro area. For example, a number of countries have a state-funded pension system. How, for example, can you compare this with the Dutch system? My question to the Minister is whether this benchmark is making unnecessary regulations, which many people are busy with and which can sooner or later lead to additional regulation, or whether it really has added value. If that is the case, my question to him is how the benchmark deals with the differences between pension systems. An advantage of a good benchmark is that Member States can address each other and encourage each other to review their pension systems. This is particularly important in the context of the sustainability of public finances. Talk to each other, but don't prescribe the law. Pensions are and remain a national matter for the VVD. The Netherlands has the second best pension system in the world. Over the past period, we have taken a number of necessary measures to keep the system sustainable in the longer term. I ask the Minister whether the Netherlands can be seen as one of the best performing countries in this benchmark. It is to be commended if other countries want to measure their pension system with that of the Netherlands. The Netherlands has taken a number of important steps, such as longer working and linking the AOW to life expectancy. The reform of the pension system has also started in order to make it more compatible with the current labour market. There is nothing against more information and understanding the possible consequences of policy choices. After all, we have seen that has just been dealt with in an interrupting debate where, for example, lowering the retirement age, as France intended, can lead. This is not only bad for France, but also a risk to stability in Europe. The VVD is critical. We have seen that the European Commission is also working on other plans, such as the Personal European Pension Plans. This is a regulation on the European framework for personal pension products. A formal Commission proposal is expected in June. The VVD is against a European framework. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State in what way they are taking up this dossier. Although at first glance it is a voluntary product, it cannot count on the support of the VVD. I would like to hear confirmation from the directors that they consider pensions to be a national matter and therefore do not consider this development appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u39	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, who speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. What a wonderful time, that you can make your maiden speech about pensions in Europe, that nine people will participate in a debate and that you will receive beautiful contributions from the new colleagues Van Rooijen, Van Kent and Snels. Those times were different here when we talked about Europe and pensions. The euro area ministers discussed the sustainability of our pension system in the eurogroup. For this purpose, a report comparing systems, in particular the first pillar, has been prepared. That is an interesting report and it is a good thing that it is being discussed. It concerns public pension systems and their sustainability has a direct impact on the stability of the euro area countries. The report is not about the private systems, and that is also good news. It is interesting to see that the Netherlands has one of the relatively highest replacement rates, although this includes the second pillar. The Netherlands has the lowest proportion of relative poverty among pensioners in all euro area countries. The Netherlands has the highest rate of participation in the labour market for men between 55 and 65 and also for women the Netherlands is well above the European average. The relatively highest publicly funded pensions are in Greece, Cyprus, Spain and Portugal. Let that be just four countries receiving emergency aid from the European funds. This also shows that it is best to have this kind of measure and to make comparisons. We also suspect that this was not the primary reason for 50PLUS to request a debate, to show how good it is for us. On behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the eurogroup is looking at the current and future sustainability of pension and healthcare systems. If he did not, the Stability and Growth Pact would really be a wash-up. Perhaps you wonder why I have signed up for this debate, Mr President. So much for the good news, but I've got two minutes left. This has to do with the other European involvement in our pension system, namely our second pillar. You know my opposition to the IORP II directive. As a result, Dutch pension funds can easily move abroad because the supervision there, we will say, is "relaxter." In the meantime, Dutch participants must be required to participate, all within the framework of the free market. That is not really desirable, because if you bring your pension under Belgian or Cypriot supervision, then the Belgian or Cypriot Lower House can change the supervision and the Dutch electorate has nothing to say about it. And why would your legal capacity of about 1,400 billion euros be placed somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u41	By the way, the Netherlands Bank said about this directive that it would make it easier for it to monitor. But can Mr Omtzigt confirm that this directive, which he is not so critical of for the first time, has been supported by the European CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u42	I am simply talking about the position we have taken here. I can confirm everything Mr Van Weyenberg says, but I can also confirm that he is completely wrong about DNB. DNB can only be tested on the basis of the criteria set out in the directive, whereas until now we have had complete freedom of trade to check on the matters that we considered important here. We're losing that. In addition, the D66 Group did not find it difficult to agree to a directive of 100 pages within 24 hours of the publication of the text here. Even if you consider this desirable, I find this way of dealing with the pension system reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think we have just seen these pieces neatly, but that is all very well; Mr Omtzigt is bringing things up now. I asked two questions. The first was: has the Dutch Bank even issued a statement confirming that it can supervise, yes or no? The second question confirmed Mr Omtzigt, which puts some criticisms somewhat in perspective; the European CDA Group considered this directive to be a step forward and supported it, just like the D66 Group. That's relevant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u44	The Netherlands Bank has said that it could test on three points and not on other points. If the conditions of the directive are met, namely a balanced balance of interests, then the money can disappear. Then the Dutch supervisor can never intervene again. That's very stupid. That seems very undesirable to me too. And if Mr Van Weyenberg says he read it, then I don't believe it, because we got that piece at eight o'clock in the evening and the next day, at one o'clock in the afternoon, everyone here agreed. There was no opportunity to hold any hearing before voting on the basis of a text. Mr Van Weyenberg cannot believe that D stands for Democrats that fits in with a democratic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u45	I think this discussion has been held before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u46	It's been fed before, Mr. Chairman. You remembered that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u47	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. This issue has been discussed in the Chamber for some time now. People from the Ministry have been giving us technical briefings, but that's not the point. I think it is all right that Mr Omtzigt brings that up, so that we can repeat that debate. My observation was that DNB said it had more instruments than it did to adapt this directive and that the European CDA Group simply supported it. I leave the rest on Mr Omtzigt's behalf, but that puts the content of some images in a slightly different perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u48	The D66 Group has in no way denied that it has not seen any text before that time, none at all. There has been a technical briefing which was confidential, in which no texts have been shared with Parliament and which has approved what we are doing with the 1,400 billion pension system. The people in the Chamber who believe that this is a responsible way of dealing with our democratic rights are completely wrong. It is not for nothing that you, Chairman, had a conversation with the government about how undesirable that was. I'm still waiting with great interest for what comes out of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u49	I did not want to interrupt the first part of Mr Omtzigt's speech before he switched to private pensions. I have one more question for him that I asked. Does he think that the European Commission's note is clear as to whether it is just about the AOW in the various countries or also about supplementary pensions or even both in conjunction? I myself think so, but I am curious about his opinion, and I have also asked the directors that this note contains elements in a number of points which do refer to supplementary pensions and not to the pay-as-you-go system, for example the columns in Table 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u50	There are indeed two points in the note about supplementary pensions. It looks at the poverty of the elderly. You want a complete picture of that. If you want to see how the elderly are doing, it is not unreasonable in itself if you look at the situation in the second pillar. I think that's a relevant indicator. If Mr Van Rooijen asks me about what European developments in the pension system I am very concerned about, I call the IORP Directive. I agree with what Mrs Lodder says about a pan-European market for personal pension products. It is not going to work at all, because we have totally different ways of taxation. The SP knows all about that. Do you tax the inlay, during the build-up, some kind of box 3, or when it is removed? Is that a cross-border arrangement? It's not gonna work, but it's also a question of whether it's desirable. I consider these things to be far more threatening for our system than a benchmark once in a while. I also mentioned the healthcare system. If you want some account to be taken of the fact that finances need to be sustainable not only today but also in five years' time, there is nothing wrong with looking at pension and healthcare systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u51	Does Mr Omtzig agree with me that we are both asking the administrators that the European Commission's note of 13 March is primarily, and almost exclusively, about the AOW and the pay-as-you-go system in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yeah, it's primarily about the pay-as-you-go system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u53	So that's what we're asking the rulers. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt's comment on supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u55	Before Mr Van Weyenberg began to speak, I said that it was undesirable to place the pension in Belgian or Cypriot jurisdictions under the IORP Directive. Firstly, you get arbitration between countries because you want to accommodate pensions in countries where you think supervision is the most relaxed. You come home from a cold carnival when things go south. Secondly, it will no longer be part of the Dutch democratic system. The supervision is determined by a parliament for which you do not have the right to vote. I find that very undesirable. Let me give you an example. What if there is another financial crisis in Cyprus and Cyprus has to expropriate part of its savings and impose a one-off tax, which it has de facto done, do you think that Cyprus, which imposes only on savings products and that pension products, which are, in any case, in foreign hands, will pass on to such a one-off tax? If you are really naive, I ask the people who agree. I'm not. That is what we would do here if we were in a reverse situation. This was stupid. I would like an overview of the state of transfer abroad. I also agree with the questions on the DB/DC system and the VAT levy. Why are we the only exception in Europe? And what country does that? I come to the ECB and the great effect on pensions. I understand that we will soon get the outcome of the Schouten motion, which is how much it really costs. We did not receive this background document until after the end of the Council. At the meeting, the Minister promised that he would see if we could get the documents in advance, so that we could have sent another message. Perhaps I found this less necessary, but the question is of course still relevant. How can we see these things before they are discussed in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We need a two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. The summary of my answer is: yes, national governments are all about their pension systems. And if it is up to the Dutch cabinet, it will remain that way. And yes, we are in a monetary union together and have committed ourselves to putting our budgets in order in the short term and keeping them in order in the long term. The Eurogroup is an informal meeting of finance ministers, who, in preparation for Ecofin, talk to each other in a number of formal areas, including budgets and budgetary policies, but also informally discuss issues relevant to them. We have discussions, inspired by myself, which lead to benchmarks. Why do we do that? They are always subject to macroeconomic policy and therefore to budgetary policy. In doing so, we are looking at the longer-term sustainability of public finances. The pension system is, of course, a major part of this. We have this type of discussion about benchmarks at regular intervals. We have talked about the wedge, the tax burden on labour, which is very high in the euro area. We also discussed the investment climate. What are the obstacles to more and higher investment in the euro area? We have also talked about insolvency legislation, bankruptcy legislation. It is very important when an economy needs to restructure and it is certainly important for banks. We talked about the quality of public spending. How can you achieve more with the public investments we make? And yes, we also talked about pension systems. This is primarily about the first pillar, as I say in reply to Mr Van Rooijen's first question. He had already noticed that himself; that is correct. Mr Omtzigt added that a number of sub-indicators included the second pillar pension, for example in relation to poverty among the elderly and the replacement rate. To what extent do people go backwards when they retire from work to retirement? How much money do they have in relation to their average income? Some of these sub-indicators therefore include the second pillar pension. That is right and gives a good insight. Let me first say something about the trial. We always deal with these issues in the eurogroup in three rounds. We begin with an exploratory discussion, in which some ministers tell us what they are up against and what their experiences are in the area of reform. In the second round we come to a number of general principles. What does a long-term sustainable pension system have to comply with? Only in the third round will we arrive at a benchmark. That benchmark was made by the Commission at our request. To all those who fear that the Commission has taken power here, I say the following. We have asked the Commission to develop, for us, the Finance Ministers, who are intergovernmental and informal in the Eurogroup, an instrument that will enable us to see even better how well we are doing, individually. That could help us. That instrument has now been developed. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly pointed out that the Ageing Report has been produced in Brussels for many years. In this Ageing Report, the Commission will present this benchmark every three years, with these indicators for the long-term sustainability of public finances and the impact of pension systems on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Minister says that we need not be afraid, because the Eurogroup itself asked the Commission. So we should not be afraid of the European Commission either. Is there not a danger that the European Commission, which gives you a finger with it, will take more than one finger later because it may be giving it a greater degree of direction than perhaps the Eurogroup initially thought desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u59	Words like "fear," "bang," etcetera, I try to avoid, because I don't look at them that way at all. All I said was that it was not a cloaked hold of power from the Commission that was suddenly going to interfere with pension systems. She'll do it at our request. And no, I am not concerned that this will lead to this real coup d'état, because the Commission cannot simply give itself powers. The Commission has powers in budgetary policy and in the enforcement of budgetary rules. For this, however, we first drew up a pact and European legislation setting out the competence of the European Commission. There is no such competence in the area of pensions. Nor is there any urge in the Eurogroup to create this competence at European level. Interestingly, the critical debate currently taking place in the Netherlands about what Europe is all involved in, sometimes it is quite right for Europe to interfere with something, but sometimes we do not want it to be conducted at all in the euro group. The Dutch representative there is not the only one who says that this remains a national competence. There is therefore no such power with the Commission, nor will there be any such power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u60	I thank the Minister for his reply. But is it not possible for the Minister to note that I am being cautious; we are also learning here from administrators, I am also learning that with the ageing report, with that process repeated every three years, the European Commission is getting closer to the playing field than would really be desirable? The Minister says that the European Commission has no powers here. Still, it looks like she's getting into the field from the reserve bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u61	No, no, no. The distribution of roles in the euro group is really a different one on these issues. The Commission supports the work of the Eurogroup. The Eurogroup may sometimes ask: could you do a study on this? Or: what are the countries actually doing in this area? Then the Commission agrees to this and a report is produced somewhere in the Commission's services. We have now developed a benchmark. Once every three years, they're gonna make a report like this. They really do that on our initiative, at our request. The only thing the Commission does in the discussion is to present the report. She doesn't say after it: now this has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u62	No, no, no, Mr. Van Rooijen. You can't interrupt anymore. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u63	We're keeping our autonomy. This is not only desirable in the Netherlands. This is emphasised by many Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u64	For 15 years there has been no indication of this either. Those reports have been made for over a decade. Perhaps it is still reassuring for Mr Van Rooijen I am taking advantage of this interruption a little bit; I am aware of that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u65	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u66	... over the last 15 years or the Commission has been very ineffective in the search for the competences that Mr Van Rooijen fears or has not been looking for at all. The latter is a much more likely scenario. These reports, I believe, have been produced since 2002 or 2003 with the support of the Commission services, and in those 15 years I have never seen hostile take-over, the hostile takeover, which Mr Van Rooijen is a little afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u67	That was a reaction to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u68	We're not doing it for nothing. It does, however, touch on the longer-term financial sustainability of budgets. There are also similar studies, for example from the OECD. The IMF makes country reports showing the state of the pension system or health care system. There are all kinds of international organisations that make reports. So it's just a question of whether you want to read it and whether you want to use it. The purpose of this report is to make it comparable in the euro area, so that countries realize, should they not have done so yet, that there is a big problem with it and so that we in the eurogroup discuss questions like: what can we do about it, what are we doing, what can we learn from others? One of the things that I may have to say in the last ten years, perhaps, is that five years or somewhere in between have taken place in many euro area countries, is raising the retirement age, because it is possible, but also because it contributes greatly to the long-term sustainability of the pension system. It is not because the European Commission has said: you will do so. No, it's because it improves financial sustainability in the longer term. Everyone does it their own way. Some countries do it too soon or too late, too soon or too slowly. You can all argue about that. But it does happen. It encourages improvements if it is good, so that there is also a longer-term pension system and less poverty among the elderly. I think that's it. Perhaps there are some loose points on this subject. The question is how the benchmark deals with differences between countries with a state pension and countries with private pension funds. As has been said, public pensions, which are financed from the budget, are looked at in particular. The government is responsible for this. But that too is very different from one country to another, as I say to Mr Van Rooijen. In the Netherlands, it is through the AOW and in other countries, for example, it is through private operators, but that is still slightly different from the second pillar, which is really financed entirely outside the government in the Netherlands and is also managed. I have now answered the questions on this subject. So it can be really fast, but maybe I forgot things. Questions have also been asked about the personal European pension product. The VVD already says it is against, but we do not yet have a proposal from the Commission. The Netherlands is certainly critical of this. We need to focus on the Dutch interest. One important thing is that it does not affect our system and it does not affect our system or the way in which we handle pension products. In the consultation, which was sent to the Chamber at the end of last year, we also expressed reservations about the personal pension product. We have indicated that this should not affect labour-conditional second pillar pensions or tax facilitation. We are achieving noises that the Commission now seems to be focusing on a third pillar product that does not touch these aspects and that will be voluntary. Still, we will look critically at it, along the lines also mentioned by the members of the Chamber, namely: what does it add, is it in the interest of the participant and is it in the interest of the Netherlands? The only positive aspect that we can discover is that it may help other countries to save their residents more for their retirement. Of course, they could also regulate this properly at national level, but a European standard system might help them to do so. This also affects the issue we are discussing today: public finances and social systems and their sustainability. I therefore propose that we wait for the proposal and then further determine the critical position of the Netherlands, tighten it up and make it known. I have another question here about the ruling of the Supreme Court on VAT on DB and DC schemes, i.e. "Defined Benefit" and "Defined Contribution" schemes. The judgment of the Supreme Court confirms the line that asset management services implementing defined benefit pension funds pension schemes are not exempt from VAT. According to the Supreme Court, these arrangements lack an investment risk of sufficient importance. Therefore, the argument of unequal treatment of DB and DC schemes does not apply to VAT, as the schemes are not comparable in tax terms. That's the verdict of the Supreme Court. The Oomen-Ruijten c.s. motion which has been adopted by the First Chamber, is based on that false assumption that they are totally comparable and should therefore be treated equally. For a review to remove the distinction between these arrangements, the cabinet sees no reason at this time, but no possibility either. Discussions with the European Commission have shown us that the Commission is following the interpretation of the Supreme Court on this point. I did ask the Commission to pay attention to maintaining the level playing field in Europe. This means that all Member States must act in accordance with the VAT Directive. The Commission has indicated that it has not received complaints from pension funds or others that there would be no level playing field, but it is, of course, free for interested parties to submit that information to the Commission. The Commission has taken advantage of the discussion we have had with it to raise the issue in the VAT Committee. That is the committee of Member States in which implementation questions are addressed and in which other Member States can be addressed at that level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr Omtzigt pointed out that the Netherlands is actually the only country to apply this VAT. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to comment on the black and white story, which we think is too pronounced, between Defended Benefit and Defended Contribution. In the past, Defended Benefit was a hard claim. At present, employers' contributions are lacking. In the past, they helped ensure that these benefits remained legally intact. In addition, there were discount mechanisms. That is no longer a last resort, it is actually a steering tool. Doesn't that make the difference between DB and DC much more volatile? Does DB increasingly go in the direction of DC and is this cardinal difference, namely whether or not VAT, no longer justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u70	It is justified, however, as long as there is an investment risk of sufficient significance. That is, of course, weighted in the case law that is now before us. What is "a sufficient investment risk'? If Mr Van Rooijen believes that a purely defined benefit, knowing with certainty what will come out of it, does not exist anymore, then all of this now falls under the heading of'sufficient investment risk'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u71	One final question, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think this is a bit of a weird reasoning. If I try to explain that Defined Benefit is not so black in relation to the DC regulations, the Minister immediately says: then we should say that the DB regime is a DC regime. That was not the point of my speech. I just wanted to say that the 97.5% of the Pension Act no longer provides that certainty, which was actually guaranteed in the Pension Act at the time. That's because the deposits are no longer there and because there are massive discounts. The Minister and the Secretary of State will remember that last May 10 million Dutch people, working and no longer working, threatened to be greatly reduced. There is therefore a major investment risk, including for the DB participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u73	I didn't hear a question. There's a ruling from the Supreme Court. It sets out as a criterion and confirms that there must be an investment risk of sufficient significance. That's the criterion. Next, Mr Van Rooijen says: that is really always on the agenda. Then I say, if so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u74	My question was whether the Minister acknowledges that the DB scheme is now changing its character in relation to the Pension Act of 2006, very gradually, but clearly. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u75	Yeah, so you're saying... Sorry, Chairman. It is said that Defended Benefit is now also associated with a high investment risk. So it falls under the criterion confirmed by the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u76	I would like to build on what Mr Van Rooijen rightly says. There is a good argument that there was no material investment risk in DB funds until 2008. The worst thing that happened was that a pension wasn't indexed for a year. Very annoying, but that's it. But in recent years, some pensions have been cut by 10% to 15% because of falling investments and interest rates. Is that an investment risk according to the Minister? So I'm not asking him to look at what the Supreme Court did, because he looked at something like five or six years ago. I'm asking the Minister to look at this moment. Does the government agree that the participants in the DB scheme with the discounts currently bear a significant investment risk or do they have a guaranteed pension? If that is the case, then we have had a lot of debates here for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u77	This case is about asset management services. They provide services to pension funds. It concerns the category of asset management services that are implemented by defined benefit pension schemes. These are not exempt from VAT. And yes, the Supreme Court has a clear judgment on that. It confirmed this, because this scheme lacks an investment risk of sufficient importance. You're saying that's true. It's not true anymore. But I didn't read that in the judgment of the Supreme Court. You think that the various regulations are tax comparable, so all should be exempt from VAT, but that is not the judgment of the Supreme Court and that is not our opinion either. They are therefore not comparable for tax purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u78	Nor was the Supreme Court asked to say what he thought of pension funds today. The Supreme Court was asked to decide whether there was sufficient risk in the situation of a year or six ago and there was no such risk. There is now a much greater risk, because people are regularly cut short, and so I ask the Minister of Finance whether the pension funds currently bear an investment risk of some magnitude, namely reductions of 10%, or whether they are not currently carrying an investment risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u79	The system has not changed substantially. Of course, the fact that discounts have occurred in recent years is not a decisive argument. It is a question of whether the system behind the schemes means that they must be treated equally or equally. The opinion of me, the European Commission and the Supreme Court is that this distinction should not only be made but should be made. They're not fiscally comparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u80	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u81	Then my clog breaks, but then I ask another question. Can you call me one other country in the Union, one other country, where, on the basis of this directive, the Tax Administration applies VAT to pension funds or similar institutions? I only need to know one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u82	I don't have that list ready right now, but it doesn't matter. We have called on the Commission to ensure that if it believes that this is the right interpretation, it must call on other Member States to maintain the level playing field. The Commission has undertaken to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think the minister was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes, I'll leave the issue of IORP to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u85	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to thank all the honourable Members who have spoken, and in particular the three who made their maiden speech, two of whom I knew a little bit in the context of this dossier, sometimes a little too much. So I like that. It is a renewed acquaintance and I look forward to what will follow in the coming weeks, perhaps months. I have not really been asked so many supplementary questions. Mr Snels of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asked whether I also think it is a great good thing that the sustainability looks positive. It will surprise no one that I answer yes, because if you look worldwide, we are in the fortunate circumstance that the Dutch system is the second in the world. It's not gonna happen on its own. In recent years too, we have often worked on the rules of the game. The age of AOW has been increased and governance and communication have also improved. In short, we will of course continue to perfect the system. I assume that, yes, how do you say that in the bosom of the social partners I do not know if they have a bosom, and to what extent they can improve a second pillar pension is being continued. I hope that they will come forward with an opinion on this in the near future. Mr Van Kent asked me, and in that I recognize a little Pension Paycheck, whether perhaps I have made a mistake over the past few years in the context of the calculation rate. Of course, we have talked about this many times already, because some parties in this house are very keen to see that interest rate adjusted. It will not surprise the Chamber that I remain consistent in this too. The Central Planning Bureau has shown very clearly that adjusting the calculation rate is not a solution and that you have to look intergenerationally at what such an adjustment would do. For the sake of clarity, I will leave it at that. I suppose we'll get to talk about it sometime. The Minister has already addressed Mrs Lodder's questions on the voluntary product. Mr Omtzigt did not draw attention to the IORP II Directive for the first time. I very much intend to inform the Chamber very soon of the precise implications of this IORP II directive for our legislation. We are talking about this neatly. I trust that we will continue to debate this very soon. The Chamber will no doubt, I hope, request a general discussion or a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u87	When is "very soon"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm just gonna take a look at the timeline. I promised the Chamber that at the latest three months after the implementation plan entered into force, I would send that effect to the Chamber. So that's really super soon: in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u89	I'm glad we're getting that in a week. We would have liked to have had it earlier, because we actually felt that we should have had a list of the consequences for Dutch legislation at the time of the agreement or not. That would have been the right order. I also asked in my contribution to get a list of the state of play with pension funds leaving abroad or about to do so. Can that be included in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u90	It can't be that fast. I have, of course, already informed the Chamber of the fact that only a limited number of multinationals have left in recent years. This represents 0.1% of the total pension of the Netherlands. If any more funds have left, I want the Chamber to know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u91	I assume that next week's letter will give us an up-to-date overview of developments and perhaps also a little insight into what the government expects, with all the uncertainty. If the letter comes a week later, it's not very exciting, because then we're in a recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u92	Fine, but at least I'll give the implementation plan to the Chamber as soon as possible. I will try to update funds that may have made a switch as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u93	In my speech, I did not pay attention to it, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give a clear answer in that letter as to what caused the amendment of the IORP directive. What could be done in the old situation and what can be done now? Are there any differences? We have asked for this earlier, but because it remains above the market, I would like to have mentioned it explicitly once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u94	I think it's an excellent plan. In fact, I very much intend to do this. I see again that there is apparently still some fog going on. We simply have to throw them off our backs as soon as possible. It must be crystal clear under what conditions a fund can possibly change, what the Nederlandsche Bank has for supervisory function and how that supervisory function can be nicely restored. Moreover, the Chamber also placed the works council and the participants in a position. In short, that's a nice trip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u95	Certainly, but my question was very specific: what could be done to adapt the IORP directive and what could not be done now? I would have liked to have seen that difference, because I have a different experience of it than was put forward in the interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u96	It may be that I have the same experience as Mrs Lodders. I can tell her that I will certainly take that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u97	We now move on to a second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen. Speaking time is really one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr President, it is therefore a matter of speaking quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the basis of a European Commission note, the Eurogroup has held a benchmarking exercise on the impact of pension arrangements on the long-term sustainability of public finances within the euro area;]] [[whereas the objective of this discussion is, among other things, to achieve greater convergence in the euro area, but the benchmarks are not binding;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that pension systems in the first and second pillars and the relevant pension rules are and remain a purely national matter, with the exception of minimum requirements for IORP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the difference in VAT treatment of the management costs of pension funds implementing DC and DB schemes respectively results in an undesirable and uneven playing field within the Netherlands and in relation to neighbouring countries;]] [[Whereas, for DB schemes, the pension income for the members of the fund is also determined by the investment results on the premium deposited, each euro having an additional cost profile;]] [[calls on the Government to commission an independent examination of the impact of the uneven playing field due to the differences in VAT treatment of management costs for DC and DB schemes, as well as to make recommendations to remove the uneven playing field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1427]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21507-07-1428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr President, I had one short motion, but I don't know if you'll allow me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u100	Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas European benchmarks can increase understanding of the contribution of European pension schemes to the long-term sustainability of public finances in the EU;]] [[points out that this increased understanding should not lead to a reduction by Europe of the control of individual Member States over pension schemes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u102	I call Mr Snels, on behalf of GroenLinks. I see that he does not need it, and that is why I can now give Mr Tony van Dijck the floor. Am I right that you're still writing a motion? A handwritten motion: that was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I only had one question. That is the same question as the one I started my first term with: what is the Netherlands doing wrong? The Dutch therefore work the longest of all residents of all Member States. The Dutch are the last to retire. That's what that Ageing report shows. We can retire in 2060 with 71.5 years while people in those other countries can retire between 65 and 69 years old. The Dutch are therefore the last to retire. We work the hardest. We work longest and the public funds are the relatively least contributed, 6.5% of GDP. And we have the biggest pension fund! We have a 1,400 billion pension fund, something that everyone's jealous of. Apparently we are doing something wrong and my question to the Secretary of State is: why is the Netherlands being taken so hard in the area of pensions? Are we indeed Europe's workhorse or the milk cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr. Chairman. I shall proceed immediately with the tabling of my motions. I've got two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Eurogroup called on the European Commission to carry out a country comparison of the fiscal sustainability of pension schemes;]] [[Whereas pension legislation is a national matter;]] [[points out that European regulation resulting from this benchmark is not and may not be present,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u105	Then I'll get my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Commission is preparing a proposal for a framework for personal pension products in the third pillar;]] [[Whereas pension legislation is a national matter;]] [[calls on the Government to speak in the European Commission against a framework for European personal pension products in the third pillar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, of course, to the directors for the response and the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I very much look forward to having a real debate with the three new colleagues. I hope they enjoyed the only debate in which we do not interrupt them. I hear Mr Snels now shouting that he has taken advantage of that. I think that's quite right. The first debate here is often more pleasant for many politicians than the last, so enjoy it today!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u108	This is all going away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u109	I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that all documents such as benchmark surveys discussed at the meetings of the eurogroup should be available for the debate in the Lower House prior to those meetings of the eurogroup;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal within three months to make this type of document available in good time for the debate in the House of Representatives on a euro group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u110	You will be pleased, Mr President, that this is in line with the advice of the parliamentary lawyer that appeared a few weeks ago. In addition to Mr Van Rooijen's motion, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to set a benchmark on VAT in relation to pension schemes in EU countries and to exclude investment from VAT;]] [[Calls on the Government to forward that benchmark and options to the Chamber by 15 September 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u111	Of course, the Minister of Finance had forgotten the list, but he could not cite any examples of a country that does charge VAT on investment in pension funds. Those examples should be examined in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u112	Thank you. I see there's a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u113	We will continue with the reaction of the rulers to the motions that have been tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr. Chairman. It's seven motions. I haven't been able to study them very well. So I'm gonna read and judge them talking. In the motion of Mr Van Rooijen to item No. 1427 calls on the government to ensure that pension systems in the first and second pillars and on pension regulation are and remain a purely national matter, with the exception of IORP minimum requirements. I could say that this motion is completely superfluous and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I want to deal with it relaxed, so I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber as well. But I think the motion is completely superfluous. In any case, I am not reading that finance ministers or ministers of social affairs are from now on forbidden to talk about pension systems in different countries or to compare them, but I am sure that is not meant to be. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 1428 calls for an independent examination of the effects of the unequal playing field due to differences in VAT treatment and so on and for recommendations to eliminate the unequal playing field. I'm gonna dissuade them. There are differences because there are also different tax regimes. We have raised the unequal playing field with the Commission. We asked her to look into this and to raise it in the VAT Committee. If necessary, we will do so repeatedly to ensure that there is a level playing field. I therefore advise against this motion. I shall continue with the motion by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Kent on part No. 1429. In this report, the Court states that European benchmarks can increase understanding and that this understanding should not lead to a Europe-wide restriction of the control of individual Member States over their pension schemes. This motion falls a bit into the same category as the motion in part No. 1427. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I notice that there are three or four motions that have roughly the same port. It's really something we all agree on, I think. For all three or four, if you make one motion, the signal is more powerful. That is what I would like to consider. You can also waive it, because we are very much in agreement. The motion in part No. 1430 is on the same subject again. The Court states that European legislation resulting from this benchmark is not and can be considered. That wording appeals to me. It is not on the agenda, nor can it be on the agenda. So this is a wording that you could all support. I shall also leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion by Mr Lodders and Mr Omtzigt in part No. 1431 the cabinet is invited to speak in the European Commission against a framework for European personal pension products in the third pillar. We do not have the right to speak in the European Commission, but that is a detail. I advise against this motion. I think this is really premature. We are very critical of it; we have said that and have previously reported it to the Chamber. We are now waiting for the proposal. The Commission has the right of initiative, of course, so it can come forward with proposals. It makes no sense to send a letter between the consultation and the proposal to the Commission, as requested in the motion. Just know that we don't need it. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion until the proposal arrives and then decide whether you reject it definitively and completely. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1432, in which Mr Omtzigt asked the government to make a proposal within three months to make documents available in good time. I have to answer that very precisely. There are different types of documents in the euro group. There are documents that are drawn up and distributed under my responsibility. We'll make that public immediately. We have an annotated agenda and so on. That type of document is therefore immediately available to the public. There are also documents prepared and submitted to us by the Commission. It is not strictly formal or legal. I cannot say to the Commission: you must make this document public every once in a while. That is up to the Commission itself. She herself has rules about how she deals with this. There is, of course, consultation with the Commission. As I promised the Chamber once again, I urged the Commission to publish the documents as soon as possible and preferably before the euro group. We have already agreed that they will publish the documents immediately after the eurogroup. I will therefore once again ask the Commission whether it can do so earlier and whether it can certainly do so for this type of document, which is not highly sensitive, also for the euro group. I will insist on that, but I cannot propose to the House of Representatives within three months to make such documents available in good time, as the motion asks. It can't be. They're documents that don't fall under my formal authority. So I must discourage this motion for that reason, but I do keep my promise again. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1433. It's interesting. It calls on the government to have a benchmark carried out. I assume that this is a European benchmark. Would you also agree that the European Commission should implement it, Mr Omtzig? Yeah? And we need to discuss them in a European body such as the euro group, surely? You're impertinent! Anyway, let's get to the content. The principle of the benchmark is embraced here, but now we go to the content of this benchmark. This motion is again on the subject of VAT. We have established that the Supreme Court has confirmed this and the Commission also supports that it is true that there are different tax regimes and that there is therefore another VAT regime. It is important, however, that this interpretation is followed in all countries. As I have already said, the European Commission must act in this respect. I therefore reject this request for a benchmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u116	I noticed that the Minister's motion in part No. 1427 of 50PLUS was completely superfluous, but left the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1430 by Mr Lodders of the VVD actually has the same text. It says "is and can be" and in our motion it says "are and stay." That motion shall not be declared superfluous and shall be left to the discretion of the Chamber. I agree with the Minister that you can combine a lot of texts in this way, but then the Minister must also come to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u117	Eventually, my judgment was the same: I left the judgment to the Chamber. This was merely an opinion to the Chamber, since it is a voting opinion. My second suggestion, even more modest, would be to make one motion, because I now have at least three with the same aim. Having said that, are you right that the wording "is and may be" is very close to "being and stay."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u118	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. All motions have been commented on. I have a question from Mr Van Dijck: what is the Netherlands doing wrong in this context? I can tell Mr Van Dijck that the Netherlands is doing nothing wrong. We have a really good system, world number two. The poverty among our elderly is fortunately also very low worldwide, because we are looking at how we can ensure and perfect our system over and over again. I'm sure my successor, along with your Chamber, will be happy to continue with that. In short, let me just say once more: the Netherlands really does nothing wrong in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u120	If we have such a great system, why should the Dutch then continue to work for the longest time by the inhabitants of all the Member States, up to 71.5 years in 2060 according to the Ageing Report of the European Commission? Why do the Dutch work the longest in number of years before they can retire? We have the biggest pension fund. Then why are the Dutch so disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u122	You would actually think that the Dutch could be the first to retire with such a great system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u123	Our countrymen, all of us, are not at all disadvantaged. It is precisely because we are working a little longer that we can keep this fantastic system fully going. The average Dutchman gets a lot older than 50 years ago. So it's very solid. It's precisely because we're working together that we stay upright and the average elderly hasn't fallen into poverty. That's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you. Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u125	We're doing an interruption in two, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u127	Or am I crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u128	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u129	The average Belgian also gets much older. He retires in 2060 with 65. We must work six and a half years longer than that average Belgian. The question is, what are we doing wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u130	One more sentence: the average Dutch older is really warmer than the average Belgian older. Again, we are doing nothing wrong in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u131	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors, the MPs, the clerks, the directors' support, the report and the editors, the messengers and the people who have followed the debate in a different way, via the Internet.
