ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday we read in Trouw that asylum lawyers see a significant increase in the withdrawal of passports of people of Turkish nationality. This increase took place already after the coup attempt in Turkey on 15 July last year and concerns people who would be associated with the Gülen movement. At the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam, they were told that they are a fugitive and that they can get a one-day passport to fly to Turkey where they have to prove their innocence in court before they could be entitled to a new passport. The preparation of such a process alone could take about six months. It is unclear whether this is done on the basis of evidence or on the basis of alleged sympathies. This Minister said earlier that we in the Netherlands do not do 'guilt by association', but as a result of the emergency situation that was created after the coup, the Turkish authorities have more powers to start research, including to Turks abroad, and that is what we are experiencing here in the Netherlands. I therefore have the following questions to Minister Koenders. 1. Is the Minister aware of this state of affairs and can he confirm the situation? 2. Has the Minister contacted the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam and, if so, what was the outcome of that contact? 3. What can the Minister do for people with Turkish nationality whose passport has been taken? In what way can he capture them or protect them? 4. Can the Minister outline what problems Turks face without passports when it comes to their stay in the Netherlands? 5. What is the advice of this minister to people of Turkish nationality who have an appointment at the consulate in the next week? How can they act best?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma's first question is whether I am aware or can confirm that there are specific cases relating to the withdrawal of passports by the Turkish authorities at the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam. The only thing I can say about this is that there are some cases where people with Turkish nationality indicate that their passport has been withdrawn. It's a very small number. The exact reason for this withdrawal is not yet clear to us. The IND does not register centrally and does not have any further information on the reason for withdrawing the passports. If this is the case, these may be Turkish Dutch nationals with two nationalities or Turkish citizens with a Dutch residence permit. The last group comes at a certain time to renew the residence permit. Hence also the IND that records. In special cases, the IND also accepts an identity card other than a passport and therefore does not have to stand in the way of the Turkish passport renewal of the residence permit. Let me say straight away that, of course, I was also concerned by these messages which I also read in the newspaper. That's what I can confirm. So I can't actually confirm that this is happening. Only, I would point out to you specific cases, a small number at the IND, of which it is not clear exactly what the reason is. In any case, we would reject such a measure. In any case, we would formulate it in such a way that it would not be possible if there was not a sufficient legal basis for it. When I heard or read that in the newspaper "I was in Bonn at the time," I had, of course, contact the Turkish delegation at the G20 to ask whether there was indeed such a measure. I will do that again this week or have it done with the new temporary agent, because of course this will take care of the Turkish Dutch and so we have concerns and we do not want there to be an export of the problems in Turkey. That concerns question 2. The third question was whether the embassy has drawn up lists. I cannot say at the moment whether that is the case. The question was: what about the legal ground? It was not immediately clear how the Turkish authorities would implement the decree and what the consequences would be for Turkish Dutch in individual cases. So that's what we're going to ask about first. I already did that on Friday when I saw the first messages, and I will do that this week. I would also like to raise this in discussions with a number of neighbouring countries to see if there are similar complaints about the possible withdrawal of people's passports on improper grounds. I would point out, however, that a passport is a direct relationship between the government and the individual citizen. That's what makes it difficult. In this sense, it is quite different from the problem referred to here as 'the long arm'. We do, too. If people are accused of something in another country, the passport can be revoked. It happens all the time. We can go even further by withdrawing nationality. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that we immediately questioned these reports with the Turkish authorities. If there is no legal basis for it, or if it somehow leads to new tensions in Turkish society in the Netherlands, then we will, of course, take action towards the Turkish Government and we will ask that this stop. Again, the facts and evidence are not such that I can say with certainty that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers and also for the nuances he makes with them. I think it's crucial that we're clear about the numbers. There are small numbers at the moment. The Minister has asked questions and will ask at the consulate. I think it's wise to do it that way. I hope that the Minister will then send the information to the Chamber as soon as possible. This information concerns both the events here in the Netherlands and the question whether the same practices are taking place in neighbouring countries. No matter how large these numbers are, the most important thing is that these kinds of messages can also cause unrest among people who are in the Netherlands, who often also have Dutch nationality or who are partners of people of Dutch nationality. They are not sure where they stand and are concerned about their freedom of movement and whether or not they should appear before a judge in Turkey. It is very important that this Minister is committed to this. Having said that, I would like to mention something that is partly relevant here. There are also stories, which I find difficult to verify, and I find that this applies not only to people who suspect that they have Gülenist sympathies, but also to journalists, for example, or to people with a Kurdish background. I would like to ask the Minister to comment briefly on this and to look at the report on Turkey. I think this is important in general terms. That post dates back to 2013. We all know that Turkey from 2013 unfortunately, I would almost say that it is no longer Turkey from 2017. The Minister himself talked about the handling of cases by the IND, but also a number of Turkish officers have just applied for asylum. These matters should be assessed in the light of the most up-to-date state of affairs in Turkey. My final question to the Minister is: is it an idea to revise that 2013 post?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about people with Gülenist sympathies and journalists. The core of Dutch policy is "no guild by association." So the Dutch government only intervenes if there is indeed a criminal case. And then they're gonna take a look at it. As we all know, we're sticking to that. Secondly, at a time when the Dutch Government has any impression that action is being taken in a way that leads to the export of problems in Turkey to Dutch society, we are acting and addressing the Turkish Government. That's what was seen in the case of Diyanet. Thirdly, the legal certainty of people is at the top of the Dutch government. We will ask questions, both from the neighbouring countries and directly from the Turkish authorities. I will have to take a look at the issue of the post with my colleague, the Secretary of State for V and J. He gives the orders to do so. We still have to look at when exactly that would be, because the situation is always fluid. Based on information we get from the embassy, we can clearly act. I will discuss with him whether there is a need for this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister is right to say that granting and withdrawing passports is a matter for Turkey, as is the case for the Netherlands. Something else is going to happen if the withdrawal of passports were to take place on the wrong grounds, on the basis of deception, or even harassment. Then it's gonna be different. We all know that Mayor Aboutaleb has set up a special police team since last year's coup to investigate the already over a hundred declarations. I would like to know whether the government is paying close attention to whether these declarations involve the implication of the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam or the intimidation by the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam of people who, for whatever reason, have to be there and then walk out without a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	The answer to both questions is clearly yes. In the past, we have had a number of problems with that consulate. We have the impression that there has been a significant improvement, also as a result of interventions by the Dutch government. I can't confirm these messages. That is why I said that we are asking for clarification. It is important to know if people have those complaints. So I think it is important to pass this on to my colleague in the field of security and justice, also in the light of what is happening in Rotterdam. So I like to perform something more than a letterbox function. I will pass this on to my colleague with a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	This incident isn't on its own. That is why it is also very intimidating, as I noticed in the conversations I had with Turkish Dutch people last weekend. They're getting scared. They feel unsafe and unfree to be in the Netherlands, but also to travel to Turkey, for example. They also say that they report, but that they often never hear back from such a report. Here is the Foreign Minister, but I ask him to give this to his colleague. I ask this minister where these people can go if they are worried or afraid, other than with the police. Is it not time to open a window for these Turkish Dutch people at Foreign Affairs, where they can deal with their concerns and questions about their position here and there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I think the first point is crucial. If there are reports that certain declarations would not have been followed up, that is obviously not good. I am happy to pass on this signal from Mr Marcouch, because this is the essence. I myself said a few days after last year's coup: report it. In the case of intimidation, this should be discussed and followed up. So I'm happy to take over. The second point concerned a hotline. That's quite a sensitive matter. However, I have no problem showing people that they are afraid. That fear is exactly what we want to avoid. The core of our policy is to prevent people from feeling uncomfortable here and that tensions are spreading. It's hard for me to do that now on the basis of this information. However, in the regular discussions between various types of organisations and the Dutch Government, I will say that this issue can also be raised there. Then people have a mailbox so that we can be more precise about that side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	The PvdA and D66 are constantly talking about exporting these problems through Turkey. With regard to the Gülensympathisants, I would like to ask the Minister about the import of these conflicts to the Netherlands. Recently we read a newspaper article stating that 256 people from Turkey have applied for asylum in the Netherlands. Can the Minister assure me that there is not a single person among the 256 people responsible for the failed coup attempt in Turkey and that there are no accomplices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	I cannot answer this question because the government does not provide information on asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, my vote is not doing so well today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	You are not the only one speaking with a hoarse voice today, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	My question to the Minister follows on from Mr Marcouch's question. Where can people, except the police, go if they are intimidated in any way? The Minister refers to a consultation with all kinds of organisations. I know that all kinds of organisations, especially in the Netherlands, position themselves as an extension of the Turkish government. The Chamber has ruled that this cooperation must be broken. So I wonder where these people can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	This concerns a specific point, namely the possibility that the Turkish consulate would have acted on certain points. I do not have any information on this at the moment. I'm sure Mrs Karabulut understands that. I told you how I'm trying to find out. At the moment when there is clarity, I can see whether the normal channels we have to talk about this need to be supplemented or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	No, this can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	When will the Minister inform us about this? Otherwise, it's gonna be so vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	I can't say any more about it. We're discussing this in response to a newspaper report. I immediately arrested what is in it, because I find any intimidation in the Netherlands unacceptable. Nevertheless, it is up to us to see what is and is not true. On that basis, I can assess whether it is necessary to use special instruments. Take it from me that we take this very seriously. By "we," I mean police and justice, the IND and myself as Foreign Minister. If anything really needs to be done, we can get back to that right away. I am prepared to discuss it with the Chamber, with various organisations or with people who want to let us know otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	I thank the Minister. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
