ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the budget for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at what then is the third theme: security. It's about the Wiv, among other things. We've already exchanged a few things about that just in the event of interruption, so I'm going to go through it a little faster. I have already mentioned how we deal with the Wiv in the debate on the interruption with Mr Van Raak and others. Mrs. Kuik also asked about it. The referendum that will take place on the Wiv is a reason to participate extensively in the debate on what the Wiv is exactly. Mr Van Raak likes that and I agree! I will at least send a letter from the cabinet to the Chamber. In that letter I would like to comment on the principles contained in the coalition agreement with regard to the Wiv. That letter is here, as far as I am concerned, in the short term. Between now and mid-December, that should work. That letter therefore goes into what is stated in the coalition agreement, i.e. the application of the safeguards contained in the law, one of which I have already explained in detail by letter, namely the setting up of the so-called TIB, the committee of inquiry in advance, which should, in fact, review whether the Minister has properly judged and whether the commitment is indeed desirable. There are other safeguards in the law. The letter will also address the principle in the government agreement of early evaluation, i.e. no later than two years after entry into force. By then, we will see whether the evaluation shows whether there is a need for changes to the law. We will have the referendum on 21 March. In the same letter in which I explained that more time is needed for the establishment of the TIB in order to be careful, I also indicated that the cabinet will first, on its way to the referendum, intervene extensively in the social debate. The Prime Minister has emphasized this from this point on. Then we have to wait and see what comes out of the referendum. With a yes, it's obvious immediately. If not, the law states what the cabinet should do. It says that the cabinet will consider the outcome of the referendum, in accordance with, as has been said, the provision in the law. We shall do so with the greatest possible care. Mr President, that is actually what I wanted to add on the issue of security and the Wiv. If that does not lead to a run on the interrupting microphone, I would very much like to continue my speech on the subject of working together in public administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	Oh, Mrs. Arissen. Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	It was entrapment, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	I understand from the Minister that she is going to send another comprehensive letter on the guarantees that are added to the law on the drag law. I still have a question about the review committees. There are concerns that these review committees will have too little impact. An additional 1.4 million is invested in supervision, but this needs to be shared between the TIB and the CTIVD. It is also said by the Personal Data Authority that it is actually going to be a stamp machine, because how can three committee members test all these applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	Will the Minister say something about this in advance of the social debate on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mrs Arissen mentioned the safeguards. Me too. I am talking about the safeguards already in the law and the application, the careful application of those safeguards in the new law. At the moment, I have no indication that there is a financial bottleneck, either at the new committee, at the TIB or at the CTIVD. Both committees must have sufficient financial resources and human resources to enable them to do their job. Again, I think that is very important, but I have no indication that that would not be the case. But if Mrs Arissen appreciates it, then I will also deal with it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	The ex post verification shall be carried out on a random basis. The CTIVD says that in order to be able to exercise effective supervision, there must be a clear and defined framework in the law; this is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	I am sure that Mrs Arissen asked this question when she discussed the law. The comments of the CTIVD are involved in the legal treatment. A number of comments were made at the time and a number of concerns expressed by the CTIVD. This has also been taken into account in the drafting of the law. I assume that this also applies to this, but I have just promised that I will make sure in the letter and in the preparation of it that there are no concerns in advance at the CTIVD and at the newly set up committee about the financial resources and the expertise they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm gonna be on the public administration. I have just said that we should be proud of the quality of public administration in the Netherlands. We're in good shape. We're high on international rankings. But it's not all gonna happen on its own. It's not a quiet possession, I'd almost like to sit down. The board must also change with time. We have just talked about how to involve people in public administration, but of course it is also about the public administration itself. Mr Bosma, who is very interested in my previous position, asked me whether I was dealing with this as an alderman. I am actually grateful to him for that question, because as an alderman I got to know the public administration across the board, namely the municipality itself, the region, so all the surrounding municipalities, the relationship with the Empire, the relationship with the province and international relations. I am truly impressed by the drive and commitment of the administrators and officials who support them. On behalf of the VNG, I chaired the so-called Thinktank. He's done an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses in our public administration. These are all lessons, knowledge and expertise that I would very much like to involve in my new position. If I try to oversee the whole thing, partly on the basis of that experience, then I see a country that is very diverse in many respects. A country that consists of city and countryside, the Randstad and the province. Our country may be geographically small, but it is very large in diversity. There are, therefore, very large differences between the tasks in the different regions. Some regions have to do with population growth and tightness, while others have to do with population decline and shrinkage. I refer to the economic development and the enormous capacity to attract people from our cities, but also the consequences for other areas of the Netherlands. We just talked about undermining. There are specific threats, such as undermining crime and drug crime. These are all bottlenecks that we have to work on from The Hague, but above all with other parties. The coalition agreement contains a so-called envelope for tackling regional bottlenecks. My colleague Carola Schouten, the Minister for Agriculture, coordinates that fund. We do that together, and we've already had a first conversation about that. We'll work out that approach together. It specifically identifies a number of regional bottlenecks, such as Zeeland, Eindhoven, Rotterdam-Zuid and the BES islands. We will ensure that this money is spent on strengthening the regions. I very much look forward to seeing with the regions what the best initiatives are for this. How can public services be further improved? How can we best shape all the ambitions of the government agreement that will soon have to be implemented by municipalities or provinces? If I look at this in the light of the responsibility that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has in this regard, I intend to ensure an impact in a so-called programmed approach. I had a first discussion on this with IPO, VNG and the Union of Water Councils. I thought that was a promising and positive conversation. We have said that we will meet again in the near future. We therefore have an ambition to try to simplify the work of many of my colleagues, namely the content of administrative agreements, in an intergovernmental programme on how to do so. That's how I want to fill out my coordinating role. I will also do this together with Menno Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance, because we are together fund managers of the Municipal and Provincial Funds. Then there is a question from Mr Van Raak about the scale increase in municipalities. I believe that others, at least Mrs Özütok, have asked for this. One of the things I've seen is that when you think from above how the bowl is best, it often works out the least well. If you are looking for cooperation within the structures that exist, you can often do a lot. At the same time, we are increasingly asking for municipalities. We believe, at least I think, that municipalities are closest to the citizens and are often the ones best able to carry out certain tasks for the benefit of citizens. The question then is which scale fits. I do not think that it is necessarily good if a municipality is very large or that it is always better that a municipality is very small. I think the municipalities themselves are best placed to judge what they need. However, there is a possibility to put certain things into municipal regulations through the Common Regulations Act. So there is that possibility. There are examples where it works quite well, there are examples where it does not work very well and there are certainly examples where, for example, council members find it very difficult to exercise their supervisory powers. The coalition agreement actually calls for a review of whether these common arrangements can be changed and improved. As a minister, I'm responsible for that. For me, it is essential that decision-making should always be transparent and that council members should always be able to exercise their supervisory powers. There must be democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	I'd like to know if you're done with this part of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then I'll finish it. It is my intention to send a letter to your Chamber in the spring of 2018 and to include in that letter the substantive frameworks for a possible amendment of the Common Regulations Act. In that letter, I will also outline a timetable for how we can implement it. I would therefore like to comment on the amendments to the Community law. The Municipal Act and the Common Regulations Act cannot be seen separately from each other. Finally, reclassifications to this chapter. Some comments have been made on this. I just said that I don't think one particular size is always the best. Too big, too small: that could be both. It lies mainly with the municipalities themselves, but provinces of course also have a role in it. I think they're gonna take that part, too. If municipalities do not come out well, the provinces can offer a helping hand. This may then lead to a reclassification that is workable for the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. This is what brought me to the end of this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'm glad the minister says councilmen should be able to do their job, but if you have municipalities with 80 cores, you're not a local representative anymore. If you have 800 partnerships that you have nothing to say about, then you're no longer a local representative. If everything in the field of security is discussed in a security region, which you have nothing to say about, and neither is your own alderman, then you are no longer a public representative. I have therefore also asked for the Minister's views on the representation of the people. How can we ensure that people who sit in the city council are not popular officials who check the papers of officials again, but can be representatives of the people, politicians who can represent the interests and needs of their local community?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	If Mr Van Raak makes that statement in a general sense, then I think everyone agrees with Mr Van Raak, first of all the council members, who are indeed representatives of the people. I think there are many tasks in which this does not happen. There are also examples of security regions and other common arrangements in which council members say: I can do quite well with that. But there are also examples of common arrangements where this is no longer transparent enough and where council members sometimes no longer see the forest through the trees. I also know that sometimes, especially for a few smaller municipalities, it can be very difficult to assess that. I find that undesirable, and I would therefore like to take this into account in what I have just promised you, namely to see whether there is a need to amend the law or to say that there are other ways of saying: perhaps a common rule is not always the best solution. If it is the best solution, then perhaps we can do something about transparency and explaining the role of council members who feel uncomfortable when they are sometimes in the common scheme and are actually part of a decision, and beyond that, in their municipal council they are supposed to carry out their controlling task. So I can see that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	Good. Then I have two brief questions. Who actually owns local sovereignty? As you can see, there are ongoing debates on reclassification. And then it's council members, aldermen, who decide. But local democracy does not belong to the rulers, which belongs to the population. So, to begin with, does the Minister agree with me that the people should always have the last word? That the population should always be consulted for a reclassification? And will the Minister include her views on this in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'd be happy to give you my word on that. There's always an election. In this respect, voters are always involved, even when it comes to reclassifications. Municipalities also have the freedom to choose the form in which they decide whether or not to reorganise. Some choose to submit that to the population, others choose not to. So there are those different flavors. And I think it is very good that municipalities make a decision on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mrs Özütok. No, Mr Van Raak, we're really doing interruptions in twos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister sees that there are problems with the common rules and democratic control, transparency and clarity of that process. Is the Minister prepared to look also at the legal protection of citizens, now that social services, as the Minister himself outlined, have become much more customary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	Let me just say that I'm willing to take a look at it. I do not want to say that it is, but I have heard the question correctly. And I'd be happy to include it in the letter I'll give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	To get a few things straight: Mr Van Raak just asked the question about the involvement of the population in reclassifications. I thought I understood that the Minister of his suggestion to hold a referendum in all these cases and give the people the last word, says: I can promise. Maybe that's something else you mean. So I'd like to hear that from you. The second comment you made concerned whether municipalities are too large or too small. Mr Van Raak said that in a municipality with 80 cores you cannot be a representative of the people. However, the SP is currently taking part in the elections in Súdwest Fryslân in order to provide people's representatives, but that is something else. I would like to have an explanation of the concept...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr President, Mr Van der Molen is constantly addressing other Members of Parliament when he asks a question to the Minister. I'm fine with that, but we're going to have that debate. My comment is, and Mr Van der Molen really needs to learn that in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Van Raak...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	...that we're debating or, and I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	No, I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	Of course the SP is in. The SP is in everything. But I find it very remarkable that the CDA says that you can be a local politician for your own local community, for your own village, for your own core in a municipality with 80 cores. That's really weird. And that is also one of the reasons why we are in favour of having much smaller municipalities, to give the local community a translation into politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	You made your point, Mr Van Raak. I suggest you just ask the Minister questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yes, Mr President, I do not intend to do this wrong now. So the moment Mr Van Raak takes offense at this, I will of course add myself to how the sitting should run. I didn't mean to. My intention was to ask the following question. The minister says that municipalities can also be too large. A redeployment is also always a matter for the Minister. So the question to the Minister is: if you have a view on 'too small' or 'too large', then what is that and how does that relate to the local consideration of whether or not to re-assess?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	Perhaps first of all, Mr Van der Molen's first question: I did not say that a referendum is always desirable. I said, if the municipalities want to hold a referendum on the reclassification, they can do so. I think that's very good. On the other hand, if they find another way better to conclude that this reclassification is desirable, for example because they believe that they have already received the mandate from their voters, then so can they. The second question: no, my point was that I don't think you can determine the ideal size of a municipality. I think that there are very large municipalities, such as Amsterdam, where the council members do feel that they represent the whole city, 830,000 or 840,000 people. I think there are small municipalities that can work very well, but I think there are also many small municipalities that are still looking through the scale for ways to provide better services to their citizens. There are different ways of doing that. reclassification is one option; administrative merger is another option. I do not think that you should impose what is the best way from above, but that we should help to find resources, ways and instruments that will give the citizens of that municipality the service they can expect from their government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	The minister says that in Amsterdam, with 830,000 inhabitants, the council members feel representatives of the whole city. I doubt that. It is a very large municipality, one of the largest municipalities in the Netherlands. The submunicipalities are almost leaving the upcoming elections. Aren't you afraid that in those areas the attention that the citizen demands will no longer come to the people's representatives, but to officials and that Amsterdam will become more of an official municipality than a public representative municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm not so afraid of that. Amsterdam is of course by far the largest municipality in the Netherlands and will continue to work with advisory committees in the districts and with the so-called eye and ear function in the districts. Although the city hall is rather central in the city centre of Amsterdam, I therefore think that the people who work there are certainly those who are chosen to represent the city very aware of the fact that they have to represent the whole of Amsterdam. But again, I'm standing here as a minister now. I happen to know Amsterdam a little better. My point was that not the size as such, but the service and representation of the inhabitants of the municipality must be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	I agree with the latter: not the size is important but the service, but I do see a trend in the Netherlands. More and more district councils and sub-municipalities are abolished or weakened, are given an advisory function and are allowed to distribute the subsidy of a few tonnes. But the officials will then be given top posts and 'decision-making places' in places where we believe that the representative of the people should have a place. Do you think that the tendency for civil servants to gain more and more power in the Netherlands is a trend which we should go along with or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	I do not see this tendency for civil servants to gain more and more power. I see that we are trying to make the provision of services to citizens as professional as possible. This requires an administrative apparatus, but the primacy lies with the politicians and with the administrators. In the cases I know, for example the advisory committees in Amsterdam, it is really about elected and appointed directors, not officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	Please continue. You've now come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	The Top Income Standards Act, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, I'm flying through it. I have a number of comments on the Top Income Standards Act. This cabinet is in favour of a sober remuneration policy in the public and semi-public sectors. For that there are also top income standards. Even before the previous cabinet was already working on austerity of top incomes, but the previous cabinet has introduced this law and has also built up a lot of it. I am very motivated to implement that law and also to strictly enforce it. If there is any avoidance of the law or if there are concrete problems in the application of the law, I would like to address that. I will do so in consultation with the colleagues in the cabinet who are concerned about this. For example, I intend to look together with my colleague from Health, Welfare and Sport at constructions with subcontractors in care. I would like to inform you of the outcome by letter. Some of you have asked me how I look at these high remunerations in the public sector. Well, so: sober at the top and no illegal applications of top incomes in the public sector. Ms Kuik indicated that she regretted that the cabinet had chosen not to submit the WNT3. I have very recently sent you that draft legislative proposal and the opinion of the Council of State. In that letter I explained why the cabinet chose not to submit the WNT3. You have undoubtedly also noted that the Council of State had an extremely harsh opinion on the legislative proposal. The Council of State considered it premature because we do not yet know the effects of the WNT enough. Nutrient and necessity were missing. The Council of State considers the WNT3 to be too coarse a tool to tackle something that might also be addressed with targeted measures. Mr Middendorp asked about the review of the law, also in response to reports about excessive costs in the healthcare sector. He also mentioned the costs of registering relatively small amounts. The noises about high control burdens, especially in the healthcare sector, had already reached us. In the meantime, in close consultation with the professional organisation, the NBA, it has been discussed whether we can do something about these control burdens within the limits of the law, so that those control burdens on the WNT as such can be reduced. That seems to be possible. A revised control protocol is now being worked on. It is expected that this will lead to a significant reduction in the burden of control alone. The application of the WNT as such shall be monitored. You also know that the transitional period laid down in the original law is now coming to an end. He was four years old, as you know. In the short term, therefore, we will increasingly see the effects of the law. The number of senior officials who were still above the new remuneration standard will decrease as the transitional law enters into force. In the next three years, it can only go down. After that, it's on the desired level. In this category there is one more question I wanted to answer, namely a question from Mr Van Raak. He said there are more ministers now. As far as he is concerned, this should lead to a reduction in the ministerial salary. If you look at history, you can see that the size of cabinets is fluctuating, Mr. Van Raak. One time the cabinet is a little bigger and there are some more ministers, the other time it is a little smaller. Unless I have been misinformed, at the start of Rutte I, a smaller cabinet, like Rutte II, did not raise the salary. Before that, the cabinets were bigger again. There is one thing I can say to Mr Van Raak. I think it's pretty important myself, and it was in the news yesterday, too. Women in the Netherlands still systematically earn less than men. The women ministers have negotiated excellently and there is no female minister who deserves less than men.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	At least that's clear. Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	The previous cabinet did not submit the WNT, or at least did not make it negotiable in the Chamber. I did. I don't know if you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	You mean a bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yeah, I put in a bill on that. I would ask colleagues to work together, where necessary, to get the law dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	I would like to congratulate you on your message and on what has been prepared with the officials to carry out government policy here. However, I would like to know something about the Minister personally. We know examples, also from her old role in Amsterdam, where we see that among other things private care parties, which receive high subsidies, are well above the ministerial salary. I can't imagine her finding this an easy situation. My question is therefore: what can we do together to act against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	I hope you have read from my input that I myself am very motivated to ensure that sober remuneration in the public and semi-public sectors. I think the WNT is a good tool for that. Where the law apparently does not enforce enough, such as in the healthcare sector, the example mentioned by Mrs Kuik, I am also prepared to look into it. The law is meant to lead to austerity, but if constructions are created that somehow circumvent that, then I think we should look at that. We had to keep an eye on the desired goal of the WNT. I think the signal from the WNT2 was austerity in the public and semi-public sector. It has actually had a much wider effect than the sectors covered by the operation of the law. You also know that, for example, in the municipality of Amsterdam, it has continued to work in the municipal equity policy. Participations which were not actually subject to the functioning of the law are nevertheless considered to introduce a sober remuneration policy. I'm actually very happy with the law. My point is that we do not need the WNT3 to ensure further austerity and application of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	It can't be both true. We see that the WNT1 and 2 have partly done their work, but we have not caught a number of categories yet. Not for nothing do some municipalities see how they can move forward themselves. I therefore call once again on you not to wait for procedural reasons to go for a new law or not, but also to come up with additional measures yourself, precisely to give real shape to that austerity that the Minister appoints, because there are really gaps in it that have not been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	This is a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes, I heard that call very well, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can supplement it after all. I ask Mrs Kuik to look very closely at what I have sent her about the judgment of the Council of State, because that operative part 6 is quite something. It's too coarse, says the Council of State. If there are parts on which you would like to apply a austerity, then such a comprehensive law is a far too coarse instrument for that. However, I am motivated to look on the basis of WNT2 how we can even better enforce that there are no too high rewards, in sectors where we really think that is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	I heard the Minister will look at a significant reduction in the burden. We are very pleased with that, so thank you for that answer. I saw in the answer to the questions we received this morning that the legislation will be reviewed following the Dijkstal Committee and that the Chamber will be informed before Christmas. That is, to a large extent, also about standardisation, or is it about other matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	If it's in our written answer, it's exactly as it says. I could grab it, but I don't have it in front of me right now. At least you can count on what we have written there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	My question is whether the Top Income Standards Act 2 is covered by the Dijkstal Committee, in that sense. Anyway, I can come back to it later. The question that follows is about the evaluation of the Top Income Standards Act. That's what the minister just referred to. The effects could then be seen now, namely that there are fewer people above them. I am also very curious, and I had asked a question about this yesterday, whether this evaluation is also about what is not good about that law, for example whether there are people who are not going to work in hospitals or whether even hospitals are in trouble because they can no longer find people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'm getting the written response from the Secretary of State here. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and come back to it in second place, because I think this question is a little too precise to answer it in this way. Then I come to the second question. There's been one review of the first law. It was in 2015. An evaluation law was passed after that. It has entered into force since 1 July of this year. It has also been said that there will be a second review of the law. It must take place before 2020. In the short term, on the basis of monitoring the law and any complaints about it, I would like to examine whether the application of the law brings what we expect from it. And indeed, the transition period is coming to an end, so we will see many effects in the monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	No, you've been there twice. You also have a second term. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	The SP has once proposed that no one in the public and semi-public sector should earn any more from the Minister. The good thing is that the previous government has taken over this. The bad thing is that she hasn't done it completely, because directors shouldn't earn more than the minister but employees do. The intention of the law was to close that hole. If the minister says that the law doesn't work and that it's all too fast and too short, how is she going to do it? How's she gonna close this hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	I think Mr Van Raak means that the WNT3 was meant for that, right? Yeah, I understand him so well. The Council of State says: that was quite a rude tool to tackle this particular group. It's about a very small number of people, while the new law would have been about a lot of people. So let's see if this problem really arises. Moreover, the coalition agreement rightly states that sometimes, because their expertise is necessary, there may be reason to hire or hire people who earn a higher salary. We talked today about ICT, cyber attacks and government technology. It's gotta be in order. Where appropriate, you may need to hire expertise that is more expensive. Those will be exceptions. I don't expect it to happen on a very large scale. But I'm glad we're keeping that space together. At the same time, we are very critical of it. We'll make sure it's just exceptions and it won't be the rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	The Minister does have a very Catholic view of standards. The standard has not yet been set, or it is again about the exceptions. No, let's set the standard first. How are we gonna set them up? How are we going to ensure that not only directors, but also employees in the public and semi-public sectors, who are paid with tax money, do not earn more than the minister? That was the SP's plan, which was taken over by the previous government. How is this minister going to do that and close that hole, to prevent those people from getting more than a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	My argument was reversed. I am in favour of a sober policy in general. That is true for the summit and indeed for everyone, but there may be reasons why you want to be able to make exceptions, just for the group that Mr Van Raak appoints. It's not about large numbers. It must always be about exceptions. We do not choose to continue with the WNT3, knowing that it was too coarse a tool to tackle that limited group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	I come to discrimination and, above all, to combating it. A number of members, such as Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Kuik, asked for attention to be paid to this. We all know it and outside it is also on the beautiful marble monument: Article 1 of the Constitution is the prohibition of discrimination. It is the basis of everything here in the Netherlands. And yet many Dutch still experience exclusion because of, for example, their religion, their belief in life, their political mind, their sexual orientation or a limitation. I think we all know people who experience that their application doesn't actually have a chance of success by just their name. People who have been the victims of insults, or worse, based on their sexual orientation. People who do not feel represented and do not recognize themselves in their parliament. We don't want that in the Netherlands. We can't do that to people. We have to do everything we can to prevent it. That's why I'm very motivated to fight discrimination. I know that my fellow executives are, too. I sent you a letter last week, including the municipal anti-discrimination provisions. I see my role as a driver, to make real progress in the fight against discrimination together with colleagues in the cabinet. I am well aware that anti-discrimination agencies are not the only solution and I am also very well aware that the words I am saying here are not the only solution either, but we need to work together to find effective measures to combat discrimination. Those anti-discrimination agencies can help with that. They just need to be much more well-known, and they need to have a lot of impact. For now, I want to do enough, but I am working on it fully, together with Mr Koolmees, Mr Van Engelshoven and others, because it is a serious issue that we need to work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	Discrimination is wrong, and it is also growing hand-to-hand. For example, a political party here, the Labour Party, says that the city hall is too white. It is said by the highest woman at the University of Amsterdam that the University of Amsterdam is too white. Mr. Bolhaar, the highest man in the Public Prosecutor's Office, is explicitly looking for colored colleagues. We see that the celebration with Black Piet should not be celebrated, because it is racist and that it is opposed by the government, among other things by then Minister Asscher and by local authorities, among others, Ollongren, but that Ramadan and itar can be celebrated, often with the support of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	Who exactly is discriminated against in the Netherlands and the Minister also intends to do something against discrimination against natives or indigenous people. Discrimination against white people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	I believe that the examples mentioned by Mr Bosma are all about institutions that seek to reflect the society they are for. Whether it's about the city hall in The Hague or the University of Amsterdam, it's important to reflect society. I have been standing here for a few hours now and I think that at least in this Chamber we have managed reasonably well to be such a reflection and to be very diverse, but that is far from everywhere. When I referred just now to Article 1 of the Constitution, I said that it concerns all forms of discrimination. It is undesirable that there are people in the Netherlands who feel discriminated against for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	I do not want to do 'Van der Molentje', but if the Labour Party in this city says that the city hall is too white, does the Minister agree or does she agree with that reason to intervene? Here in The Hague, the Labour Party says: the town hall is too white. Is that something the Minister says: that is discrimination, we should take action against? 'Cause it's just plain ordinary racism, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	I hadn't heard that; you're saying that now. I have just given my interpretation of this, namely that I assume that in this case the political party has pointed out that it is important that the city hall of The Hague also reflects the city of The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	The building of the city hall of The Hague is in any case very white. I would like to come back to the anti-discrimination provisions you are now calling agencies. I'm sure there's a reason for that word change. I think it is important for the Minister to state that she is really going to uncover the great importance of discrimination and that she is seeking contact, coordination with her colleagues from other departments, including, for example, VWS, and that there is structural attention to this problem. It is important that we do not run from incident to incident, but that we get some rest in this debate, because I think that the Netherlands is very much in need of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	I think that Mrs Den Boer has said this very well, and indeed I wanted to underline that in my speech just now. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	You will notice that a lot of people in the Netherlands do not report or file a complaint when it comes to discrimination. Is this Minister prepared to encourage the willingness to report and help those people with anti-discrimination agencies on the ground and also to support those who have difficulty in properly formulating and reporting their complaints? It is also important that discrimination is tackled vigorously, including in the public sector and also in the civil service. Are you prepared to take hard action against discriminatory employees where necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	On your first point, I said just now that it is important that the anti-discrimination agencies have the power to act and are therefore able to act. I would like to call them to that, and I think they are for that. Declaration readiness is very important. It's good to name that here. It is highly desirable for people to report it, because without a declaration it is difficult to act. I therefore wholeheartedly support this call. Your last question just slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	Yeah, that's the disadvantage of asking too many questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	There is also a tendency that people in the public administration don't take declarations seriously, make jokes and actually allow or discriminate against discrimination more or less. Are you prepared to tackle these kinds of employees, who are ultimately paid by our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'd like to make a few nuances about that. I am not aware that it would happen on that scale. I have never been in contact with it in that way myself, but if that were to happen, it would obviously be unacceptable. We need to take action against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	I have another practical point. When it comes to the Minister's coordinating role in the field of discrimination, it is good to hear that she is looking for the other ministers. Organisations also report to the Minister with their own problems or questions. The CDA sometimes understood from those organisations that they did not always feel that the Minister of Foreign Affairs really went to everyone who should know with those messages. How's the secretary gonna pick that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	Well, perhaps Mr Van der Molen would like to tell me outside the meeting which organizations they are. Anyone who knocks must at least be heard and have a reaction. I think that this is true, as is the case with a lot of other things, that we also need these organisations very much to get things done in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u81	And now for the heading "Mr. Bosma."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u82	That's right, because I'm coming to the cup of "varia." One part of this is once again a question from Mr Van Raak, namely his question about the House for whistleblowers. That House is here. I agree with him that the House should carry out the tasks assigned to him. Mr Van Raak did, however, appreciate the advice function of the House. I'm happy about that. I am following the developments of the House very closely. Mr Van Raak knows the origins of the House for whistleblowers much better than I do, so I do not have to tell him that it is an independent administrative body. At the time it was set up, it also received additional guarantees of independence. I can understand that very well, because otherwise, of course, it cannot work properly. As a minister, I am therefore limited in my powers in relation to that House, because these powers focus mainly on financial management, administrative organisation and that kind of thing. There's an independent investigator at work right now. I think Mr Van Raak and I both welcome that. I understand that this independent researcher will present a report before the end of the year or at least present his findings. I am very willing to consider solutions, but I must do so in consultation with the researcher and with the House. I think it is very important that the House should not only function in the advisory function, but also in the other function.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr Van Raak. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you very much for these comments and this attitude. The House really needs to start investigating cases of abuse and abuse. The House is independent and, above all, independent of the Minister. That's how we did it. It is an initiative from the Lower House, so we will soon help the Minister by asking the Chamber for a ruling on this matter. It will present the SP to the Chamber together with the VVD. In this way, we offer the Minister a helping hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you very much. That's how we try to help each other. Madam President. Finally, under the heading 'varia', there is another question from Mr Öztürk. He found that the Randstad is somewhat overrepresented in this cabinet. Now, of course, the composition of the cabinet is an outcome of the cabinet formation and of the choices that parties make. But as an Amsterdammer I think there are a lot of Rotterdammers in this cabinet. Whether it is a Randstadkabinet is only the question, but at least I am trying to bring to the attention of the Andreaskruizen and I hope that Ajax will last this season. At least the department of BZK is well equipped: a Limburger and an Amsterdammer. So I would almost say: what more do you want? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr. Chairman. Last week I was allowed to defend the budget of Kingdom relations in this Chamber. The other part of my wallet is about the Home Office part. That is also a non-important part, in which I, together with the Minister, try to achieve the ambitions of this cabinet in a good way. When I heard the maiden speeches by Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Van der Graaf, I remembered my own maiden speech from exactly twelve years ago. That was also in the budget of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. This building was the same, the people were, I believe with the exception of the chairman, otherwise and we didn't have a flag yet. But for the rest, it seemed a bit the same. At the same time, I note that society has changed immeasurably rapidly since then, 12 years ago. Technology has changed and we are now in the midst of an information age that no one could have predicted 12 years ago that we would be there now. That's kind of the situation I'm in right now and I'm also responsible for, among other things, the digital government. Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for their input and the questions they asked yesterday. I will try to build up my speech, in which I will also answer the questions put by Members, on the basis of four points. This is first of all the digital government, then the Basic Registration Persons (BRP), then cross-border cooperation and finally the real estate business. It is very important for a well-functioning public administration to be able to adapt to the developments that I have just spoken about. This also means, in the field of digital government, that the government will not only have to be able to participate, but will also have to participate and sometimes have to lead the way in order to make that development possible. At the same time, and this is perhaps the most important task, the technology that the government also uses to maintain its service, to provide citizens and businesses with all convenience, must be reliable, safe and fast. That all seems perfectly natural. It also seems very simple. The practice of recent years has shown that government and ICT have not always been a happy combination. In this sense, I look forward to the challenges ahead. It's not even a choice whether we move on; we'll have to go. I also have that ambition and am very excited about this part of my portfolio. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven, whom I do not see for a moment, but who is undoubtedly wandering around virtually somewhere, has rightly pointed out in Het Financieele Dagblad that this cabinet has made digitisation a priority, in fact for the first time in history. That may seem self-evident, but it is not, because digitisation was often something we had to do, what was hanging on it and what wasn't always done out of conviction. Let me make it clear what my ambition is on this point, digitalisation: to keep it accessible and to facilitate citizens and businesses as much as possible. Eventually, if you remove it from all idealistic and ideological theories, the government is also an institution, a cohesion of parts that it has to deliver. It must provide a number of services to the citizens. That's convenient, because I'm a very practical person. This is how I intend to fly this file. I told you, communication must be fast, reliable and safe. At the moment, a lot of digital is already happening. 90% of government services are currently offered digitally. This now involves more than 56 different services, from the digital declaration to the application for an explanation of behaviour. In the discussions about the risks of electronic voting or about a large ICT project that does not meet the expectations, we sometimes forget that as a Dutch government we are at the forefront internationally. That is by no means a reason to pat ourselves on the chest, sit back or think: well, that will be all right. Well, I think it's okay to make that notion in advance. I'm gonna give you some numbers anyway. With DigiD, citizens can log into government and healthcare websites. Currently, DigiD is used by 13.6 million Dutch people, who logged in about 280 million times to public service providers in 2016. This is about personal data, so it has to be true, it has to be reliable and it has to be safe. Unfortunately, for many of the future services, DigiD's current security levels are not safe enough. If we continued to use DigiD as the only available login, we'd get stuck once. So we're gonna have to work on that. We're gonna have to protect it from malfunctions, hacks and burglary. The consequences of crippling such systems are immense, socially speaking. I am well aware of that. So that means we can't be light about that. We're working on improved credentials right now. When available, they will be implemented step by step, with the level of information that can be disseminated at such a level that you can actually communicate with patient files. This will also lead to greater effectiveness and lower costs in the care sector. So you're gonna need that extra security. That's being worked on right now. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the responsibilities of the government as a whole, it is important to set frameworks. Of course, we do not own all these projects. As a ruler, I am not responsible for all these individual projects either. This is why I am currently working on the General Digital Infrastructure Act, which will be sent to the Council of State for advice before the end of the year. I intend to submit the law in this Chamber in early 2018 under the name of the Digital Government Act. That'll cover the load better, I guess. In fact, that law includes all the rules of the game for the digital government and how we set up services between citizens and businesses. I hope that the Chamber will support the importance of this law. I have actually heard that in the first term, so that we can have an early debate. There are more ambitions for 2018. Next year, some 1.3 million driving licences must have been issued with a renewed DigiD chip. This will allow citizens to log in at the highest level of reliability in the coming years. Such a chip is also developed for our national ID card. This new eNIK will be ready for issue to citizens by the end of 2018. For this, I will submit a separate amendment to the Passport Act to your Chamber before the summer of 2018. Mr. Chairman. This year, the National Ombudsman has called attention to the fact that many citizens are not yet able to communicate digitally with the government. Many of you, including Mr Van der Molen, Mr Middendorp, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Den Boer, asked for this in similar terms. This is a real problem. What we see here and what we also see in the SCP report is a division in society between people who can participate in that digital development and people who can't. I believe that as a government we have a duty to be illiterate and not to be able to read the forms, people can be less able to act, people can have missed the whole era of technology. That's important. This is no reason to choose not to participate in this digitisation. I don't think this is a choice. We have to go along with it. The government cannot continue to lag behind in this development. But I will say that I am really going to see how we can deal with this with a coherent package of measures. That could be through a letter, that could be through personal contact. A number of Members have made suggestions. I would like to take this into account in the official policy response to the Ombudsman's report, which I will forward to the Chamber this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u88	I see Mr Van der Molen at the interrupting microphone, but are you done with this first point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u89	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u90	Then I'd like to propose that we finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. With this we strengthen our services in different forms. It will become more diverse and it is very important to take the developments that we are facing into account. This means that I want to actively participate in all kinds of platforms in which these new technologies are discussed in the near future. Officials will also be involved. That was also discussed: how do you keep and bring in good people on this subject? That means the government won't stand on the sidelines. The government is going to participate actively. All this is part of my orientation. After three weeks, I don't have it all in a row. But I will inform you more about all these initiatives at the beginning of 2018. Mr Middendorp asked about my ideas about a powerful virtual government, because digitisation offers many opportunities for participation and democracy. Indeed, he is right, and this can result in people being informed more quickly and also being able to mobilize more quickly. Think about the e- petition. Politics can be achieved more easily. As a result, participation has become more low-threshold. We can also reach large groups for consultation via the Internet and social media. However, the quality of this consultation depends on the actual online participation of a representative group of people. Experience shows that online communication and consultation on specialist topics often reduces the level of participation by citizens, as experts are dominant in it. In addition, we cannot, of course, rule out the fact that, for example, in the case of elections, these panels are influenced by a targeted approach to coloured information. So these are things you have to take into account. The creation of these conditions and the establishment of good frameworks is very important, but it fits in with the line and ambition I have to look at the possibilities in this area too. Mr Middendorp then asked how the cabinet sees the coordinating role of BZK and what the plan is to bring together the digital forces within the government. What is the role of the Digi Commissioner in this? This coordinating role consists, in particular, of bringing together parties active in that digital government world. These are, of course, the local authorities and the organisations that represent them. At the moment, under the direction of the Digi Commissioner, governance for this generic digital infrastructure has been set up. The goal is to join forces, to have alignment. This does not always happen from the position that we here in The Hague decide what needs to be done. I very much believe in a dialogue, including with other governments, to come to certain steps together. But it is necessary, and I would like to take up that role, to take the lead and bring parties together. I think there is also the strength in that from the content and also from the conviction. To impose things without people being convinced of them rarely makes sense, so is my experience. In January, I want this new governance to enter into force. Until then, the digi commissioner will be active. He'll offer the report. There will be a number of recommendations for this new governance. I will, of course, study it and then inform the Chamber. Mr Verhoeven, who has now arrived, asked how I am going to ensure that we see less failing ICT projects in the coming years and what task I see for myself. I've been working for three weeks now. I know from the past, also from my role as a Member of Parliament, that having been on the other side of a number of ICT projects, the ambitions that were often displayed in them were not always realistic. I think that's the beginning of the problem. If you formulate towering ambitions, where you put a kind of basket in the middle where everyone can drop their wishes, and then say to a techie, "go ahead and make it," we're already creating almost an inherent failure. So I am also in favour of realistic steps, starting with the question: why are we doing this and who are we doing this for? That's the first step you have to take. But I am also in favour of realistic planning and clearly defined commissioning. And of course there's the BIT. That has so far been extremely successful, I can say. It is widely used and has already performed more than 250 tests on 64 different projects. The BIT, as an independent institution, can also advise us on where it goes wrong. I cannot answer the question how I am going to prevent it from going wrong; I can only say what my measures are. Things will always go wrong. Don't forget, too, that large ICT projects sometimes fail in business, which is not so much made public. Soon the impression will emerge that it is not going well with the government. I think it is also about political direction, including from the Chamber and from the Cabinet, and I think it is very important that you plan realistically. That is also absolutely my ambition. With this you cannot rule out that something is going wrong, but you can actually and significantly reduce the chance. I'm coming to the BIT. Mr Van der Molen asked about the future role of BIT. I think everyone agrees that BIT has played a very important role to date, even though it has not existed for so long. It's basically a temporary facility. Let me say straight away that, as far as I am concerned, BIT will still exist for a while if I look at the scope of this cabinet. It can really play a role in ongoing and future projects. The role and results of BIT will be evaluated in 2018. The final evaluation will be in 2020. I also think it would be a good idea to wait for these evaluations, to look at them and, on that basis, to decide whether or not BIT should become permanent. Mr Verhoeven asked me if I am in favour of the principle of "open source unless" and if I am prepared to take over this in the prevention of failing ICT projects. He also asked me if there would be one digital window, where people would see which open source software is available. The choice of software is made on the basis of business aspects. In the case of equal suitability of software producers, open source will be chosen. The disclosure of software developed with public money is an incentive for ICT suppliers to deliver quality. Others can use the software again for follow-up steps, for new ideas that build on them. That's definitely an advantage. But there are also disadvantages. When you talk about open source, which others can also use, you will have to put even more emphasis on a higher level of security, because the code becomes known to a large audience. Following the motion by Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Raak, my predecessor announced that he would take up the subject of "release of government software as open source software." I intend to have a policy vision on this subject, not just something to decide overnight over the next few months, but I hope you will be able to call me to the Chamber before the summer. I will also address the issue of the digital public service window, which Mr Verhoeven specifically asked for. That brings me to the end of the digital government block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u92	Good to see an ambitious Secretary of State in this area. I will come back to the discussion about people who are not fully able to participate in the digitisation process. It is good to hear that you are also talking to other governments about digitalisation, but I would ask you to discuss this issue with those authorities as well. All these governments are faced with considerations such as: do we have to keep a window open or can it be closed? Can we deliver at home and what gets in our way? Can I have a commitment that you will also look at this subject as well as whether you will function as a single government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u93	Yes, you can ask me to do that and address it. At the same time, I am very much in favour of subsidiarity and of practical solutions. So I don't intend to tell any city what to do. What I'd actually like to say is that they're arranging for them to solve the problem of those unattainable people, those people who can't use new technology. If one municipality opts for this option and the other for another, I'm fine with it. As long as it's workable. So no blueprint from above, but a well-thought-out city council of course looks at workable and less workable options that have also been tried by others. You will, of course, use each other's best practices. But I'd say let creativity go. Think out of the box. Maybe come up with unconventional solutions. Anything that works is allowed. At the same time, of course, we are going to make things more accessible in the digital sense. I don't know if that's advertising, but think of an iPhone, for example. There's some very complicated software behind that, but three-year-olds know exactly how that thing works. So you can develop on the technology side, but it can also lead to a personal conversation or the stationery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u94	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u95	I like this attitude towards other governments. If the Secretary of State is talking about digitisation, I would ask him to discuss this issue with each other and, above all, to hear from municipalities what obstacles we still have to create certain new forms of service. For example, home delivery is such a point. That is what the municipalities want, but as the BZK now makes it possible, it is sometimes very expensive. One doesn't matter for that reason. Those are the points on which I do expect the Secretary of State to look at what we can do to better regulate this for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u96	I'm sure you can expect that from me. I will pass on this point in my role as administratively responsible to the local authorities and also to the national authorities, where, of course, there are good and bad examples of communication and accessibility. I think that we should focus above all on those good examples in order to learn from them. At the same time, we must appeal to those who are left behind. I really think of that as my role, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u97	The ambition comes out. That strongly supports the VVD. At the point of bringing together the parties that are active in that world, I was still looking for a further impact. You often see, especially in that world, that people talk about criteria, about processes, about everything, but sometimes nothing comes out. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he could explain that a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'm not someone who meets to meet. That's not my style. I am of the practical solutions, as I said. That is also what I see as my role, to encourage parties to put forward these solutions and, at the same time, to appeal to people where it is left behind or where I get signals that it is left behind. Look, that digital government law is the legal framework that we have as government, but it actually contains the rules of the game that will be played afterwards. I'll have the role of referee or coach once in a while, just to take over the metaphor of football from the minister. Depending on the situation, I will assume that role. And all with the aim of closing that gap, which the Ombudsman describes. I will also have a meeting with the Ombudsman shortly. I will, of course, be working very closely with the Digi Commissioner very soon as he presents his report. I will report to the Chamber what I have already promised. The first consultation has yet to take place, so allow me to say that I do not yet have a fully coloured picture, but this is the attitude I have, also to others, to work with them. And it's a shared interest. It's not a counter-interest. It's really a shared interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you for that. Developing that a little bit further, for example on the issue of attitude towards cyber security, which is then with JenV. That will be one of the points that needs to be worked out. I wonder how the Secretary of State is going to deliver a shot in the crossroads in the coming period as a coach or as a cooperative foreman. What's that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u100	A shot in the intersection; that's nice. The question of how to put security in order is also part of the Digital Government Act. Cybersecurity belongs to the minister of JenV, but this minister also has a part in it; she has just said something about it. It's part of me, too. I am mainly responsible for how the government deals with this in its contacts with citizens and businesses and how we put it away in a good way. Of course, the aspect of cybersecurity plays an important role in security. I call hacking, state and non-state actors and crime. All this has to do with the level of information you can spread. The general expectation is that more and more information will be disseminated and sent in this way. I have just mentioned the example of health care. The encryption, the security, will have to go up, because it's about people's privacy sensitive information. That is the path we want to take and the aspect of cybersecurity is dealt with. Of course, I will involve those leaders who are primarily responsible for this. I have not yet done so, because of course this has everything to do with the strategy on which I will be reporting to the Chamber at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u101	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply on the open source approach. I await that vision, as do the further eventualities around the window. It's nice to have a serious look at it at least. ICT realism appeals to me very much, so thank you for that. I am looking for the follow-up to what Mr Middendorp said. There are three CDAs in key positions when it comes to digitisation: the Secretary of State for the Interior in the field of government, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in the field of the economy and the Minister of JenV in the field of cybersecurity. How are we going to ensure that, unlike the previous cabinet, where the ICT sector was constantly saying "it is this, then here and there again," we are going to bring something of centrality into it? That's really the big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u102	I understand this question, because it's really about the steering issue. It is good to make it very clear where the limits are at the front. As I said, ICT projects remain the ministerial responsibility of the governing body concerned. So that's what he's doing and the framework. We have the independent BIT, the CIO Empire and the coordinating ruler, but that is without prejudice to the fact that this subject will always run right through everything, as with Finance, I would almost say. There is no department that has nothing to do with ICT or the threats to security. "Coordinate" is a somewhat vague concept in The Hague; I realize that. There are three directors primarily responsible for this. I would like to add the Minister of the Interior. It's all very close together, so that's easy switching. So there is no obstacle, I say in the direction of Mr Verhoeven. We are also looking for practical solutions. The Digital Government Act provides frameworks. The follow-up step of the Digi Commissioner, in which I myself will play a role, is very important in the direction. How do you bring parties together? However, there will always be a situation where different parties have their own responsibility for the development, management and implementation of ICT projects. It's not a hierarchical relationship. It is above all a role that is sometimes recognized by encouragement, finger-tapping and taking up a position through which there is coordination again. As a government, we should not work with a range of totally different strategies in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u104	That sounds good. The example that has just been put forward about fakenews will be dealt with jointly by the Minister of the Interior and JenV. I hope that in the future I will see combinations of ministries that deal with a particular subject with a digital component together, in the care, in education or in the defence field, you name it. Do I understand correctly when I say that is the way this cabinet wants to deal with the fight against digital fragmentation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes. Remember that there is very little legislation at the moment. It is really necessary that the Digital Government Act is quickly in force. That's exactly why we're rushing it. My predecessor has begun to do so and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u107	Then I come to the Basic Registration Persons, also called the BRP. Some of you have spoken about this. Here too, the system must work, it must be functional and it must do what it has to do. It is very important in our entire state system, I would almost say, that municipalities are doing their work on the basic registration of persons. For example, a reliable population administration is important in paying surcharges. It is also important that I have noted that the BRP operation as initiated by my predecessor, with great support from the Chamber, has been stopped, because there was an extremely critical report from the BIT. I am now faced with a number of final work of that programme. It's really stopped, it's actually stopped, but there's still some work to be done. This includes disclosure of those source codes. It is now very important for me to learn from this project. There's a lot of money involved in that. You could almost say that the return on this project is extremely low. I wouldn't say that's zero, but I'm not going to defend the fact that the return is high. So we have to learn from this. First of all, I want the services around the BRP, in which all the municipalities are involved, to continue. The current GBA-V, the municipal basic administration has been improved and can continue for a number of years. There is no acute need to put a new system on the table today, but I realize that with the continuing technology and the continuing threat from outside, that system will eventually be obsolete. So you're gonna need a replacement. I'd like to learn some lessons from what went wrong. One of those lessons I want to learn from it is that things have to be done in the right order. A committee is now being set up and that committee is going to look at where it has gone wrong, where things can be retrieved and claims can be filed, etc. I want to include the conclusions of that committee and the work of that committee in the choices that I am going to make afterwards for the follow-up. One of the things that also emerged from the Elias Committee and the BIT report is that you need to deploy these types of projects in a manageable and step-by-step manner. If you create too high ambitions too quickly and put down too nice wishful thinking images, the chances of it going wrong are very high. We have to prevent that. That's why I want to take my time. I realize the Chamber always wants to go faster than I'm turning in right now. But if we don't learn from this and don't do this in the right order, we'll create another problem. And the last thing I'm attracted to, that's my impression, is creating new problems. In fact, I can see that I have been given an important role in solving problems and learning from them. I will send a letter to the Chamber in January explaining the whole process as I see it for the coming year. As soon as the committee delivers its report, I will depend on it, so we will be more specific. I will continue to use the process, based on the lessons that have also been drawn by the BIT. This is how I got to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u108	Last week we had the budget Kingdom relations. I then told the Minister a whole list of examples of things that went terribly wrong thanks to KPMG. Now we are talking about the Basic Registration Persons and that has also gone completely wrong and again by KPMG and a number of other consultants. Is one of the lessons the Secretary of State draws from the past, with all these ICT debacles, that we should not leave all this to overpaid consultants? That the government itself should develop knowledge and skills, direct itself and not surrender to these kind of money wolves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u109	This has been extensively discussed in the Kingdom relations budget. There's even been a motion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u110	We did not agree, Mr President, but I am pleased with this question. That gives me the opportunity to reflect on this. This also affects Mr Van Raak's first-term speech on the Roemer norm, hiring and that sort of thing. I'd like to say something about that. That will not surprise you at all, because I have already said something about this in another gremium. The problem is that in a high-tech environment, government has to compete with industry to bring in good people. Sometimes you just don't have that knowledge in your house and you're gonna have to appeal to the market. I agree with Mr Van Raak that you should not surrender to third parties, that you should avoid getting some sort of vendor lock-in and become dependent on parties who send invoices for years, which we pay, which ultimately gets nothing. That's exactly the lesson we learned. But in these kinds of projects, you have to use outside knowledge. At the same time, you must try to bring that knowledge into your home. That is quite a challenge, I can tell you. For in general there is a shortage of this kind of knowledge and of the people who have that knowledge and the demand is great. Salaries are generally higher in business in this respect. So it's a nice challenge to bring people in. So you can't avoid involving the business community in this. But my goal is, and that's also a lesson from BIT: don't make yourself dependent on such a party so you'll be stuck with it for years without getting enough results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u111	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u112	But we hired a lot of expensive consultants, and it failed. Not only with the Basic Registration Persons, but also with the police, for example. In 2011 we already pulled the plug, because: all expensive consultants. And what happened? Now we have to pull the plug again in 2017, because: expensive consultants. The red line between all these failed projects is a little bit: the far too expensive paid consultants. And as for this Roemer norm, 10% of your staff costs, huh? 10%! So not 1% or 5%, but 10% you can hire for overpaid and failed consultants. Well, if it were up to me, I'd say that's a lot. So can the Secretary of State at least state that we are below that standard, but also that he sees the same red thread as me, among all those failures, among all those ruins, among all the hundreds of millions that have been thrown away, namely that these are failing consultants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u113	I am not going to bother to contradict Mr Van Raak on this point. But he only tells half the story. The alternative is that you wouldn't have those consultants, and the question is whether or not those projects would be successful. I doubt that, because you simply don't have some of the elements of that knowledge need. Honestly, the word 'DDR' has already been mentioned in this debate. It's an arbitrary and political standard. The question is whether it is still adequate. Now I am on the Minister's side, but she can intervene immediately, because we are speaking with one voice, of course. I have also said a number of things about this in the past that you might confront me with in this area, but I think that, if we think it should go along with these modern developments, the government should occasionally have the space to deviate from that standard in the case of special projects. Once again, I fully agree with Mr Van Raak that the unlimited discharge of business contracts is very dangerous. You always have to keep the direction in your own hands. And you have to try to get that knowledge into your house, too. Anyway, then we're back on pay scales, and then we're not allowed to pay bonuses from the SP again. It's two-and-a-half. If we want to do it ourselves as a government, then we must also be prepared to bind those people to us. And that is at odds with the line the SP uses, for example, with regard to state personnel and that sort of thing. So it is too simple what Mr Van Raak says. It's not false, but it's not the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr. Van Raak, you were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u115	One more remark: the solution is to gain knowledge yourself, to create pools, to develop knowledge yourself, to keep knowledge in, to keep networks in. If we had done that with the police in 2011, we wouldn't have had such big problems today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u116	When I first received a letter from the Minister, I read it with great interest. It said, "We're about to see how we're going to make the BRP future." The second letter said that again and in the third it even said that a committee was going to make a plan to make the BRP a future. I'm skipping a piece, but in the last letter it was about a committee that was going to look back. I think that's good. The Secretary of State has described very well what is needed; he gives a sharp picture. But what are the preconditions for the interim period? Because we have been working on it for a long time now and we are now looking back at it very extensively. That's good. I fully agree with the lessons that we are going to learn from this, but for the plan that we are going to make, we also need to define conditions in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yes, of course, as I say in the direction of Mr Middendorp. But I have come to talk about this; I have promised. I believe that the results of that committee should certainly play a role in the question of how you are going to proceed. A committee that only looks back, I would almost say, is superfluous. Because looking back is fun, but it's much more important to see how we're gonna do it in the future. In the end, therefore, there will undoubtedly also be recommendations from that committee on how to do this successfully and what lessons you can draw. We're crazy if we don't use that. Or we don't set up that committee and the Chamber says: none of that is necessary; we just keep on going. I believe that this committee has added value, but then we should also make use of it. I will also mention in that letter in January how that process is going to proceed. I admit that I will also take the Chamber with me in the further development. What I don't want is to report to the Chamber every time that something has slowed down and that things have changed. As a Member of Parliament, I would also be extremely irritated by that. I've looked back a little bit on how communication on this file has been between the department and the chamber, between the minister and the chamber, and that's what I don't want. The Chamber will also have to know the role. The Chamber will have to set the frameworks. The Chamber certainly has an important role to play in this. I would also like to discuss the results of the report with the Chamber, but we need to ask the questions at the right time and also answer them at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u118	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u119	Of course I agree, but that committee consisted of looking back and a plan. We all agree that it would be very awkward not to use those lessons from the committee right now, but I think it is necessary to continue with a plan now. In fact, everything that has happened so far in the communication between the Chamber and the Minister has been very much about details. I have often missed that, because then we said: now you have to stop; now you have to set up a committee and now you have to split up that committee. So the question remains: is a plan being drawn up in the coming months and what are the preconditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's a good question, but I can't answer it right now. Then I would be careless and I haven't completely built up that picture. I'm gonna take my time for that, too. You can assume that if that is the portee of Mr Middendorp's question, we will of course not be sitting on our hands in the coming months. We are, of course, going to settle the old process in order. I have also promised earlier that you will receive a letter on this subject and also on the source code this month. At the same time, we will continue with that process. I think that the letter in January will answer a number of questions which Mr Middendorp is now asking; at least, I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u121	At least that was the portee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u122	The Secretary of State is very ambitious when it comes to tackling this BRP and digitisation; that is at least how I hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u123	Enthusiastic, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u124	I hope that this also applies to the direction of the process, because we have seen that in the past there has been a bit of non-committalism in the direction of the process. Is the Secretary of State willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u125	I think this is exactly one of the lessons you should learn in such a big project; it's a big project. Those who are involved simply say: it has to be delivered. But these are quite complex processes. We need to realise that in advance. One of the lessons is of course: how do you drive and at what times do you want to make a difference? That step-by-step element is extremely important, as is the ambition you set. So my ambition is to first of all have a workable "workable" with capital letters "workable" system that can move forward in the coming years. I shall come back to the role that the Chamber sometimes plays. That's how it works; I know how it works: then this has to be in it, then it still has to be in it and maybe this is fun to have too. Then it becomes very complex at once and the whole system doesn't work anymore. So I'd rather have a system of a 7 or an 8 that just works well and everyone is happy about than a 9 that dies in beauty and gets stuck after six months. That's pretty much how I'm in the game and how I'm trying to steer this project; again, with explicit knowledge of the lessons from the past. You call one of those lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u126	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u127	Then there is cross-border cooperation. The border region is not strange to me. That is also a very nice part of the portfolio. I've been on a local government myself at the border, and I know what you're up against now and then and what the odds are, by the way. That's exactly what I want to work for in the next few days. The former Minister Joseph Luns said: "The advantage of a small country is that it has a large foreign country." The Dutch border with Belgium and Germany is more than 1,000 kilometers long; 1,000 kilometers, yes. There are 7 Dutch provinces and more than 100 municipalities with 6 million Dutch people, who work, undertake or study there. For them too there are all kinds of opportunities across the border, as well as those opportunities on the other side of the border, in Lower Saxony, Nordrhein-Westfalen and Flanders. These opportunities are not sufficiently exploited. There are opportunities being exploited, but that can be even better. I am very excited to work on this on behalf of the cabinet with the governments that are already active there with all kinds of plans. There too the role is a bit: where is the problem, where can I arrange in The Hague and where can I arrange things with my colleagues abroad to solve practical problems? Mr Van der Molen asked about the broad list of action points and how I am going to take the lead in them. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about the problems in the border regions with the recognition of diplomas, the raising of pensions and the lack of additional qualifications in healthcare. Specifically, she asked me how I'm gonna take this and if I'm willing to take this. The last one anyway. I already have a certain picture in answer to the question of how, but I am also going to focus on this in consultation with the regional directors in the coming period. In any case, I can inform you that my predecessor in office, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has already taken the initiative for the intergovernmental action team on cross-border economics and labour in 2015. In it, regional and national authorities work together under the leadership of former Member of Parliament Mr Huizing. They have presented and launched 40 actions aimed at detaching and stimulating economic and labour affairs, for example in the fields of information provision, employment services, neighbourhood language and culture, diploma recognition, internships, apprenticeships, accessibility and entrepreneurship. Specifically with regard to care, it has been agreed that there will be a substantive comparison between the training providing individual health care in the Netherlands and the care provider in North Rhine-Westphalia. The Ministry of Education and Science carries out this comparison with the relevant ministries in North Rhine-Westphalia and with experts. It is expected that it will be completed in early 2018. That is a good thing, because then I would like to report to the Chamber on the first progress on cross-border cooperation. Diploma recognition and recognition of professional qualifications also lie with the colleagues of the Ministry of Education and Science. In the case of any new professions and training in which there are problems of recognition, I will, of course, include them. But I have to say, something's happening there. Looks like we're getting breakthroughs now, too. I also hear a lot of positive noises about the texts in the government agreement on cross-border cooperation; there were good texts on that point. This is also seen in the Länder in Germany and Flanders. I'm gonna take a lap along the border in the next few days. I'm gonna talk to all these people and to promising projects. I really want to act as an ambassador on that point. I really like to see there's so much involvement. I attended a meeting last night where a lot of local and regional leaders from the Overijssel region came to me enthusiastically with ideas they had and what they were doing. I'd like to facilitate that. In doing so, I can, like the Minister, point out to Mr Öztürk that this cabinet is not a Randstad cabinet. This Secretary of State will act for much of his time on the outskirts of the Netherlands read: the centre of Europe, where there are shrinking areas and border areas. This concerns matters that are in the Minister's portfolio, but also matters that are in the Agriculture Minister's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u128	I do not see Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u129	Öztürk's already gone. No, he's probably still out there somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u131	That was the heading for cross-border cooperation. Then I have one more point about real estate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u132	I actually wanted to ask whether this subject could not be dealt with in the WHO Living and Space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u133	If you asked me for advice, I'd say you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u134	How big is that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u135	Very small. It's under my wallet. I won't be with that WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u136	Oh, that's it. Then you'll just have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen asked about the lease policy. One question we answered in writing, but the other was whether more land could not be leased for a long time to... I am waiting for Mr Van der Molen to listen, because he is still talking to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u138	Are you guys done talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u139	You're a man, you can only do one thing at a time, I assume. No, you don't. I must now apologise to Mr Verhoeven immediately. So it's about the state spat policy. It is important to note that there are, of course, interests among farmers who want long-term security. At the same time, one of the cornerstones of the National Real Estate Company is to manage the capital of the government financially in a good way. It wants to be a kind of steward; that will appeal to Mr Van der Molen. But that also means that it wants to achieve a healthy return. In addition, these land is often owned in order to enable strategic projects in the area of infrastructure and nature and to avoid so-called no-regrets and also to serve as a compensation ground for other projects we are doing. Mr Van der Molen can imagine that we do not want to commit ourselves unnecessarily long-term in the regular lease. That's often hard to get rid of. The Pachtwet is in such a way that the tenant has a very strong position, so that a full-fledged business can be transferred from generation to generation. That is why we are now looking at other ways of doing this more flexibly. One of these methods is land leases, for example, but also leases under liberalisation standards, as Mr van der Molen also mentioned. This liberalization is not such a good idea for most farmers. In general, it is good for the Empire, because it generates higher yields, but also higher costs for the farmers. I would like to say to Mr van der Molen that I am going to review the entire portfolio of agricultural land, because that is what we are talking about here, and see which land is not covered by the category of land intended for compensation or intended for projects of strategic importance or which are used for infrastructure, nature or around high tide. On some of the grounds not covered, I would like to see whether the regime proposed by Mr Van der Molen can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you. That's where we ended up, right? You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u141	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u142	Don't invite Mr. Van der Molen to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u143	It is good that you all got to know me at the first budget debate. It was not so much that the Secretary of State provoked me, but that I was already trying to get out of the chair to tell the microphone that I was very pleased with his commitment and that there was some confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u145	Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yes, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u147	I have a supplementary question to the written answer on accessibility. At what point can we expect adjustments? I am very pleased to hear that the Secretary of State will look at the adjustments with the interest organisations. At what point can I expect the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u148	The Secretary of State may also return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u149	It concerns the accessibility of buildings, the legal frameworks we meet, but also UN standards, which go further in certain areas. I have indeed promised that I will see where we can take further action. You will soon be informed separately by me. Let me say: first quarter 2018 at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u150	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I want to suspend for a few minutes, because then we're going to have a VAO and then we're going to vote and then we're going to pursue the second term on the side of the Chamber and later on by the government.
