ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good that attention is paid to it at European level. It is also good that there is a set of Council conclusions which are discussed and, if appropriate, adopted in the Environment Council of 19 June. But all in all, we must note that the whole action plan and the Council conclusions remain relatively general and vague. That is why I am tabling the next motion to give the Secretary of State a clear direction from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the objectives of the 2020 EU Biodiversity Strategy need to be met and major efforts still need to be made;]] [[Considering that the forthcoming Environment Council of 19 June will adopt the Council conclusions which state that the action plan should contribute to improving the implementation of the nature directives and that it should be encouraged to achieve their objectives;]] [[calls on the Government, at the forthcoming Environment Council meeting on 19 June, to propose a complement and implementation of the action plan of the European Commission and/or any further Council conclusions on:]] [[the integration of biodiversity measures into the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, in line with Council conclusions 19;]] [[include in the guidelines, as mentioned in Council conclusions 6, quantitative intermediate targets for biodiversity in order to strengthen guidance and monitoring of results;]] [[the concrete efforts requested by the Member States to implement the action plan at national level, in accordance with Council conclusions 27,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has agreed to stop the loss of plant and animal species. There are several instruments for that. The bad news is this isn't gonna work out very well. The good news is that if we tackle problems at the source, we not only help farmers to work in ways that they themselves like more, but also make it a lot easier to protect nature. In the future, this may even mean that we do not have to maintain the rules as strictly and on the millimeters as we do now. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has agreed to stop the loss of plant and animal species;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the current use of chemical pesticides in agriculture and the large numbers of animals in intensive livestock farming cause a (threat) loss of plant and animal species, including important pollinators such as bee;]] [[whereas many farmers would like to switch to more animal and nature-friendly forms of agriculture, but often cannot escape from the current system;]] [[Whereas the common agricultural policy grants can be used to help farmers switch to natural and/or organic farming;]] [[calls on the government to use conversion subsidies for farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the two motions aimed at dealing with the Birds and Habitats Directive Action Plan at the Environment Council. In Mr Grashoff's motion to item No. 109 the government is invited to call for the action plan and/or any further Council conclusions to be supplemented and implemented. He mentioned three points in which he referred to Council conclusions. I assume he is referring to the draft Council conclusions that are before us next Monday. The points in which he asks for adjustments in line with the Council conclusions, namely the first and third points, are actually policy support. I intend to adopt and support those Council conclusions. The first point, the integration of biodiversity measures, is indeed contained in draft Council conclusions 19. The third point concerns the concrete efforts requested by the Member States, in line with the Council's conclusions 27. Moreover, it calls in particular for further support from the European Commission. So that's policy support. In the second point, Mr Grashoff asks for quantitative intermediate targets to be included. That is not in the draft Council conclusions, and that is not going to happen until next Monday. I would also like to outline exactly what the action plan means. The action plan is not a decision-making process. It is a communication from the European Commission, which has already been adopted. I cannot therefore call for this action plan to be amended. The most we can do in the discussion is to highlight certain aspects. I believe that the draft Council conclusions, as they have now been formulated for next Monday, are a good expression of the points which the Dutch cabinet intends to make and, in fact, of the points that Mr Grashoff has made in this motion. However, he specifically called for the action plan and possible further Council conclusions to be supplemented and fleshed out. I can't go along with that. So I must discourage this motion. In Mrs Ouwehand's motion to item No. 110 the government is invited to use conversion subsidies for farmers. That costs money, and this motion does not provide for cover. So I can't help but dissuade her. If the House were to adopt this motion, I would see it as an appeal to the next cabinet, because that will then have to make the budget available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	I do not think that we should enter into some sort of semantic discussion about what is meant by the word "compliant." It is clearly spoken of and asked for a tightening up and a supplement. I have just explained this very briefly; in a VSO, it has to be done very briefly. We think it is a good direction, but too general and too non-binding. The Dutch government should be committed to this. That's what we're asking the Secretary of State to do. The Secretary of State says, "I can't live up to that." But I suppose I'd like to hear from him that he says: I don't want to live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	No, that's not what I mean. Mr Grashoff wanted to clarify that now he also wants me or the Dutch cabinet to advocate tightening up the action plan. This does not fit in with this procedure, because the action plan has already been adopted by the European Commission. It is also a competence of the European Commission. It is not a decision of the Council; the Commission itself decides to do so. It is therefore also a Commission communication and not a proposal. There is no room for further tightening, supplementing or concreteising an action plan. If Mr Grashoff is trying to ask if I can put the emphasis on the points here, that is in line with what the cabinet will do. I simply do not see the inclusion of quantitative intermediate targets, which he is asking for in the second point, in the European discussions. It is therefore not very sensible to argue in favour of this at this stage. It is now a question of getting to work on what is ahead and of the Commission getting to work on its action plan. I would therefore like to encourage the Commission, on Monday, to take up the action plan and carry it forward ambitiously. As I said earlier, we will be supporting the points raised by Mr Grashoff in his speech on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally. It is not necessary, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, but I'll do it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Here's the thing. We want the Secretary of State to ask the European Commission to take a concrete, ambitious approach on these points and to underline this in the Council. That is exactly what we are asking. If he really wants to get on with this, he has three specific points to which this is addressed. He should say, "I'm gonna take it from here, and I'm gonna do it." Otherwise, the Secretary of State has to say right here that he doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is not possible to argue for an adaptation of the action plan. I've already said that a few times. The Action Plan is a Communication from the Commission. It's not up for approval. It's not a proposal. Nor do I think that the European Commission is not ambitious enough. The European Commission sets out an ambitious action plan. I'd like to call her to work on that. Mr Grashoff referred to Council conclusions 19. The Council conclusions set out important things, which are also important for the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy. I would like to underline that next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have tabled my motion because you can rig all the nature policy of the world, but because carrying water to the sea is if you do not also make sure that nature is not under too great a threat to the sea. Maybe the Secretary of State is misreading the motion. I have talked about the European common agricultural policy. That's what billions are about. So that pot of money is already here. Inside, you can argue in favour of switching subsidies, so that farmers can switch more easily, as they often want to. In doing so, we guarantee the underlayer a better nature policy. This motion calls for this. I'm asking the Secretary of State to look into the motion in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	So the motion concerns the future of the common agricultural policy, which is not on the agenda for next Monday's Environment Council, but which we may be discussing further in the near future. I have said many times that this cabinet's commitment is to achieve much more targeted spending with target subsidies, which is precisely about strengthening the social challenge. For example, you can think of nature conservation, nature conservation, climate adaptation and climate mitigation. Such social goals must be given a very strong place in the future CAP. As I said earlier, the draft Council conclusions for next Monday also state that biodiversity targets must be given an explicit place in the future CAP. That's an interesting statement. It is too early in the discussion to say how that actually works and whether you are translating that into switching subsidies or in another way. We must first see that we are achieving the goal and that we can achieve the conversion of direct income support to as many target subsidies as possible at all. If that is Mrs Ouwehand's intention, I would say that the motion is aimed at supporting policy, but comes into this debate a year or two too early in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'll take that as an encouragement. If this Chamber says that we can use the large subsidy pot of the European common agricultural policy to help farmers change, that would be a little support in the back of this cabinet. Once again, I am tabling the motion here, when I know that it is about European nature policy. But our point is that you cannot realize the protection of nature that you have in mind if you also do not help the farmers to switch to a way they prefer to work themselves and which is also better for nature. That's why I'm committed to making that link. And it would be a support in the back of the Secretary of State if the Chamber adopted this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'm just waiting to see what the Chamber does with that. It's the same direction the cabinet has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you. We are going to vote on the two motions tabled at 2:00 p.m.
