ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u1	I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the SP. He has a twenty-minute speaking time and I would like to point out to him that he is not obliged to complete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. To this day, 25% of all people in the Netherlands smoke. At the beginning of January, the World Health Organisation announced that smoking will increase the number of deaths in the world from 6 million to 8 million per year in 2030 and that costs worldwide will reach 1,000 billion euros per year. No one will deny that smoking is still a major social problem. One of the latest developments in the social fight against smoking is a declaration against four tobacco manufacturers, in which doctors have also shown their willingness to contribute to the costs of the proceedings; a new step in the fight against tobacco smoking. In parallel to this social struggle, cigarette producer Philip Morris has the nerve to ask the Secretary of State to relax the rules to advertise a new e-cigarette, the heatstick, which would be less harmful than the regular cigarette. A cigarette manufacturer who, on the basis of his own research, pretends to offer a solution to that large group who simply cannot stop smoking and who does so via a self-produced e-cigarette with nicotine: my neck hairs are going to stand up. What does the Secretary of State think of this shameless ad to use the heatstick? It feels like we're living in the era just after the war. I got that ad from Philip Morris from the Haarlem Newspaper right here. It says, "Good ideas? Stop smoking and go steam anyway!!! The New Smoking of Marlboro." I'm asking the Secretary of State to respond to this. Surely we can't tolerate this happening? I do not know if it is a provocation from the manufacturer and whether this is meant to deliberately provoke a lot of tumult. I would like to hand over a number of copies of this advertisement through the President so that all those present in this debate can take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u3	Suppose external scientific research would show that such an instrument, such a product, could indeed lead to a reduction in the smoking of the traditional cigarette. Could that be a consideration for Mr Van Gerven to say that this is perhaps a very good system to ensure that people get rid of smoking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u4	Then Philip Morris or another producer who markets an e-cigarette simply has to prove that it is an effective medicine or medicine to stop smoking. I would particularly like to invite those manufacturers to try to get their products registered as medicines. This can then be used to help people get rid of smoking. The practice now is that the use of the e-cigarette is increasing very much, but that smoking ordinary cigarettes does not decrease to an equal extent. There is even a degree of stabilisation. It seems, therefore, that it is not effective and that the suggestion made by Mr Ziengs is not the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u5	But if external science shows that it is, does Mr Van Gerven look at it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u6	Then I'm in favour of it. If it really helps to stop smoking, if it would have a similar effect to the nicotine patch for example, then let the manufacturer register it as a medicine. Let them do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u7	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u8	I would like these ads to be the last twitching of the tobacco industry and to mark the end of what that industry is doing, but unfortunately the practice is more rigid. Philip Morris' new e-cigarette remains a nicotine-containing product and is therefore extremely toxic. Once again, damage to the lungs is guaranteed. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we need to act much harder on this? Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that an approval procedure for new tobacco products is necessary? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that? Does the Secretary of State recognise that the European Tobacco Products Directive leaves room for the introduction of an approval procedure for new tobacco products? Isn't there all the reason why the heatstick should only be allowed as a registered medicine in the Netherlands, given the potential health risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u9	I see the commercial too. It's smart, because no health claim is made. That's gonna make it hard to do it another way. Mr Van Gerven referred to this as placing new tobacco products on the market. That's what makes it complicated. Does he indeed mean that the placing on the market of nicotine-containing e-cigarette products should be linked to a special procedure? I would like to make that clear, because that is one of the problems on this particular dossier. I'll ask questions about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u10	This actually applies to all smoke products. This is about the e-cigarette with nicotine, and of course it is about new tobacco products. The heatstick is presented as an e-cigarette, but is it an e-cigarette? This is not about burning, but about heating tobacco products. There is, of course, a great deal of thought about how this is presented. But it is about tobacco, the e-cigarette with nicotine and the e-cigarette without nicotine. With this bill, we are trying to draw as much unity as possible and to create clarity. Hence my proposal and my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u11	That is a clarification, but if Mr Van Gerven is talking about medicines containing nicotine, it is actually about reducing addiction. I just wanted to hear this for clarification. What we are striving for and in which we can find each other is that for new products, in which nicotine is used in any way and which come to people in a certain way, we need strict procedures and we should only want opportunities within medicines. Is that what Mr Van Gerven says?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u12	This certainly applies to the e-cigarette with nicotine. But you also have the herbal goods or cigarettes without nicotine that we are talking about today; of course they are not registered as a medicine. We are in favour of clear measures for this, such as not being sold to people under the age of 18, and all these things, because this could make it easier for young people to move towards smoking. And we absolutely don't want that. In 2015, a RIVM report will be published showing that both e-cigarettes with and without nicotine are harmful to health. Inhalation can lead to irritation and damage to the airways, palpitations and an increased risk of cancer. On the basis of the RIVM study, the Food and Consumer Authority considers that electronic cigarettes, with or without nicotine, are so unsafe that consumers should not use them for long and structural reasons. The RIVM report shows that e-cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking are also harmful. Dozens of years ago, the large-scale presence of formaldehyde in chipboard in homes led to great unrest, when it became clear that this posed a danger to public health. Then why is the alarm clock not sounded about the e-cigarettes in which, according to the RIVM report, formaldehyde has been found among other things? If e-cigarettes already lower the threshold for smoking for young people, what about e-cigarettes that do not contain nicotine? Until recently, the shishapen were to be won as a prize at the fair. Fortunately, the bill we are discussing today is putting an end to this. The electronic cigarette without nicotine seems to only lower the threshold for smoking. How does the Secretary of State view this? Does the Secretary of State also see that these products do not contribute to breaking down the tough image of smoking among young people, but can form a stepping stone to start innocently, as a toxic variant on the chocolate cigarette? Electronic cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking often contain flavour additives, making them particularly attractive to young people. We also think that this is undesirable. As far as we are concerned, the e-cigarette without nicotine remains a product that makes smoking attractive. Therefore, the use of e-cigarettes without nicotine should be discouraged and restricted as far as possible. What exactly does the Secretary of State do about discouragement? Is he prepared to take more rigorous measures? If it is up to the SP, the Secretary of State takes an example of Belgium, where as of 17 January this year no e-cigarettes with nicotine can be sold online. If I understand correctly, the same applies to cigarettes. I have a motion for a resolution on this, because I think that such a ban can very well help us with a policy of discouragement. I have a few more questions that I would like to clarify. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly who the producers of e-cigarettes without nicotine and the various herbal products intended for smoking are? To what extent is the production of this type of e-cigarette achieved by cigarette manufacturers? Where are the e-cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products for smoking currently available? What are the current sales figures for e-cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking? What restrictions are currently imposed on sales? What are the possibilities for excise duties to discourage use? Can the Secretary of State indicate the possibilities for a total ban? The Secretary of State states in the explanatory statement that the rules contained in the legislative proposal are proportionate because they do not go beyond the legal limit of adulthood. Can he indicate what this proportionality is based on? Why was it chosen to protect only minors from health damage and not the entire population? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that in the case of public health the broadest possible interpretation of the concept of proportionality is required? Through the amended proposal, the State Secretary creates the basis for establishing rules relating to the payment of fees. The possibility of levying fees was included in the previous amendment to the Tobacco Act. The tobacco industry is now responsible for the costs of reporting obligations. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many producers are involved? Can he also inform the Chamber of how much money we're talking about? Paying to the Dutch Food and War Authority may lead to conflict of interest if it becomes dependent on the income from those fees. In general, the SP does not consider it a good idea to make enforcement and assessment activities dependent on payments from industry. Although the butcher does not approve his own meat, he can influence the inspection by being financially responsible for it. How does the Secretary of State prevent NVWA from becoming dependent on this income? How is the independence of the NVWA secured? The following point is the own registration system for suspected harmful effects of the products. The Secretary of State states that there is no insight into the quality and accuracy of the data recorded in the own registration system of producer and importer. I find that rather shocking, I must say. Why are no requirements imposed on the registration systems of producers and importers? How does the NVWA then check the quality and accuracy of the recorded data? I'm just reminding you of the recent discussion about the shuffle cigarettes. Surely we should be able to rely on the dates of producers and importers? On this point, too, I have a motion in preparation. The SP is keen to support initiatives and measures that we believe will help to relieve people from smoking, to prevent people from smoking and to prevent people from being exposed to other people's smoke. Smoking and smoking are bad for health and we have to banish. That is why we support the idea that the e-cigarette without nicotine and all kinds of herbal products intended for smoking will be subject to the same rules as the e-cigarette with nicotine. We welcome clear and unambiguous rules because they will make it easier for people to know where they stand and enforcement. However, I urge the Secretary of State to raise the level of ambition further. It is our duty, as a committee of inquiry for health, to look in particular at the health effects. Although the harmful effects have been demonstrated, these products remain on the shelves. In fact, that is an absurdity that we must try to do something about. We can harmonise the rules, but that is the only way to achieve harmonisation. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to show some more courage and creativity to ward off those harmful products. The fight against smoking addiction and tackling that most deadly industry in the world really deserve top priority when we talk about public health. That must be the top priority of the Chamber and the cabinet together. We owe this to adults, but especially to our youth, for whom smoking addiction is a permanent threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u13	Mr. Chairman. A healthy lifestyle is primarily a responsibility of people themselves, but also concerns society as a whole. By investing in prevention and by discouraging an unhealthy lifestyle, we ensure that people stay healthy longer. The Christian Union wants our children and our young people to grow up healthy and free from addictions. That is why we believe it is the responsibility of the government to set a standard: smoking is not normal. Every year, 20,000 people die from smoking in the Netherlands. That's over 50 a day. Every day about 100 children start smoking. We can't accept this. If we dare to take new steps each time to discourage smoking, the next generation could be the first smoke-free generation. The Christian Union is therefore also strongly in favour of this bill to bring electronic cigarettes without nicotine, patterns without nicotine and refill packaging without nicotine as well as herbal products intended for smoking under the Tobacco and Smoke Goods Act. These products may seem harmless and harmless at first sight, but research shows that there are indeed health risks. In addition, these products can be the first step for young people towards real tobacco products. This step wants to be ahead of the Christian Union. It is therefore a good thing that the age limit of 18 years should apply to these products, that advertising and sponsorship rules should be tightened up and that a mandatory package leaflet should be included. Meanwhile, the tobacco industry is not sitting still. We seem to be overtaken by reality again with this law. My colleague Van Gerven has already spoken about it. Philip Morris has developed the heatstick, a product with high expectations. The heatstick should eventually even replace the traditional cigarette. According to Philips Morris, the heatstick releases up to 90% less harmful substances, because the tobacco is not burned, but is heated. This heatstick contains as much nicotine as ordinary cigarettes and is therefore just as addictive. The Christian Union has absolutely no confidence in this heatstick. We are concerned that it is already being publicly advertised, while the health studies are still ongoing. I would like to thank Mr Van Gerven for distributing that advertising. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Does he think that heatstick should be subject to the same rules as tobacco and e-cigarettes? In other words, does the underlying legislation also apply to the heat stick? Can the Secretary of State respond to Philip Morris' claim that the heatstick is 90% less harmful? Has Philip Morris provided the Minister or NVWA with data on the heatstick, as required by law, six months before its introduction? The Christian Union wants to reduce the number of places for tobacco sales considerably. If it's up to us, tobacco will only be sold in specialty stores. Places where many young people come must become completely smoke-free. An important step in the right direction is the display ban, which has been mentioned for several years. Because the sector has not been able to reach an agreement, this is now being regulated by law. At the end of December, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber that he was going to prepare legislation. Together with Mr Volp of the Labour Party, I would like to use this legal treatment to settle it already. That is why we have tabled together an amendment which regulates that tobacco products and related products that are sold should not be visible to the public, because research shows that the visibility of products encourages young people to smoke. It still needs to be clarified in the General Measure of Governance, but we think it is important to send out a clear signal now that the government will take responsibility where the sector has left it. Previously, we received support from the Chamber for the motions that have been tabled on this subject. We therefore hope that the House will support this amendment. I'm rounding up. Last year, a majority of the House supported my amendment to make all school squares completely smoke-free by 2020. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u14	I read the amendment. Do I understand correctly that it is the intention of the amendment that there should be a display ban, but that this should not be done at the same time as the present amendment to the Tobacco Act enters into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u15	The amendment includes an AMvB, in which we want to establish how we are going to regulate the display ban. That debate must be held before the display ban is carried out. We want to say that we're going to enter it, but how we're going to do it, we need to arrange and discuss it by AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u16	So the way we're going to do it is still being discussed. But the moment we do it depends on the entry into force of a new, third paragraph. So I must also read the part II in the amendment, which states that the time of entry into force'may be different for the different articles or parts thereof'. This means that the authors are mainly referring to the present amendment, which adds a third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u17	That is how I read it, but now that Mrs Keijzer is asking for it, I will look at it again explicitly with my co-author. Perhaps we can come back to that in the second term. But as Mrs Keijzer has read it, so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u18	Mr. Chairman. I signed in for 15 minutes, but I think we can be quite short tonight. The Labour Party welcomes this small step, because it is another step in the right direction. The legislative proposal ensures stricter rules for electronic cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products. It establishes clear, uniform rules on reporting obligations, packaging requirements, cross-border sales, advertising and age. We therefore support this amendment of the law. We still have a few questions for the Secretary of State. My colleague from the Christian Union, Mrs Dik-Faber, has already indicated that we would very much like to take advantage of this moment to take a step towards a display ban by means of an amendment. In recent years, we have jointly urged the Secretary of State to come up with a covenant. Mr Van Gerven also referred to it: the RIVM study shows that there are risks of the evaporation of an e-cigarette without nicotine. Are additional medical studies currently available to the Secretary of State regarding the effects of propylene glycol on human health? There is evidence that this propylene glycol, used in the e-cigarette, has an effect on lymphocytes, a certain blood cell. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether there is a progressive understanding of this. An important aspect is also whether there is sufficient capacity at the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment and the Dutch Food and Service Authority to carry out the checks required as a result of the proposed changes. We have had debates here before about the three strikes out measure, which the VVD considered very important, but the question is how often we come to these three strikes. Of course we prefer not to come to those three strikes at all because in practice parties learn from their mistakes. Can the Secretary of State indicate how often this measure has been applied in the last period? What does he expect of the present bill, the amendment, with regard to this measure? Will it in practice lead to this being the case more often? Then I come to the definitions. They are difficult, as Mr Van Gerven's interruption has shown. Is the definition of the new term "electronic vapour" sufficiently covering? Does a heatstick, for example, fall underneath it? If so, where does this prove to be? How does the Secretary of State view the definition in the international context? Indeed, we see in European legislation that this definition is very closely listening. Is this definition also being used in a European context? We also believe that the age limit for both electronic cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking is now being increased to prevent young people from using these products. I must honestly admit that I used my son as a decoy to see if he could win the e-cigarette at the fair with the shooting and that was indeed the case. I think it is a good step that he will not be able to do so at least until he is 18 and that it will not be possible to do so at all because it is no longer allowed to do so. However, it remains necessary to focus on an awareness campaign for young people and sellers, because they seem to be innocent products. They look like cigarettes and it's exciting and maybe cool. How does the Secretary of State view this? He stated that the age limit of 18 years would also contribute to combating the use of shishapins in primary schools. The Secretary of State has previously used the vlogger Dylan Haegens quite effectively to ridicule smoking. Can we expect a similar action against the use of shishapins or e-cigarettes? In November, the Secretary of State responded to questions from colleague Van Gerven of the SP on the so-called'shumble cigarette'. I have to tell you, I thought the Secretary of State's answers to these questions were a little thin. The questions were asked as a result of the declaration against the tobacco industry. In his reply, the Secretary of State states that the misleading information about the toxicity of cigarettes is worrying and that he has drawn the attention of the Dutch Food and War Authority to this possible violation. What is the NVWA going to do? Does the Secretary of State not consider it necessary to carry out further research into the effects of the laser-controlled holes in filters on the measurement method introduced by the tobacco industry? To be honest, I am surprised that we are all having a huge discussion about the emissions of cars and measurements sabotaged or manipulated by certain brands, but that this is not so effective. If this is indeed the case, I think it should be taken seriously by the Ministry of Health. So I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Secretary of State also stated in the reply that he found it worrying that consumers could come into contact with higher values than those measured according to the ISO method. Furthermore, he finds it worrying that filters have holes, because this does not make the smoking machine measure the correct values. I would like some more action from the Secretary of State on this. We want to prevent young people from starting smoking. This legislation is a small but important link in tobacco policy. Electronic cigarettes can help people who have a nicotine addiction from the ordinary cigarette, which is more harmful to public health, but we see the attraction that electronic cigarettes, even without nicotine, and herbal products intended for smoking, have on young people as a risk and that makes us vote in favour of this law. The tobacco industry also uses the e-cigarette in this way to seduce so-called replacement smokers. This can't happen. We want to go to a completely smoke-free generation and we want to prevent the new generation from starting smoking. This includes these clear rules. Prevention does not stop with this amendment of the Tobacco and Smoking Goods Act. Exposure of children to tobacco products is undesirable. They are very sensitive to brand recognition. The big yellow M along the highway, the bling suits, the display in the supermarket. Mrs Dik-Faber said that in the past we have indicated in several motions that these packages should, as far as we are concerned, be placed in a supermarket out of sight. They should not be displayed as an attractive product for children. The Secretary of State has tried to come to an agreement with the sector. That didn't work. With this amendment, we want to speed up the process in order to achieve a display ban in the supermarket in the shortest possible time. I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State and I expect a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u19	I hear Mrs Volp speak very rightly about discouraging the use of nicotine. She shows how bad nicotine is for health. I am always surprised when I hear such a party then plead for legalizing weed. How do you combine that with each other? I think most of the weed goes in with nicotine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u20	I have spoken on several occasions with Mrs Keijzer and with her colleague Mrs Van Toorenburg. For the PvdA, the main reason for legalisation is that, in the current construction, it is now unclear where it is produced and which substances... pesticides........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is now no clarity about the composition of the product. We still believe that young people under the age of 18 should not be used, but it is our main concern to ensure that there is clarity about where it comes from, how we monitor and how we see the use, with very clear warnings. That is why we are in favour of legalisation. The CDA takes a different view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u21	I have an idea that this is a different debate than the one that is on the agenda today. However, I would like to offer Mrs Keijzer the opportunity to ask a very brief further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u22	You're right about that. The naivety of the argument on the basis of which weed cultivation should be legalized is not discussed today. But it's still special to hear parties constantly and rightly fuliminate against nicotine and then to see them operate on another subject like this. But for the moment, it's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u23	I think we will be discussing this very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u24	Then we're gonna go through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u25	I have one more clarifying question about the amendment. The Secretary of State always talks in his letters about a display ban for the entire industry, including specialty shops and service stations. I hear Mrs Volp say and see in the explanatory statement the amendment that she wants to exclude the special cases at least. But what about the gas stations, for example? Of course, those are 18-plus environments. They are not mentioned in the amendment. Does Mrs Volp want the amendment to implement the motion tabled last autumn, which really specifically monitored a display ban in supermarkets? Does she give the space to the companies I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u26	I understand Mr Ziengs' question very well. The purpose of our motion and also the purpose of the assignment that Mrs Dik-Faber and I gave to the Secretary of State is precisely to prevent young children from getting in touch with the packages. We know how sensitive these kids are. This is evident from all kinds of investigations. We have also noted that in the letters we received on progress there seemed to be a widening of places where the display ban should apply. In particular, through the AMvB, I want to ensure that in supermarkets that are not primarily dependent on the sale of tobacco products in the broad sense, those products are withdrawn, especially because children come there. I can imagine that we should take into account petrol stations and tobacco shops that are more dependent on the sale of this product for their total turnover. Its impact is important. We also have the combined cases. You and I both come from the station and see the shops where the Donald Duck is sold, but where there is also a huge wall of all kinds of tobacco products at the cash register. There's kids coming. We need to make very clear agreements on the definition of what the display ban should be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u27	The SP stated in its argument that it was in favour of banning the sale of e-cigarettes via the Internet. How's the PvdA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u28	As with ordinary tobacco products and alcohol, e-cigarettes and online sales must ensure that the right product information is provided and that it is not sold to young people. I believe that a total ban is difficult to achieve, because under the conditions we are now setting, we are keeping the possibility of selling the product. Perhaps we could ask the Secretary of State to give his assessment of this. However, I do not think it is real. Nevertheless, I believe that, when selling online, we should pay particular attention to the proper enforcement of the rules in, for example, selling to minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u29	One of the reasons why we are in favour of a ban on online sales is that it is better to maintain the age limit but also to reduce sales points. The more outlets, the greater the chance of more sales and more use. I mentioned Belgium, because it restricts sales via the Internet. If it is clear that this is legally possible, does the PvdA not think that we should develop this or at least examine how this can be done as well as possible to limit sales through these channels or to stop them altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u30	On that last part I can say yes, but for the first part, i.e. a ban already, I need a little more information. If Mr Van Gerven says that Belgium is looking at this or that this is already happening, we must use this information. On the other hand, selling online is also a legitimate way to sell products, including for other products subject to rules. These rules, as we now lay down in the amendment, also apply to sales online. The question is whether the end justifies the means. We'll shut it down completely and it's a question of whether that's what you want to achieve. It is up to the Secretary of State, but an inquiry into this seems to me to be very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. The bill brings electronic cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products for smoking without nicotine and tobacco under the action of the Tobacco and Smoke Goods Act, as well as the electronic cigarette and the herbal products with nicotine. The reason for this is that the fumes of electronic cigarettes without nicotine release harmful substances. For herbal products without nicotine and tobacco, however, the product is incinerated and the smoking of herbal products sometimes has even higher tar and carbon monoxide levels than regular cigarettes. The government also sees the multitude of taste additives in e-cigarettes and herbal products as a risk for young people to start and fears that this will reduce the transition to real work. The government proposes the following detailed rules: age limit to 18 years, tightening advertising and sponsorship rules, packaging requirements, product requirements and reporting obligations. It is therefore all about the alignment of the products without nicotine with the products with nicotine. We can therefore support this amendment of the law. There will be a general consultation on smoking on 15 February and we will be able to discuss all the other points of view further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u32	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a new chapter in the Tobacco and Smoking Goods Act: aligning the requirements for the sale of electronic cigarettes without nicotine and herbal products for smoking with the requirements for traditional tobacco and smoke products and electronic cigarettes with nicotine. Although the electronic cigarette can provide a solution to the debilitated smoker, there appears to be health risks associated with this type of smoking. That is a good reason to align the demands. The age limit of 18 years has been endorsed by the VVD in previous debates. Smoking among young people must be avoided. When you're an adult, you choose. It would be wiser not to smoke. But as an adult, you have the right to make unwise choices. In the debate on smoking, I would like to highlight the role of entrepreneurs. Tobacco specialty shops, petrol stations and supermarkets have shown better compliance rates over the past year. They take responsibility and thus make an important contribution to the prevention of smoking by young people. The VVD has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the position of entrepreneurs who respect the rules in relation to entrepreneurs who do not take the rules too closely. Therefore, on the initiative of the VVD, the law provides that a sales ban is to be imposed in the event of repeated infringements. If you screw up three times, the sale of smoke products is over. That's clear. If the sales ban is actually imposed, it is a heavy penalty. How often has this sanction been imposed? Can the Secretary of State indicate how many times an entrepreneur has been caught failing to comply with the rules for the first, second or third time? Mrs Volp has already drawn attention to this. The Secretary of State has chosen not to consult because he believes that a consultation can raise false expectations among entrepreneurs. However, this law lays down specific requirements on the quantity of products that a specialty shop should have at home. The packaging requirements are also mentioned. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it is possible to draw up rules for entrepreneurs without asking the same entrepreneurs if these rules are logical and workable? If the Secretary of State has not spoken to entrepreneurs, I would like to know who has spoken to. How has it been established that these are the rules we need to prevent smoking among young people? Or did the Secretary of State fail to consult and just figure out for himself what the best solution is? Can he indicate how the NVWA will shape enforcement next year? Will the emphasis on controlling sales to minors shift to the counting of packages? If that is the case, does the Secretary of State share the VVD's view that this is the wrong priority? If you want to prevent young people from getting cigarettes, maintaining the ban on selling to minors is more effective than counting the stocks. I would like the Secretary of State to endorse the VVD's premise that sales to minors should be combated effectively. We do not achieve this by inventing new rules, especially because we have included in the law the severe sanction of the sales ban. By prohibiting entrepreneurs who go wrong, you give a clear signal to all entrepreneurs who sell tobacco: selling to minors is not allowed in the Netherlands. It's not more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u33	This sounded very hopeful. In particular, Mr Ziegs wanted to focus on the sale to minors in the context of how entrepreneurs deal with the sale of this product. Does Mr Zieng agree with me that it would be most effective for enforcement if you further reduce the number of outlets? Perhaps you should focus in particular on tobacco-related matters, as is also stated in this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u34	The crazy thing is that it has never been shown that if you create fewer outlets, then there is less tobacco being sold. Mrs Volp is referring to the question of whether it is easier to check. The NVWA is already visiting those cases, which is also mentioned in the State Secretary's documents and is already required to carry out checks. Reducing the number of outlets does not directly contribute to the sale of less tobacco. That's never been established. That is why we are not directly in favour of reducing the number of points of sale. However, we do want good enforcement to be ensured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u35	I was referring in particular to the sale to minors. Let us be clear: the capacity of the NVWA is not inexhaustible. Mr Ziengs' question about the three strikes you're out is also exactly why I ask that question, namely: how often does this actually happen in practice? Again, my question: could fewer outlets lead to better control of sales to minors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u36	If you have fewer outlets, then of course less control is needed. But in addition, it is the entrepreneur's freedom to start a business and sell such a product. At least I wouldn't want to restrict that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u37	Mr Ziegs says that there is no link between the number of points of sale and the use of tobacco. He says this hasn't been proven. I think there's a connection there. But let me put the question as follows. If there are a lot of tobacco shops around a high school, is the chances of going there greater, smaller or the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u38	That's a "if-this or if-that" question. Then you get the same discussion as: when you have a cafeteria nearby, people often go to the cafeteria? I believe that we have already arranged with the schoolyard ban that there will be no smoking there. I think schools generally also have rules that you can't leave the schoolyard. So I don't see the connection directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u39	There is a very clear connection. The greater the supply, the greater the likelihood that it will be used. That is an economic law. McDonald's, just to make a small turn, has the starting point: a McDonald's everywhere within walking distance. That's not for nothing, because the closer it is, the more it's sold. It applies to food, but is it not likely that tobacco products will be the same? Once again, tobacco products are extremely addictive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u40	I think you can explain such an economic principle in different ways. If McDonald's has as a policy to be reached within walking distance, so you can eat a hamburger there, I'm sure you will. But that doesn't mean that more hamburgers are being eaten, because it is likely that there will be less meatloaf somewhere else. You keep eating the same amount, but it's about what case you're going to. I think that's the policy of establishing a case. So one can be completely separate from the other, I assure Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u41	Your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u42	Yes. My final point concerns the amendment tabled just now by my colleagues Volp and Dik-Faber. This sees on entering a display ban for supermarkets. I ask the Secretary of State: should this not be regulated through a legislative process so that the Council of State can be consulted and the field consulted? Previous reports show that the Secretary of State is preparing legislation to extend this, including specialty shops and service stations. I have just asked Mrs Volp how she sees the amendment, but the specialist shops and service stations were only briefly in the Ministry. They're actually getting messed up. As far as we are concerned, the way in which these sectors have been dealt with does not deserve the beauty prize. That's not how you deal with these little entrepreneurs. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make an exception for those mentioned specialty stores and service stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u43	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is in favour of a broad tobacco discouragement policy. Smoking is addictive and sickening, not uncommonly serious. In recent years good steps have been taken to ensure that fewer young people start smoking. Good chance this is the last bill from this Secretary of State in this area we're dealing with. That is a good time to congratulate him on the commitment he has shown in the area of tobacco discouragement policy. However, as far as the CDA is concerned, there is still much more to be done, but we will continue to talk about this in the general discussion on tobacco policy next month. The bill we are discussing today regulates that electronic vapours without nicotine are also brought under the Tobacco and Smoke Goods Act. The minimum age limit for electronic cigarettes without nicotine, for example, will be 18 years, the rules on advertising and sponsorship will be strengthened and packaging requirements will be introduced. The CDA supports this bill because research shows that these products are as harmful to health as ordinary electronic cigarettes. I do have a few more questions for the Secretary of State. The letter of amendment makes it possible to lay down rules regarding the internet sales of the products we are talking about today. In doing so, the State Secretary states that it is reasonable to use an age verification system for domestic distance sales. What does he mean by that it's "reasonable" to settle this? I assume that this bill, with this letter of amendment, will simply regulate it. These verification systems are form-free. Does the Secretary of State understand the effectiveness of the different age verification systems? The compliance rate for home delivery channels is only 9.3% according to the report Alcohol & tobacco sales to young people 2016. Is that higher with the use of certain systems than with others? My final question is whether the Secretary of State can indicate how to monitor the minimum age for cross-border distance sales.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u44	The CDA congratulated the Secretary of State for his vigorous policy on tobacco consumption and prevention policy. Does the CDA therefore believe that distance selling of tobacco products, i.e. sales via the Internet, should be prohibited?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u45	I have to say I'm replacing Hanke Bruins Slot tonight. She's much deeper into this matter than I am. When I read these compliments to the Secretary of State in preparation, I thought to myself: that has happened very rarely to me. Anyway, it could be wrong. We all know those words. As far as the question of whether it should be prohibited is concerned, I think I'm going to sit on the safe side and say I'll check it out for you. I think there are some problems with it, because I have asked questions here about an age verification system. In my view, this already indicates that it cannot immediately come to a ban. It may just be that when I talk to Hanke tomorrow and ask her exactly what this is about, she says "yes" or "yes, if." I don't know exactly. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u46	I must say that I was wrong. Because I always thought that the woman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u47	Is there a compliment coming now? That's a little hard, isn't it, for a SP guy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u48	You'll have to wait and see. I'm building the tension. I always thought that the woman in front of me at the CDA was wearing the pants in the field of health care, but I do understand that that is Mrs Bruins Slot when it comes to appreciation towards the Secretary of State. Anyway, here's an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u49	Did you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u50	Last Tuesday I said: joke, Mr Sonnenberg. But somehow that doesn't work with the SP. Oh, sorry, you're also from the SP, chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u51	You better watch your back!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u52	That "joke, Sonnema" got picked up by a lot of guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u53	Sonnenberg, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u54	Sonnenberg it was, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u55	I propose that Mr Van Gerven ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u56	I understand that the CDA therefore leaves room to be in favour of a ban, so let me sum up. We are also going to have the debate with the Secretary of State. In Belgium it was introduced by law. I therefore propose that we follow that good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u57	I began by saying that we are in favour of a broad policy on tobacco discouragement. Over the past few years, we have not only been here in the Netherlands, but also internationally, we have been constantly moving towards more and more discouragement and we are saying more and more: boys, this simply cannot be done, you must ban this. The final answer to Mr Van Gerven's question may well be 'yes' or 'yes' at some point. The CDA has always had an eye for the small entrepreneurs, who otherwise just go over the top. We try to find the middle at that point every time. I myself have sometimes said that we should eventually go to plain packaging, or just those very boring, grey packages. But I also know that there were reasons not to do so when we discussed this last time within the framework of a European directive. Every time you try to take a step towards a policy that discourages more and more people from smoking and at least discourages young people. In fact, I think the most appalling thing is that young people continue to start smoking every day, for all kinds of wrong reasons. Anyway, that's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u58	I just heard Mrs Keijzer say she's standing up for the little entrepreneur. In my contribution, I have specifically called for attention to be paid to the service stations and the tobacco specialty shops. Can I count on the CDA's support for a safeguard for that type of company when it comes to the further requirements that are apparently imposed, including for the display ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u59	There's an amendment in front of it now. I just saw that. I have just asked in an interruption what the ultimate purpose of this is. Do you want to get it up and running right away? How are the conditions that will apply ultimately formulated? I think we should have the debate at that time. A display ban in itself is another instrument that can simply help. When I get to a supermarket and I see it almost there next to the Snickers and the gum, I also think: why? But we also need to discuss this issue with each other when this amendment is adopted and the General Management Measure is in place. The small entrepreneur is absolutely a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u60	In the example that Mrs Keijzer outlined, in which it lies next to the Snickers, she refers specifically to the supermarkets, but I understand from her answer that she does have an eye for perhaps another regime to apply, particularly to petrol stations and tobacco shops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u61	Yes. From the moment the General Measure of Governance is in place, we need to look closely at the way in which we are going to deal with this issue. I am convinced that we must finally move towards a situation in which our young people are protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u62	Honesty commands me to say that I did indeed send an app to the Secretary of State when a compliment came out of Mrs Keijzer's mouth, but I now understand that that was a conveyed compliment from Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u63	No, it's not. On this subject, it's deserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u64	Then I would certainly cherish it if I were the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u65	He can put it in his pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u66	Yes, we need to name this moment! Since you are replacing your colleague Bruins Slot, I will not go into very much what you have just said. We, your colleague and I, have jointly tabled an amendment which serves as a basis for banning those bling suits. We just had a VSO on that. In doing so, we have deliberately tried to formulate it so broad that plain packaging can also be included. The packets with warnings and ugly pictures of what smoking actually does to you are in fact new packages. Can I count on the support of the CDA to move to plain packaging more quickly, if this may be interpreted as such? Do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u67	I know about this discussion, and I also know that there were reasons not to introduce it immediately, so I do not feel free to say to Mrs Volp of the Labour Party now: yes, let us absolutely do it that way. I'm not enough on this file for that. I think it is absolutely something we have to go to in the future. Let's be honest: the more lurid the pictures, the more fun it is sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u68	Maybe it's okay if the Secretary of State tells us how big he thinks the room is. We just talked about it briefly. It would indeed be a necessary step to keep young people in particular from starting smoking. We know that this is an effective measure, combined with the displayban and fewer outlets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u69	These are all elements of a broad policy of discouragement. You're just gonna have to do that at the right moments, eventually to protect our children. I have five and I also have a number of family members who unfortunately died from cancer. I hope to avoid that for my children and, of course, for someone else's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u70	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked to take a short break. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u71	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u72	Mr. Chairman. A number of Members have indicated that the current legislative amendment is a small but important step to further discourage smoking and to align a number of rules for tobacco, the electronic cigarette and the electronic cigarette without nicotine. I think it is indeed a small but important step. Mr Van Gerven spoke about tobacco discouragement policy in general. I believe that we share the ambition to further discourage the use of tobacco and eventually achieve a smoke-free generation. So our ambitions are the same, but I also remember that they differed a little when it came to the smoking ban in the small catering industry. At that time I had a somewhat greater ambition than Mr Van Gerven. It is therefore good to keep each other sharp occasionally and to ensure that this remains in balance. In the past cabinet period we have taken about 30 large and small measures to further discourage smoking. So from the government we do what is necessary on that point. At least as important is the underlying social standard campaign, the NIX18 campaign. The purpose of this information campaign is not only to point out that these products should not be sold to people under the age of 18, but also to remind parents of their responsibility to inform children about alcohol, drugs and therefore just cigarettes, which are harmful and deadly. There is a great responsibility on parents to raise their children literally and figuratively at that point. The original bill was discussed with the Chamber when we discussed the implementation of the European Tobacco Products Directive. It entered into force on 20 May 2016. Today we are discussing the proposal to lay down detailed rules for the e-cigarette without nicotine, also known as "the shishapen," and for herbal smoke products. In fact, Mrs Agema said it in a very simple way: we are aligning a number of rules which make the rules more unambiguous and we are going to treat both the shishapen with and without nicotine and the herbal smoke products and the herbal products in the same way. In fact, Mrs Agema has called for this before. E-cigarettes are increasingly common in the Netherlands. In 2013, 2.5% of the e-cigarette was used. In 2014, this was 4% and the percentage of daily e-cigarette users increased from 29% to 44%. Young people also try the e-cigarette more and more often. Previous research has shown that 22% of secondary school pupils aged 11 to 16 have tried an e-cigarette. That was the case in primary school for a 5%. So there is reason enough to take further action. Mr Ziengs also stressed the need to protect our young people from dangerous substances. When used, substances such as propylene glycol, glycerol and aldehydes, which can also cause irritation to the airways, are released. Then I'll leave the still lacking insights on the heating of chemical fluids whose effects we don't quite know yet, just in the middle. I will come back to the studies that have been carried out and which will continue to be carried out in the future with regard to e-cigarettes. The introduction of the age limit of 18 years, the advertising ban, health warnings on packaging, a package leaflet with instructions for use, safety requirements regarding e-cigarette, sharing of ingredients and keeping track of suspected harmful effects are all measures already in place for nicotine e-cigarettes. These rules now also protect young people from the temptation to try the e-cigarette without nicotine. The provision to young people under 18 and the promotion of e-cigarettes without nicotine on fairgrounds are no longer permitted as from the law. Similar measures apply to herbal products and herbal smoke products. It is clear that the tobacco industry is not sitting still either. That's what it turned out to be. New types of tobacco products are being developed which are claimed to be less harmful than traditional cigarettes. In an initial response to the reports in the newspaper, I have in response to the question "they are less dangerous, aren't they?" Said I'm not a little State Secretary for Health, but I'm in charge of full public health. So it is not the case that all the rules that apply in this respect should not apply to products that are a little better. Heat-not-burn products still contain tobacco and nicotine, leaving them harmful to public health. It is therefore appropriate to discourage these products. We think it is important that young people do not use these products because they are still harmful to health. Smokers can still best stop smoking completely to prevent health damage. It is true, as Mr Ziegs said, Mrs Volp also said that e-cigarettes and e-cigarettes without nicotine can play a role in getting rid of addiction, but the heat-not-burn products still contain tobacco and nicotine, which makes the harmfulness different. RIVM monitors the development of novel tobacco products. As regards the products announced on the Dutch market, I asked RIVM to investigate further the user risks and their health risks. Mr Van Gerven asked what I thought of the advertising. At first glance, it seems to me to be contrary to the rules on advertising these products. I will therefore ask the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority to take enforcement action if necessary. I do not want to anticipate that opinion, but if Mr Van Gerven asks me to respond to a prima vista, this seems to me to be an advertising which is contrary to the rules laid down for that purpose. We will ask the NVWA to investigate this further and, if necessary, enforce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u73	I think that's excellent. I understand that a complaint has also been filed by society with the Food and Consumer Authority about this advertisement. Can we expect a response to this in the very short term, so that it does not repeat itself? If advertising is indeed contrary to the rules, it must of course stop immediately, also in view of the importance for public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u74	I would like to say to Mr Van Gerven that he will do so as soon as possible. We can do that in the progress letter Enforcement, which normally appears in spring, but if I have information earlier, I will certainly forward it to the Chamber sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u75	Just to clarify, because I too have seen this ad: I see that an entrepreneur did this. That seems to me to be quite simple, because I think we have a directive for that and we have agreed on it. Only now the suggestion is raised that it is regulated by the industry itself, but in my opinion this is really an entrepreneur who has placed an advertisement. And we've drawn up rules for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u76	That's right. And we have the Dutch Food and Service Authority to enforce those rules where necessary. So we'll ask the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u77	Mr Van Gerven once again, on another point, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u78	No, I'm still at the same point. I'd like to talk about the timeline. I was just talking to Mrs. Volp about that. There is a general consultation on tobacco and alcohol on 15 February. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will, at least before 15 February, inform the House of the state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u79	We will. I now come to a few specific questions. Mr Van Gerven asked whether we know who the producers of e-cigarettes and herbal smoke products are and whether tobacco manufacturers are among them. The Food and War Authority shall monitor producers, importers and sellers of e-cigarettes and herbal smoke products. The Food and Service Authority shall keep a record in the inspection database, including the inspection data itself. Whether tobacco manufacturers are among them is also known to the Dutch Food and Service Authority. Those data will be published on the RIVM website in 2017. In my introduction, I have already given sufficient consideration to Mr Van Gerven's question on what we are doing to prevent young people from using e-cigarettes. These measures, but also in general, I shall come back to them later on, are the rules that apply to herbal smoke products and also to e-cigarettes, in particular to discourage young people from smoking these products. Mr Van Gerven also asked a few questions about NVWA and its dependence on fees. I think it is good to point out that fees are paid for statutory audit tasks, but not for the enforcement tasks of the NVWA. The NVWA is therefore not dependent on those fees with regard to enforcement. By the way, I naturally follow the development of this enforcement and monitor with each other whether there is and remains sufficient enforcement capacity. All producers marketing tobacco products and e-cigarettes in the Netherlands should pay fees in 2017. This will therefore enter into force from 2017. The accounts will be sent at the beginning of 2017. That's why I don't have any money yet. In the coming year, we will be able to report these, on the basis of the invoices submitted and the proceeds, to the Chamber in the annual progress notes on enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u80	It is mainly about allowing and controlling products. Can't the Secretary of State give an approximate estimate of what amounts we should think about? If the NVWA were to be highly dependent on such means, it could have an impact on the independence of our supervisory body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u81	Of course, I have no reason to believe that there is or will be any influence. Of course, the independence of the NVWA must never be compromised. Therefore, fees refer to the legal task and not enforcement tasks. Perhaps it is good to inform the Chamber in the progress report on enforcement, of which I have already promised to send it in the spring. In this way, the Chamber knows better about these amounts. The specific question on excise duties concerns a broader debate: do excise duties work, to what extent can we decide at national level and to what extent internationally? I would like to have that discussion in the wider context of all the measures we can consider. I do not think it is right to take very specific positions on excise duties on a specific product that affect the overall excise policy. This requires broader consideration, which we should also conduct in the context of the general development of the policy of discouragement. Mr Van Gerven asked about the current sales figures. As from 20 May 2016, this shall be subject to a reporting obligation. We haven't all added that up yet. Next year we get insight into the market data. This means that I will include it in the annual report on the progress of tobacco policy that we are sending to the Chamber. On the advertising rules for the heat stick, I have noted what is necessary. A specific point in the debate was a general ban on sales. If we decide with each other that such products should not be sold to people under the age of 18, but to people over the age of 18, it is strange to distinguish between different types of sales. That would also be strange when it comes to equality of law, even when it comes to legal sales. This means that we do have specific questions about control. The control of internet sales will be more complicated than if you could request it with a simple identity statement or ID. It is difficult because online sales raise specific questions. I would point out that if we also want to ban cross-border online sales, this does not mean that all other countries make the same demands. We are therefore considering in Europe whether we can further harmonise the rules on enforcement in cross-border online sales. Now we are restricting ourselves to the rules on domestic sales. Mr Van Gerven asked questions about the requirements of the registration systems. There are no technical requirements for registration, but it must be reliable, safe and verifiable for the NVWA. If the NVWA had doubts about the reliability of the registration and there were signals about it, the NVWA could request the data. It will do so if there is reason to request it on the basis of the enforcement figures or other signals. The NVWA exercises risk-based supervision in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u82	Let me come back to the previous point: sales via the Internet. Is it true that it is legally regulated in Belgium that the sale and purchase of tobacco products and similar products at a distance is prohibited?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u83	I do not have that signal in these terms, but if Mr Van Gerven does, I will certainly check with the Belgian colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u84	I am asking for this because I understand that our own legislation, namely the Tobacco Act, provides for the possibility of introducing a distance selling ban at AMvB. I quote Article 13 of Chapter 2 of the Royal Decree, as published in the Belgian Official Journal of 3 March 2016. I understand it would go into this year. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that further? If we limit sales opportunities, this can be beneficial for tobacco consumption. Everyone can imagine that, except for Mr Ziengs, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u85	No doubt. The European directives offer an option to prohibit this. That's a choice that every country has to make. When we had the debate here on the rules we are going to make, we said: if it makes sense to ban sales under 18 years, this applies both to normal sales and to online sales. It would again require a lot of discussion if you wanted to move forward with legislation on internet sales. What reason is there for this, other than that you want to hinder Internet sales in relation to other forms of business? That requires another consideration that we have not yet had in this Chamber. It is good to see exactly what Belgium's proposal means and what its effects are. We can take that with us in the periodic review. We talk about the progress of tobacco policy every year. Then we will pay particular attention to the results that Belgium intends to achieve and see whether they are actually achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u86	I think Mrs Dik-Faber wants to take over, because we're doing interruptions in two tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u87	Okay, I'll get back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u88	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u89	I have a question about the State Secretary's comment on NVWA and risk-driven supervision. I can imagine that addictive products that come on the market are reported and examined by NVWA, which examines the extent to which there are risks to public health. I think that's a bit different from risk-driven supervision, but maybe I totally misunderstood. I would like a more detailed explanation from the Secretary of State. A concrete example is the heatstick, which should have been notified to NVWA six months before the introduction. What happens then? Did that application happen? Is such a product being completely investigated? Will a decision be taken whether or not to admit it to the Dutch market? I think that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u90	Two cases. There is a need to report, and this has been done, but there is no approval procedure in the Netherlands. There are good reasons for that. You can choose to do that, but we did not do that at the time, in consultation with the Chamber. Why? If you approve a product, you may unintentionally approve a product containing harmful products. Suppose there is a product on the market with tobacco, and there are harmful substances in it, on what grounds would you or would you not approve that product? New products are notified to RIVM so that research can take place. That's what happened here. By the way, we still need to get that information. They may give rise to further research into the harmful products and this may lead to measures. I would be reluctant to have an approval procedure for products where you will later find that there are harmful effects that you have not been able to foresee at the time of approval. That notification is there, so there is knowledge that these products are coming. Then you can know what's in it and then further research can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u91	I hear what the Secretary of State says, but I think this procedure is raging on all sides. I understand from the Secretary of State that RIVM is still investigating the substances in the heatstick. At the same time, there are claims from Philip Morris that the heatstick is 90% less harmful and there is already plenty of advertising, as Mr Van Gerven has shown. I get a very uncomfortable feeling, because there are still products that are still under investigation. There are products that are allowed on the market that we all know we no longer want and that you should stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u92	Let us make a distinction between a few things that we have discussed here. 1. There are rules for advertising. Mr Ziengs has also pointed this out. If these rules are infringed, they must be enforced. We will also look at the advertising that has just been mentioned. 2. In the Netherlands we have a registration procedure and no approval procedure. We do not have them because you do not want products approved by the State which later show that there are many harmful substances in them. Take the e-cigarette. Originally, the idea was that there were no harmful substances in it, that it was much better and would not cause damage. However, further research shows that smoking e-cigarettes may, under certain conditions, develop harmful substances. If you then have an approval procedure, you will come to a conclusion later because you want to take further measures on the basis of research. The system we have in the Netherlands is as follows: we have advertising rules, we have no sales rules and we have the registration procedure so that you know which products are on the market. The RIVM therefore has the possibility to examine those products and then take measures. That is what we are doing, for example, now, which has led to this proposal for a directive on electronic cigarettes. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked a number of additional and specific questions. I was just saying that RIVM did receive the information on heatsticks. So the RIVM is investigating that. We expect to be able to get that research report in 2017. Of course, the Chamber will be informed of this. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the heatsticks were subject to the same rules as the other products. Yes. Heatsticks contain tobacco. Therefore, the same advertising rules apply to these products as to all other tobacco products. That also leads to the point I made on that point. A specific question has been asked about the schoolyards. What's the status? Recent figures show that around 78% of primary schools and 53% of secondary schools have non-smoking schoolyards. The stragglers are at the MBO. In previous debates, I indicated that we are taking further action on this. I will answer Mrs Volp's questions. I would like to take a few questions from Mr Ziengs. Mrs Volp asked how the three strikes out measure actually works. As she knows, in 12 months you must have committed a three-time violation to qualify for the three strikes out measure. Under this measure, sales of tobacco products have been stopped seven times in total. In one company, the sale has been closed down twice. All companies complied with the imposed period during the closure. It is perhaps appropriate to point out that the enforcement letter, which we will receive every year and which we will receive this spring, deals in detail with all other enforcement figures, the number of inspections carried out and the measures taken, but also with this three strikes out measure. By the way, the NVWA will check more intensively with recidivists. This also means that more measures are sometimes taken. Mrs Volp asked if there was sufficient capacity to carry out checks. At the moment there is, but that does not mean that we will have to follow this very actively. Moreover, the measures contained in this legislative proposal make supervision a little easier. Because we do not distinguish between the e-cigarette with and without nicotine, they are produced, sold or used in the same locations and the research capacity can be used more efficiently. Together with the RIVM and the NVWA, we examine each year whether there are sufficient resources available. If necessary, we must adjust the budget accordingly. We'll follow that together every year. There is no need for additional measures at this stage, but, as has been said, we will have to keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u93	Seven times. On the one hand, this can of course mean that there is very good compliance, but what does the Secretary of State himself think? What's his impression of that number of seven? Is this also about the places where more intensive control, a second and a third control, takes place? Can the Secretary of State say anything about the degree of better compliance? On the other hand, it may give the impression that the chance of being caught three times in 12 months is minimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u94	I can speculate on that, but I think it would be good to have that discussion with each other on the basis of the total enforcement figures of the NVWA. We'll get it in the spring. Then we can see how many controls have been carried out and how many measures have been taken and what exactly is the result of this. Risk-oriented inspections took place between January and October 2016. At 16,800 catering companies, compliance with the smoking ban was taken into account in the context of food safety inspections; this was taken into account immediately. So I do not have the impression that little is being looked at. Let us look at the enforcement figures that we will get in the spring to see what we think of them and what we think of them. I do not want to speculate whether this is much or little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u95	Are we going to get an explanation from the cabinet so that we can talk about this, or are we going to talk about the figures freely? That explanation is important in view of the additional capacity we might want and its impact. The final effect must of course be that every entrepreneur and seller adheres to the agreements we make with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u96	Now that I know in advance that Mrs Volp will ask that question after receiving the letter, I will take this issue into account. Can we take the e-cigarette into a Dylan Haegs-like campaign? I am looking at how we can process the information on the shishapen and the e-cigarette in the prevention activities. It is good to see which target group is involved. I have indeed noticed that the use of young people such as Dylan Haegens can be very positive in terms of reach. That is what we will do when developing a specific youth website, perhaps with videos. I would like to see how we can make this whole thing whole with the existing campaigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u97	I will be brief, but I would like to know if I have understood the answer of the Secretary of State correctly. So is there going to be a separate campaign for this supplement, this amendment of the law, which includes very popular products such as shishapens, which we know are also used in primary schools by children? Is an additional campaign specifically targeted on this? I think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u98	We can also include it in the campaigns already planned. We need to complement it with the further measures we are taking. I will look into whether there will be a separate campaign or whether we should include this in the existing successful campaigns. We just need to look at the effectiveness of those campaigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u99	Let us indeed take a very specific look at whether this should not be a supplementary campaign. There's another group, the herbal products. We all think they're incredibly innocent because they have a very friendly image. Is there going to be another campaign for users of these products, not only for young people, but also for users who are 18-plus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u100	That's the same thing. We are now taking a number of further measures. We will have to provide information on this in any case. It seems to me appropriate to look at how this is intertwined with existing campaigns or designed in addition to them. Because we have to tell everyone what we've decided with each other. I come to the specific question about the definition of heatsticks. Mrs Volp pointed out that some products are in between. Heatsticks contain tobacco; therefore they fall within the definition of tobacco products. The use of heatsticks is not about burning, but about heating. That is why it is a smokeless tobacco product, as it is called. Moreover, the same rules apply in order to protect young people, namely the advertising ban and the age limit. Mrs Volp mentioned an important point. She asked whether we would continue to pay sufficient attention to awareness of tobacco products and related products. In addition to all campaigns and information, awareness is incredibly important. At the next stages of the campaign, we will look in particular at the knowledge of the people in our country of the dangers of smoking and smoking. That level of knowledge is actually still very low. We all know it, but information on the precise consequences and their significance can help to further raise awareness. That is why we have taken measures on this issue, such as the terrifying pictures and the social media campaign, which Mrs Volp herself mentioned, with banners and videos with the message "what you see is what you get." Mrs Volp is right: in addition to ordinary information and education in schools, a general awareness of the harmfulness of smoking is essential, so that children themselves start to think more and take more responsibility and so that parents too want and can take more responsibility towards their children. As far as I am concerned, this will and must remain an essential part of the campaigns we are running now and in the future. Mrs Volp asked if there was any up-to-date information on studies on the health effects of e-cigarettes. As she knows, several investigations were carried out, the first in November 2013. An additional risk study was published in March 2015. An investigation into the risks to bystanders was carried out in July 2016. RIVM and NVWA are constantly monitoring the scientific developments and keeping me informed. As soon as there are further insights on the basis of national or international research, I will inform the Court in detail. The measurement methods for tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide values were requested. That method of measurement has been established at European level. The Netherlands cannot deviate from those European agreed standards. As a result of the reports I have drawn attention in Europe to the identification of better validated methods for measuring tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide values, because if a little bit of control can be used, we will not be able to achieve anything. I therefore need and have already raised the other countries in Europe. I very much agree that the measurement methods that we agree on at European level should not lead to the duplication of research results. I have therefore raised this issue at European level. I will inform the Chamber of the progress made on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u101	I am glad to hear that and I think that the pressure on this should be high from the Netherlands. But then we still have the situation in which producers hand-picked the delivery of correct, controlled readings because they cheat with holes. If this is indeed the case, will there really be any consideration at European level as to how manufacturers can be held liable for this? We have a similar problem with cars. We're all in the process of suing the manufacturers for that. If this is also the case with cigarettes, I believe that we should have the same policy with regard to scavenging manufacturers, who are showing the hand with the way in which we can measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u102	Delivering a product with holes in this case is not prohibited in itself, but it also affects the measurement of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide values. That is why we need a method of measurement that excludes this kind of possibility. I very much agree with Mrs Volp. So it's a little different. The scavenger software in cars was aimed at producing other values. Values are produced here, but the product is influenced in such a way that they cannot be measured properly. This means that the measurement methods need to be adapted. This is also being discussed at European level. That is precisely why I have said in Europe that we need to agree on other methods of measurement in order to avoid this kind of possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u103	There's something weird in there for me anyway. So we are going to adapt our measurement methods to the piercing manufacturers, while I want to punish the piercing manufacturers for trying to undermine the measurement methods that we have agreed with each other and try to get out of it. I would therefore like to hear clearly whether or not we can tackle the manufacturers, whether at European level or not, when they are trying to influence the measurements we have agreed with each other. In the end, it's about people's health. Smoking is harmful at all, but if the readings can be tampered with, then we must be able to deal with the manufacturers too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u104	Well, in that case, yes. I am also very willing to discuss this in Europe, if Mrs Volp asks. I'm just pointing out that the case is something else. A product is supplied. Then we measure what, with a bit of a wrong expression, the emission values of that product are. Now a product with holes is delivered and different measurement values come out than with a product without holes. So we're having a discussion about how you actually measure that. This requires measurement methods that ensure that the different product types are not too decisive for the results of the emission values. So it's a bit different, but I share Mrs Volp's feeling. I am also prepared to see if we can take further steps in this regard. Mr Ziegs asked whether it was actually possible to table an amendment to a legislative proposal. Yeah, you can. The Constitution makes it possible for an amendment to be tabled when examining a legislative proposal before the House for decision-making. It is, of course, up to the House of Representatives whether or not to adopt that amendment. I will come to a substantive assessment later. Mr Ziengs asked me if I was prepared to consider whether a differentiation or an exception should be made for specialty shops and some branches. I announced in my letter that there will be an AMvB. I have also indicated that, in this context and also in the context of the legislative proposal, I would like to consider the extent to which differentiation is necessary. I have read the amendment in such a way that it also provides for the possibility of specifying, by way of further regulation, which differentiation and exceptions should be made in respect of products and branches, given the specificity of certain sectors. I am going to look at this possibility in the amendment to make that distinction, which was already included in the legislative proposal. I'll tell him. I will therefore look into whether this differentiation and distinction should be made in relation to the detailed rules that are necessary either on the basis of the amendment or on the basis of the existing legislative proposal. A specific question has been asked about the progress of enforcement with regard to packaging. The NVWA itself is, of course, responsible for the risk assessment of the infringements and must decide for itself what investigation into possible compliance is being carried out. They're risk-oriented inspections. That means that the locations where there's the greatest chance of a violation will get the most attention. I agree with Mr Ziengs that, when it comes to enforcement, priority must be given to what is of course the most important thing: to prevent young people from smoking. You have to make sure there are no violations. I do not have the impression that the NVWA is setting the wrong priorities in this respect. Mr Ziengs gave an example. You're not gonna count packets if you've got a bigger chance at selling to young people under the age of 18. It may be a subject that we can take into account in the letter on enforcement. We'll discuss it in the spring. There hasn't been any internet consultation. At this point, it has been remembered that this is actually about aligning rules on comparable products. That is why it has been said that there was no need for a separate consultation. For the ministerial scheme, however, an Internet consultation will be carried out to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to react to the drafting of the bill, both we and all of us can assess which differentiation and exceptions might need to be made. I thank Mrs Agema for her support for the bill. It has repeatedly pointed out that the rules on herbal products and herbal smoke products should be aligned with those on tobacco products and electronic cigarettes. I thank her for her assessment of this bill. Mrs Keijzer had a question about the figures and the effectiveness of the verification systems. Those rules only apply from 20 May 2016. So I don't have any figures yet. The NVWA also supervises this. She will inform me about this. Of course, that will also apply to the House of Representatives. It asked a specific question on the supervision of cross-border sales. Simply put, the rule is that age should be monitored by the provider at the time of delivery. I have just said that not all EU countries already have rules on the electronic cigarette without nicotine. If these rules do not apply throughout Europe, it is not possible to set the age limit for cross-border sales. The discussions are taking place, but European rules must be awaited. Mrs Keijzer asked: what does it mean that it is'reasonable' to use an age verification system? We already have rules on age verification for tobacco products, and now we are aligning them with rules on other products. For this reason, we believe that it is obvious to use the same age verification. A manufacturer can of course choose to use a different age verification for one product than for the other. That can be done, but there must be a reliable verification and it is reasonable to do the same as the tobacco products currently do. That's the explanation for the sentence. Moreover, I would not like to pass up the opportunity without thanking Mrs Keijzer in detail for the compliments she has given me on this bill. It doesn't happen that often, and that's why I repeat them once more. It's also nice for the Minutes, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u105	Then I always say to my children "Don't push your luck," but that's English and I don't know a Dutch translation of that. But they were serious. If something's right, just say so. This has just been well done by this Secretary of State. Then I always say that again, because at the same time it underpins no matter how serious I am when I think he's doing something wrong. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u106	Now you take a little off the compliment!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u107	That's true again. I'm withdrawing the words. That is not possible, because they have already been spoken, but then you read that again in the Acts. Let me ask you a question. The age verification system and its rules are now regulated by this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u108	There must be an age verification, which is reliable and which also checks whether you are not selling to those under 18 years old. The shape is of course free, but there must be one. That is why we have said that it is reasonable to apply the same rule with regard to the tobacco products we already have for the other products.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u109	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u110	I come to the Volp/Dik-Faber amendment (34470, No. 9). A display ban prevents young people from being exposed to the sight of tobacco products, which makes smoking normal. That is also why the legislative proposal itself already provided the opportunity to create a General Administrative Measure, in which, I repeat, it stated that at least in the case of AMvB, rules should be laid down for the way in which retail outlets present tobacco products. This means that the current legislative proposal also allows for a display ban, or to regulate it or to make exceptions to it, because an AMvB requires the way in which it is presented. The amendment provides for a ban and that it should be further regulated at AMvB. That's a not insignificant slap on the wrist. However, it includes the same possibility that is already contained in the legislative proposal itself. I have no objection to the amendment, and I leave it to the Court to judge, by the fact that we have exchanged views on the need for differentiation and the distinction between different products, given the nature of these products.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u111	I am very pleased with this appreciation. However, I am a little concerned about the nature of the products, but we are still going to talk about this at the AMvB, which hopefully will come our way as soon as possible. Let there be no misunderstanding about the nature of the products, because that is precisely what we are discussing today with this change. As far as we are concerned, this equivalence also applies to the display ban. What we are concerned with is that the ban is now in place and that we really want to look at the exceptions for possible outlets at AMvB. Then it's not about the nature of the product. I would just like to make sure that we have understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u112	Mrs. Volp is right. It is a little too light-footed to talk about the nature of the product. I am looking at the various points of sale, but also, as Mr Ziegs pointed out, whether there should be differentiation in terms of the time limit for introduction. This may have to do with the stage in which the interbranch organisation or the entrepreneurs stand. Mr Ziengs has mentioned examples of this. If we keep some room to work with each other there, I will maintain my judgement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u113	I thank the Secretary of State for this clarification. I believe that the introduction period should indeed be as short as possible, especially where children come into contact. That was also the aim of Mrs Dik-Faber and I, and we must start with that as soon as possible. It is a good thing that we are dealing with this now with this amendment, but that we are actually going to talk about how we are actually going to put it into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u114	I believe I can confirm that. But I was also in the process of uniting Mr Ziegs' comments and Mrs Volp's comments. I might do that a little early, because first the AMvB needs to get there. But I tried to point out that I do want to take into account the comments made by Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u115	When listening to the Secretary of State, I was reminded of the images of the old House of Representatives with the big smoke clouds that always hung there. I note that, fortunately, a lot has changed. Let's move on to the second term. In the second period, speaking time shall be one third of the speaking time used in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u116	Mr President, I had signed up for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u117	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u118	But we're coming a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u119	I'll try to be generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u120	If you're a coulant, I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u121	I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u122	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about smoking and the smoke clouds in the First Chamber. Back then, we had Den Uyl as Prime Minister and then Van Agt. Those were the early years of my political life. But luckily, everything changes. It's definitely changed for the better. But maybe we can take a few punches on it today. At the end of such a cabinet and such a reign, everyone is a bit looser and more ambitious. Maybe there's something we can do. That's why I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that online sales make it easy for young people to purchase tobacco products, e-cigarettes and herbal products intended for smoking;]] [[noting that it has been shown that e-cigarettes with or without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking are harmful to health;]] [[calls on the Government to no longer allow the online sale of tobacco products, e-cigarettes with and without nicotine as well as herbal products intended for smoking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that online sales make it easy for young people to purchase tobacco products, e-cigarettes and herbal products intended for smoking;]] [[noting that cigarettes, e-cigarettes with or without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking are harmful to health;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the prohibition of online sales of tobacco products, cigarettes, e-cigarettes with and without nicotine and herbal products intended for smoking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that taste additives make e-cigarettes and herbal products for smoking more attractive to young people;]] [[noting that all additives which make harmful products attractive to young people are undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit flavour additives in e-cigarettes with and without nicotine as well as herbal products intended for smoking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that valid registration of data by producers and importers is a necessity for the correct identification of health risks of tobacco products, cigarettes and e-cigarettes;]] [[noting that no requirements are currently imposed on the producer or importer's own system;]] [[calls on the Government to establish clear criteria for producer and importer's own registration systems in order to ensure valid registration by the producer or importer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that new types of tobacco products are still on the market despite the harmfulness of tobacco products to public health;]] [[Whereas public health can be better protected if new types of tobacco products are required to be subject to an approval procedure before they enter the market;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for establishing an approval procedure for new types of tobacco products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34470-9]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34470-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34470-11]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34470-12]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34470-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u123	Mr. Chairman. Let me say in my turn that I am very happy that I do not have to go through those old days of smoke in the House of Representatives. It's about small steps, and this is another one. Many have been put by this Secretary of State during this reign. I believe that there is also a considerable delay in maintenance which has been removed. We want more. I am looking forward to the drafting of our amendment. The sooner, the better, as far as I'm concerned. The more we can't seduce a new generation with the packages in sight, the better. I am very pleased with the appreciation of the Secretary of State. I assume he will send a clear AMvB to the Chamber in the shortest possible time. I was intrigued by what Mr Van Gerven said about what is happening in Belgium with the online ban. I have checked online between the companies about what the Belgian cabinet is doing. I ask the Secretary of State if he can inform the Chamber for general consultation about what the Belgian government is doing. Maybe I'll help Mr Van Gerven with that. In that letter, the Secretary of State might indicate whether he sees possibilities for this within the Dutch tobacco legislation. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I think it is good that on 15 February we will continue to discuss the wider tobacco policy in detail, in particular on compliance and enforcement rates in the various sectors. But for tonight, this is another important step that is going to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u124	Mrs. Agema has waived her second term. I call Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u125	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The Secretary of State spoke in reply to Mrs Volp's questions about differentiation in time limits. I would like to clarify this. I can imagine that differentiation may also have to do with the nature of the products. We can quietly say that it is less relevant to subject cigars and pipe tobacco to a display ban. I would therefore like a clarification. I ask once again the question, which has been answered by the Secretary of State, namely whether it is possible. Yes, it can be done, right now by amendment. But would it also be wise and perhaps it would not be better to consider asking the Council of State for its opinion on this amendment in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u126	Mrs Keijzer does not need a second term. The Secretary of State is willing and able to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u127	Mr. Chairman. I, too, had to think about the past. I saw a look back on Sport on television a while back, in which Koos Postema presented a sports program and with a cigarette in his hand gave the result Ajax-Elinkwijk. You know that Frits van Turenhout used to say: that's 0-0. That might have been a symbol of the two smoke clouds hanging over the studio when it was about sports. It's a good thing we lost this time. I will respond briefly to the motions. The motion in part No. 9 concerns internet sales. That ban on Internet sales is indeed a choice you can make with each other, but I would point out that it will be quite difficult to enforce. To regulate it, to ensure that there is an age verification and not to sell under 18 seems to me to be better, regardless of the fact that international harmonisation would then have to take place in relation to age limits for electronic cigarettes without nicotine. So I'm deceiving the motion. With reference to Mrs Volp's question, it might be good to look at what the Belgian proposal is doing, so that we know more precisely what is happening there and can make an assessment of its effects. Perhaps I can make a small move towards Mr Van Gerven on this point, namely that I will take what we can learn from the Belgian proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u128	Is the Secretary of State willing to make my second motion, the motion in part no. 10, provide a positive opinion? Then I could hold my first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u129	This negotiation seems a little far-reaching. That means I'm not gonna ban it, I'm gonna investigate the prohibition. That's just a little bit different. I think it's very creative. I say to Mr Van Gerven that I will look into the Belgian proposals and what they might mean for our situation and that I will inform the Chamber about them during the AO. That's my maximum bid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u130	The Secretary of State wants to look at what is happening in Belgium. Let me just sum it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u131	And learn from it and see what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u132	And all sorts of things. That means he's keeping the possibility open to do that, right? If you do an investigation, it can go either way. It can turn out positive and negative. The second motion actually calls for a broader investigation. Mrs Volp's question fits in, but it is a little broader. I'd still like to ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to do that. Then I can indeed take my first motion, because it would be premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u133	I do this kind of thing with an open mind. We've talked about smoking policy before. We have taken a number of measures and we will have to constantly check whether they are sufficient or whether more measures need to be taken and what we can learn from abroad. Belgium has now expressed its intention. The question is whether that would be what. I'm willing to investigate that and see what it means. What does Belgium intend to do with it, what are the intended effects and can it help us in the Netherlands? That's what I do with an open mind. I really want to give that to Mr Van Gerven. I'm not gonna do any research that we know isn't gonna work out in advance. However, I am not going to say in advance that we are going to do it. That is the open mind I am asking of Mr Van Gerven. That is why I advise against both motions, but with the promise that I will look into what is happening in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u134	Then I'll hold both motions. I assume, however, that we will be informed as much as possible before 15 February, and heard today's debate, so that we can take that into account in the debate we have then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u135	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u136	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motions (34470, Nos. 10 and 9). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u137	I would like to clarify what the Secretary of State has promised here in relation to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes. Those are still legal products. That's what I'm worried about when these kinds of motions are filed. I would ask the Secretary of State to enter into the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u138	Mrs. Agema is right about that. That's why I didn't recommend the two motions. After all, we should not look at the form, but at the purpose for which we are taking action. However, I am prepared to see what other countries are doing and what we can learn from it. The reason I betrayed them is precisely why Mrs Agema calls it. The motion in part No. 11 is about the flavors. The European directive allows flavors in e-cigarettes. If we wanted to do something with that, I think it is important to discuss it in Europe. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 12 deals with the requirements that should be imposed on registration systems. I believe that at the moment there is not one suitable registration system that should apply to everyone. There are several systems suitable. The responsibility for a safe and reliable system must really be placed on those who have to do so and pay it. The supervisory authorities should be able to request it and check whether it is reliable, even if there are signals for it. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u139	The problem is that these clear criteria are obviously not there and that we do not really have good standards on the basis of which we can monitor or control. If that is the case, you can say: that is the responsibility of the producer, the importer or anyone else. But if that doesn't happen then the government will have to take an extra step, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u140	At least in the sphere of supervision. I believe that there are several reliable and safe systems and that it is up to the entrepreneurs to choose which system they use, provided they meet the requirements imposed by laws and regulations. They also offer the supervisor the opportunity to check whether there is any fuss about it or not. In that sense, I think we should make functional demands. There's got to be a system. We need to register. It has to be safe and reliable, so you can distract from it. The supervisor should have access to it. That seems to me to be sufficient safeguards other than requiring the government to prescribe which system everyone should use, without knowing with each other what is the best system. So I think it's really good that the government sets the rules, but it's not responsible for the systems. They must be safe and reliable, but there are several possibilities for that. I think it would be wise to maintain that. So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u141	But what if those systems aren't there? The government can say: there must be a good system, period. Then a producer can say: okay, I make system A, B or C. But if none of the current systems is actually valid, then surely it is important that you arrive at clear criteria or a valid system? The producers or others will then have to comply with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u142	No, I indicated that there is not one system that is suitable for everyone or in any situation. This means that manufacturers and producers must establish a reliable and safe system for their products. That is a responsibility that we must lay down in the laws and regulations. The entrepreneur must respect this and be transparent so that it can be monitored. I wouldn't want to get into the situation where we're going to think about the system that applies to everyone and find out later that it doesn't work at all. The responsibility of the producer and the entrepreneur is therefore to have a safe and reliable system. That is what we lay down in laws and regulations, and it is monitored. I would not want to impose a system on the public authorities, especially since we do not know whether it would be appropriate for everyone. On the motion in part No. We have already spoken for a while in the debate. I think it is really undesirable to set up a public approval procedure for harmful products. It is also a question of whether this will lead to legal problems if you want a ban. I don't think that's desirable. I think it is right that products should be notified so that supervisors can control them and research institutes can do research, but they should not be co-responsible for a harmful product in some kind of approval procedure. We have also discussed this in detail in the implementation of the European directive. At that time, we deliberately opted for this system: not a mandatory procedure but a notification, so that there is the possibility of monitoring and investigation. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u143	This is a really weird guy. I can still follow the Secretary of State when it comes to general products or goods. This is a very special product with extremely damaging aspects for our public health. It is not for nothing that lung doctor Mrs De Kanter has indicated that it is a strange thing that there is no approval procedure for new tobacco products. That is what we are talking about, for example, in the heatstick. If you put a product on the market that you know will lead to thousands of deaths per year in the long term, then it's weird that the government doesn't say "before we allow it, we'll see if that can be approved"? It's not too much of a question for the government to go down that path, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u144	As a government, I do not think it is appropriate to be responsible for the approval of a product which may be harmful or which is later examined as harmful and to which you subsequently want to take measures that go far beyond the approval of a product. Of course, everyone can make products and they have to comply with the product safety requirements in the laws and regulations. It must be possible, on the basis of an investigation into harmfulness, to take further measures or perhaps even to ban it, should we believe that the harmfulness is such that we will not allow the product on the market. That is different from an approval procedure, in which you say when you introduce a product: I approve of you putting it on the Dutch market. Later you can get into trouble because it turns out to be much more harmful than thought. I really don't think this is good. That is why I maintain my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u145	Here's what's important. The manufacturer says about that heatstick: you get 90%................................................................................................... That is a claim in respect of a harmful product that we then allow to enter the market that has not been proven, not proven. That claim will be made. If we have been fighting for decades against tobacco addiction in the Netherlands, it is strange that it only needs to be reported and that it can be put on the market. If we had had the chance to go 400 years ago, when did that smoking start? To ban that product and hardly anyone would smoke, no one would think of allowing or registering that product, because of its harmfulness. We don't have that situation. We're in the situation we're in, with millions of smokers. If we have the chance to combat new harmful products as much as possible and at least strictly approve them before they come on the market...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u146	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u147	... should we be as strict as possible and prevent it if possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u148	I think Mr Van Gerven is saying something else. He's talking about an approval procedure, but I think he's talking about a prohibition procedure. Otherwise there will be products on the market that are to some extent harmful and the government must say: on the basis of any reasoning we allow this product and we do not approve that product. Unless Mr Van Gerven says: I really want new tobacco products to be banned at all times. This is a different kind of position than an approval procedure which the government should then follow. I really do not think it is desirable to be responsible as a government. I want to continue to be able to judge independently. If there is a product on the market that is researched to show that it is harmful, we must be able to take proportionate measures, including to protect our young people. If products are not harmful, but we still think they are not good, for example because they are promoting smoking, there is a lot of discussion about what is and is not harmful, and yet there is reason for me to take a number of measures. That's what we're doing today. I do not want to be responsible for approving the electronic cigarette. I do want to be responsible for ensuring that young people do not smoke and that we keep an eye on the harmfulness of products to health. That seems to me to be a good responsibility that the government must take. I do not want to be responsible for introducing, for example, the electronic cigarette. I therefore maintain my judgment. There was a specific question from Mr Ziengs. He asked whether the amendment should not go to the Council of State after all. The situation is, of course, different in that we have discussed earlier in this Chamber the possibility of a display ban and that a motion has also been adopted. On the basis of that earlier ruling of the Chamber to come to a voluntary display, I think it is proportional to say that there is no need to make any extra progress to the Council of State, but that is obviously up to the Chamber. In fact, we are now making regulation or a further elaboration of the existing regulation. I therefore advise against a motion on that point, although I am not really sure whether the Chamber has tabled a motion on that point. I understand that it is not. I cannot therefore advise against this, but I have made an argument against it. In order to confirm the search that I have promised Mr Ziengs and Mrs Volp, I would say that differentiation will take place at the time of the elaboration. It is considered whether differentiation should take place in time for any reason or differentiation by sector and by industry. Mr Ziegs asked whether the nature of the product could play a role in that assessment. I do not think we can yet say exactly whether it will be the nature of the product or anything else. It is clear that there must be possibilities for differentiation, that I want to see which one could be as soon as possible and that I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. We can then look at the substance of the matter as to whether it meets the demands made by Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-16.u149	The vote on the bill, the amendment and the motions for resolutions will take place on Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence. The same applies to all participants and all those who have followed this debate physically or digitally. I hope you all have a good and safe journey home.
