ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Renewable Energy Storage Act in connection with the setting of tariffs for 2018. This is known to us under Room 34762.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	Welcome to the Minister and to the members of our Chamber. First, I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP. She has registered for 15 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may also speak on behalf of Frank Wassenberg of the Party for Animals, so I will try to mix a Gronings and a Limburg accent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	Colorful!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	Yeah, colorful. Mr. Chairman. If it becomes clear on one point how unfair the desires and burdens of climate policy have been distributed, then it is in the storage of renewable energy. In the coming years, the amount that households pay is going to fall over many times. Next year alone, the rate will rise by almost 50%. But this storage, also called ODE, is not on its own, because the energy load itself is also rising enormously. Within three years, a family will pay over €500 in energy taxes. All these measures put together by this Shell cabinet create a huge increase in the energy bill. Already there are families for whom it just gets too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	There's a question for you right away, from Mrs. Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	I was curious to see what concrete evidence the SP Group has for claiming that this would be a Shell cabinet. She claims that, and whoever claims that has evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	Of course, we are referring here, for example, to the dividend tax. That's a tax gift, lobbied together by Shell. That seems to me to be an important point. We also see this in the context of climate policy's lusts and burdens. I shall return to that in the rest of my speech. I can elaborate on it longer now, too. We see that the lusts are mainly for Shell and its consorts and that the burden is for households. Households are seeing a huge increase in the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	In fact, Mrs Beckerman of the SP also points out that it is a bit short-sighted and that it needs further clarification. Whoever claims to have evidence has evidence. I don't know if I'm gonna let you convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	We'll see! "The poorest Dutch are responsible for climate policy" headlined the NOS in April. This cabinet makes it much worse by significantly increasing the household energy bill. On 17 November, the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, published a report stating that 55% of the total use of energy is not taxed. This applies in particular to the use of fossil energy sources as raw materials. I say in the direction of Mrs Mulder: Shell is, of course, part of this. The Planning Office for the Environment draws hard conclusions. Taxing end-users and consumers is less effective. The potential of tax instruments to reduce environmental damage is particularly strong in the production phase. I quote the PBL: 'It also appears that the environmental damage at this stage is mainly related to the use of fossil energy, not only for combustion but also for use as raw materials'. These are harsh conclusions from the Plan Bureau for the Environment: taxing end-users, i.e. households, is not effective. We're chasing the wrong people on expense. This is not effective for the energy transition and also reduces the support for that transition. Can the Minister recognize himself in the report of the PBL? Moreover, in fogs the energy bill remains exactly what it will look like in the coming years. There is no clarity about realistic figures. Each week new amounts seem to show up, one even higher than the other. When journalists ask the Ministry what all this is going to mean for different types of households, there is no answer. I would now like to ask the Minister directly: what are families who cannot afford solar panels and expensive insulation measures going to pay for their energy bills, not only next year but also in five years' time? Let there be no misunderstanding! Of course, the SP also wants to speed up the transition to green energy. It is clear that we need to speed things up, but this is not the way to a sustainable society. There is no question of the polluter paying. In fact, in addition to all kinds of exemptions, the most polluting companies also have a tariff for electricity that is almost 100 times lower than the rate for families. Again, the biggest extortionists have a rate that is 100 times lower than the rate for families. And it is precisely those companies that are responsible for most CO emissions. Why are these companies not being encouraged to produce more energy efficient? No, the more they consume, the cheaper it gets. According to the SP, this is the world upside down. To support the energy transition, it is essential that the lusts and burdens are fairly distributed. But this cabinet proposal is really bad for support. The burden is far too great for households who have little desire for it. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises pay the bill to the cabinet. The SP does not want an elite but an honest energy transition. What will the ODE do in the coming years? The government agreement assumes a structural yield in 2033 which is 300 times higher than the yield in 2020. Is this true? What does it mean when this is passed on to families? What rate increase is still considered acceptable by this Minister? Is this increase being considered in conjunction with the other measures that affect the energy bill? Is it true that there is a strange contradiction in the link with the SDE+ funds? When energy consumption decreases, this means less revenue for the SDE+ scheme, leading to an increase in the ODE tariff. So the better it is to reduce energy consumption, the more people have to pay. Can the Minister take this care away? Can he say if this is true? The proceeds of the ODE, as mentioned above, go to the SDE+ scheme, a scheme that this new cabinet wants to extend to capture and storage of CO, also known as CCS. Windmill parks and large-scale solar projects, i.e. real renewable energy, then have to compete with the burying of CO underground. Mr. Chairman. Is investing in CCS a subsidy for industry and is it really appropriate to meet the European CO targets? Is this in line with the European Commission? Don't tackle it, but putting it under the ground can't be the sustainability policy of the greenest cabinet ever? The scheme is not called Stimulation Sustainable Energy Production for nothing, and not now I have to quote Frank Wassenberg, because he wrote this piece of the SWC+ scheme: Stimulation Getting rid of CO2. The ODE was intended to pay for the energy transition at the time of its introduction. Now the storage is going to be financing the disposal of pollution by large companies, brought up by families. This leaves less money for real promotion of renewable energy. It is precisely in wind and solar energy that we have recently seen a lot more jobs needed for technically skilled men and women and boys and girls. We want more green work, especially now that jobs in the old fossil sector, such as Siemens and the coal spillover, are at risk. Can the Minister give an estimate of how many jobs will be created if we commit ourselves to CCS and how much if we are fully committed to renewable energy? Mr. Chairman. We do not want an explosive increase in the energy bill for households. No extra charges, but extra requirements. Many households currently have no choice. They can't bring down their energy bill. Residents of social housing, for example, cannot choose to generate renewable energy themselves. They're stuck and paying the bill. In addition, it appears that the SDE+ facility has less left to pay for the energy generation of these homes. Is this true? Many houseowners with low or average income will have less money due to the huge increase in the energy bill. So less money to make it more sustainable. That's ineffective as far as we're concerned. How does the Minister respond to this? Small and medium-sized enterprises are also faced by this minister with significantly higher costs. I'm rounding up. It is time to make the ambitions of this new cabinet concrete. We are making a proposal. Make the ODE, the Storage of Renewable Energy Act, another scheme as it was intended: an incentive to make the energy transition more sustainable and aimed at paying for it. Companies that pollute the most are going to contribute most to the climate objectives. We will table an amendment to this effect, which corrects the unfair distribution between households and businesses. We will also make a proposal to ensure that the proceeds actually benefit from the sustainability and reduction of CO emissions. No underground CO paid by households, but really investing in renewable energy. I believe I have convinced Mrs Mulder that it is a Shell cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	An interesting argument from the SP. I hear Mrs Beckerman complaining about the energy bill, which is constantly rising for so many households, including the ODE. This Sustainable Energy Storage Act is from 2012. I took the vote here in the Chamber again. Then it turns out that the SP simply voted for it. I even went over the explanatory statement from that time. Then it was also just predicted that the ODE would rise enormously. So the SP just agreed to this. My question to Mrs Beckerman is then: is she talking for the stage now, or is she really standing up for the households that are faced with high bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yeah, good question. What we have done several times in the past and will do again this evening, I have just announced, is to propose a fairer distribution between companies and households. I think that's where the crux is. We want Shell to become more sustainable. We want the large consumers to be more sustainable. So we want a law as it was meant to be. That's exactly what I just said. So we really want this law to make sure that the biggest polluters are less polluting and that households are less paying the bill. We have made these proposals on several occasions, unfortunately not supported by a majority. This evening, of course, I hope for a majority in favour of the amendment that you have seen before. Because with this, we are creating a lower energy bill for households and ensuring that the polluters pay for the damage they cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	I have indeed seen that amendment pass. I think Mrs Beckerman is proposing an 80%-20% ratio. At present, this ratio is 50-50: 50% for households and 50% for businesses. Mrs Beckerman is now making this a problem, but the 2012 explanatory memorandum to the bill that the SP voted for contains 50%-50%. Where was the SP then? At that time, the SP did not object, in fact, to it. Then again my question is: is this chat here for the stage, or is the SP really worried?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	You repeat your question. At that time, proposals were also made, not only in the course of the law but also afterwards, to make that relationship fairer. We think that makes sense. We think it is logical that the polluters should be responsible for the costs. You don't think so. You seem to be voting against such a law, but we do believe that we should tackle pollution in the Netherlands. There are a lot of people who suffer from that. However, we believe that this relationship should be more honest. It is perhaps interesting to explain that we looked at the actual pollution before 80/20. Companies pollute for 80% and households for 20%. In our proposal, you're going to pay more if you pollute a lot and we're going to spare households and small and medium-sized enterprises a lot, because they get a lower bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	I suggest we do interruptions in two, Mr. Kops. Mrs. Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mrs Beckerman's proposal may put pressure on our international competitiveness. Let's say that it leaves companies, companies where maybe a lot of SP people work now, how is she going to explain that to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	I am confident that these big companies can also make them more sustainable. What we see now is that there is no incentive. I was just reading from the Plan Bureau's report on the Environment, which states that we will both reduce emissions and make companies more sustainable if we build in that 55% incentive. We are thus creating a greener tax system in which the polluters really pay. And 55% is really a huge amount, because 55% of the energy is not taxed now. The Planning Bureau foresees that this will have very positive consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	But Mrs Beckerman simply doesn't answer my question. I asked her: if that goes slightly differently and those companies leave the Netherlands, what will she say to the employees of these companies? And of course we can, because we have no theoretical reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	Your case is therefore that you do not believe in the report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment, in which the Planning Bureau for the Environment quite rightly states that this system of unfair taxes does not encourage companies to produce sustainably. And that is something you want as well, since you are also in favour of the price agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	We'll do it through me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. These companies have no incentive at the moment and households pay the bill. Besides, if these households are impoverished and spending less money, they can't buy from those companies either. So we see a win-win situation if we follow the proposals of the Planning Office for the Environment. It would lead to a better sustainable Netherlands where we would actually allow the polluter to pay. I assume that is a statement that you also endorse. The polluter must pay! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	We're gonna do interrupts in two and we're gonna say "you" through me. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV. Mr Kops, you signed up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The energy bill is going to go up hugely in the near future and the citizens are screwed. That much was already clear. Last week during the treatment of the Tax Plan, the energy tax has already been discussed. Much has been said about it and perhaps even more important: a great deal has not been said about it. It was rather shady about it. If things are shady, Mr. Chairman, then you have to worry, because that usually means you're just being screwed. First, it was said that the energy tax would increase by 35%. At that time it soon became clear that this was too optimistic, because the energy tax turned out to be 38% higher. It is a scandalous increase, and above all it is a scandalous set of figures. Just so we're clear, we're talking about the energy tax here. Only the energy tax, because there are, of course, many more costs, rising costs that citizens will have to bear in mind in the near future. Almost half of the energy bill, like the people at home who pay, is made up of taxes. Half! And those taxes are gonna go up in the future. That is scandalous, because one million households already live in energy poverty. That means a million households already have trouble paying that bill. Of course, that's a lot. In addition to energy taxes and VAT, a household also pays ODE, or "storage renewable energy," more precisely a kind of windmill tax. The proceeds from this ODE are used for the promotion and production of renewable energy. Unprofitable renewable energy, because that is why it needs to be subsidised. After all, something which is not profitable is subsidised. In this case, "subsidising" is another word for: "citizens are squeezed out" or "citizens are allowed to pay for the expensive hobbies of the left elite." Mr President, today we are discussing the amendment of the Renewable Energy Storage Act with the aim of setting the rates for 2018. Let me be clear right away: as far as PVV is concerned, these rates just go to zero. Completely abolish that trade! But if it's up to this disaster cabinet, next year the citizens are going to pay much more to ODE, even more than the cabinet wants us to believe. According to the cabinet, an average household next year will pay about €92 in storage renewable energy. Mind you, Mr President, that is already a doubling compared to 2017. That is not all, because, as so often, reality is more expensive than the delusions of this cabinet. The cabinet assumes an average energy consumption of a household as stated in the National Energy Exploratory. All right, Mr. Chairman, let's get that report and see what's in it. What does that prove to be? The cabinet has simply extracted the most favourable figures, so that consumption seems to be lower than it really is. The average usage with which the cabinet calculates is based on households with solar panels. The expected energy savings resulting from these panels have already been taken into account. What kind of deception is that? After all, the majority of households have no solar panels on the roof at all. The question to the Minister is therefore: how many households are the government figures not applicable? I'd like a response. The conclusion is that Henk and Ingrid are actually going to use much more energy. A simple check at multiple energy comparison sites and a few simple calculations teach us that the average household will pay more than €100 to ODE next year. This means that the energy bill is even higher than the government wants us to believe. That's just deception. The citizens will be hit hard. It is therefore striking that the explanatory memorandum to this bill simply recognises that the purchasing power of households with lower incomes has not been taken into account when setting the ODE rates. It's just in there, shameless. Let that be precisely the households that cannot afford the energy bill at all. Let that be precisely the households who cannot take energy-saving measures, such as solar panels, either because they cannot afford them themselves or because they are handed over to a landlord as a tenant. The tenants are doubly screwed, Mr. Chairman. In recent years, Rutte and his consorts have left the tenants hugely in the lurch and this cabinet continues to do so. Moreover, this is not the end of the matter. The windmill tax, which is ODE, will continue to rise to more than €200 in 2023, which is then a quadrupling compared to today's forecast in the most favourable case. During last week's discussion of the Tax Plan, the Secretary of State for Finance said that increasing energy costs have not yet been taken into account as a result of the Paris agreements. I quote: 'In total, as a result of the Paris agreements in 2020, EUR 103 million and an additional EUR 368 million in 2021 are to be raised with the storage of renewable energy.' So with the ODE. Firstly, where do these millions come from and what are they intended for? Secondly, the question is: have these billions already been included in the ODE tariffs? The more than €100 that households are going to pay next year, are those millions already in there? Admittedly, Mr President, it is a rhetorical question, because the answer is no. That is what the Secretary of State for Finance himself said. He has indicated that it is not yet known how these millions will drop in the rates of the ODE. And that is, of course, bizarre, because we are now setting these rates here. So the question is to the Minister how that rate is set for next year. Surely there must be a certain purpose, a certain price development? You want to go somewhere in the years after that, don't you? It's about so much money, unimaginable. Then it is incomprehensible that there is so much uncertainty, so much shadowiness. It is clear that the citizens are simply screwed, because they will eventually have to pay. Everyone, including people with a minimum wage, also people with an AOW, also people who can't afford it at all. It's just folklore, it's theft. Many households already have trouble getting by monthly. Difficult to pay the rent, trouble to pay the care, trouble to pay the groceries: a lot of people just can't afford it anymore. The question to the Minister is whether he can imagine that at all. Does he have any idea what it does to people when they just don't come out month after month? Apparently not, otherwise he wouldn't have come to the Chamber to defend this idiotic cabinet policy. This cabinet lives in a completely different world. Does the Minister have any idea of the consequences of the rising energy bill? How many people get late payments, as far as they don't already have them? How many people end up in debt because of this, again: as far as they don't already have it? Does the minister have a visual on this? And how far does he want the bill to go? Does he have a certain limit in mind? Is that line that people at home are literally sitting in the cold and in the dark? The conclusion is: the bill is going up hugely. How tax rates have been established remains blurry, yet this law must be pushed through, and quickly, at the last minute. Because, chairman, salient detail: this law is referendable. This means that according to Article 8 of the Advisory referendum Act these ODE rates can only enter into force eight weeks after publication in the Official Journal. But of course, this cabinet cannot wait that long. The cabinet wants the tariffs to start on 1 January, so Article 8 is simply put aside. Look, Chairman, that's the way it is here. It seems that people are eager to squeeze the citizens. One can't wait. That is why my final question to the Minister is: what does that actually feel like? Are you really satisfied with your ministry in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	After this speech, I have a question for the honourable Member. It's also a bit about worldviews. With him I too am concerned about the fair sharing of burdens and desires as regards the cost of the energy transition. He's really worried about rising costs. This week, a study was published by the Citibank, one of the largest banks in the world and not exactly the GroenLinks scientific agency. It's calculated that if we don't do something, we're gonna waste $18,000 billion worldwide and we're gonna need to pay for all that damage. Do you recognise that this is really an issue that needs to be resolved and that, in the long term, it is also important for citizens to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	GroenLinks talks about issues and issues here. There is no doubt that we must do something. And we can all do that here, by voting against this law and, therefore, by making sure that the energy bill does not go any further. That is concrete action, and that is what the PVV wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	My question was whether you also want to do something about climate change itself, which is going to cost a lot if we do nothing. Give me a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	That answer is no. I didn't think that could be clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA. She's on the list for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr President, thank you. This is the first debate with this new minister. I look forward to the many debates we will undoubtedly have on this important subject. However, the CDA does not want the cost of energy policy to be disproportionate for households who cannot invest in energy saving by possibly isolating, purchasing a heat pump or installing solar panels. That is why the CDA is calling for this to be taken into account today. In recent weeks, the Telegraaf and also the Eigen Huis Association have questioned the calculation of the increase in costs for households. This discussion is essentially about the question of what average use should be used and the sum of measures. In my group's view, we should look at the effect of the higher energy tax on people with small wallets, because for them, of course, it is a relatively larger proportion of their annual expenditure. Especially those who often don't have their own roof or who lack the savings to invest in sustainable things like solar panels pay for the storage of renewable energy, here abbreviated as ODE. How do we make housing corporations more sustainable, so that the tenants can reduce the housing costs further? How does the Minister and his colleague intend to make private rental more sustainable? Then there's the people who live in a place of sale. How does the Minister intend to make it attractive to households who do not have savings to make these investments anyway, because they will lead to lower costs? In the coalition agreement it was agreed to modernise the netting arrangement. The CDA notes that at present people with solar panels do not contribute to large-scale renewable energy generation, although they would generally like to do so. But, yes, they are currently excluded. Will the Minister come forward with his plan to modernise the netting scheme before the summer of 2018, also in order to reduce market uncertainty so that the number of private solar panels continues to increase? Because we all have an interest in that. Is the Minister also prepared to see how he can further seduce SMEs to move towards renewable energy? Would he like to explore, together with SMEs, what the possibilities might be? Then I have one more question about the starting note. The start note states on page 31 that the resources in the renewable energy budget reserve will be added to the available resources for SDE+ for the period after 2022 upon conclusion of the climate and energy agreement. Our question to the Minister is whether he has considered using these funds already, so that perhaps that increase could have been less. Those are our questions to the cabinet right now. I have noticed that there has been a lot of unrest over the last few weeks, and I think it is up to this Minister to clarify here today what it is and what it is not, so that he removes that ambiguity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u30	I would like to put a question to Mrs Mulder. In the not so long time I have had the pleasure of being a Member of Parliament, I have often heard her speak with great compassion and warmth about the need for support in the energy transition. Constantly in the second sentence or perhaps already in the first sentence, she used that word. Can I then ask her how she now appreciates the agreements in the government agreement, in which citizens make a major contribution to the sustainability of energy through that storage and in which they choose to add quite different goals to them? Do you think that will strengthen or undermine the basis of support, Mrs Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u31	Well, I think our voters, like the voters of GroenLinks, want us to eventually pass on an earth to future generations. And it takes a lot of measures to get out of there, too. CCS is one of them. We have also said that it is important to involve this society. So we have presented a palette of measures where this is one of them. There are also many other measures. Then it is also up to society to indicate in this new climate and energy agreement what even better plans it may have in store. So we are always open to good suggestions. My group chairman, Mr Sybrand Buma, has said this before in this Chamber, and that will not be new to Mr Van der Lee either. At the same time, we also wanted to point out by means of a roadmap that we are serious and that we really want to achieve those goals in Paris. Yes, I would expect that to appeal to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u32	Of course, achieving those goals is very appealing to us. But we also believe that it should be done in a fair manner. As soon as you give the revenue from a tax another purpose, namely subsidising fossil industry to continue using fossil fuel, it seems reasonable to change something in the ratio of who pays the tax. Can Mrs Mulder at least acknowledge that that would make sense? Because citizens thought they could contribute to renewable energy, but they are now going to make it possible to use fossil energy for longer. Isn't it more logical, then, that the companies that have to contribute should contribute more, and the citizens less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u33	That's why I interrupted the colleague of the SP. Because it also got over it quite easily and pretended that we might live on some kind of island, and that there would be no international competition. So there is competition. And if we don't watch out, we're gonna lose jobs. I'd hate to see that, because I'm giving everyone a good job. That is why I stand up for those interests of our employees. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also had proposals on storage. And we all know we need everything. It's about "and, and, and, and." That is why I find it somewhat regrettable that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is now pretending that this is not the case. Anyway, I'm sure I'll hear it from Mr Van der Lee in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u34	I listened carefully to Mrs Mulder's speech. To be honest, I had to get over it for a while, because I thought it was kind of flat. Actually, she didn't say that much at all. For example, when she was talking about corporate housing, she said: yes, the burden should be reduced and we need to make it more sustainable. All right, let's hold that "load down" for a second. At the end of her speech she said: yes, but we must also achieve the goals of Paris. Yeah, there's quite a price on that. So how do "low burdens" and "achieving the goals of Paris" fit together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u35	I think we have also seen in recent years that with a number of regulations you could, for example, isolate your home. If you do that in a good way and you encourage it in a positive way, then you can actually bring those burdens down. For example, the coalition agreement states that we are going to look at buildings and tied funding. But people who rent a property generally do not have very much of their own influence. So they do need that housing corporation to do that. If the effect of the investments made by the housing corporation is ultimately to reduce the burden in the longer term, then I think we are all on the right track and there is less CO emissions. And less CO emissions are of great importance to all our citizens. But you're doing all this for the longer term, because you can't make those investments back in one or two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u36	That's interesting, because of course it doesn't add up. Let's indeed focus on those corporate homes. Of course, the burden on the people who live there must be reduced. Of course, we have to rent down, and the energy bill has to go down. I understand that Mrs Mulder is also in favour of this. We can then of course isolate those homes and we can place energy-efficient boilers there. Those are all good ideas. But if, on the other hand, taxes on energy go up so much, what's the point? It's hard to isolate against that. That's point one. And the second point: how is Mrs Mulder of the CDA going to prevent the cost of these measures from being passed on to the rent if they are actually going to implement energy-efficient measures? In other words, all of Mrs Mulder's fine words, but how is this going to actually reduce the burden on tenants in the corporation sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u37	Of course, we have a lot of different taxes in our country. I understand that the PVV spokesperson also took part in the tax debate. Then he also knows that there are income taxes. In the end, the purchasing power cards must look good, because that is the final picture we must have and that we should lay down. And yet I think that we have a responsibility together to invest in these rental homes, because those people often cannot do so themselves. Also the people who, for example, have their own home but do not have their own savings account and which you also want them to be able to make that battle, you could offer building-related funding. I just didn't get a third interruption either, Mr. Kops. The chairman is very strict tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u38	It is not an answer to the question, of course. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u39	It is absolutely an answer to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u40	You're part of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u41	...but you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u42	You must have an idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u43	I'm sorry, Mr. PVV doesn't agree. Of course you can. It's called democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u44	I shall come back to the point made by Mrs Mulder just now. She is concerned about the competitiveness of Dutch industry. She has said this several times in the debate. It seems to see this as a justification to spare polluting industry, which uses a lot of fossil energy, and to tax citizens more heavily. Is Mrs Mulder aware that the Netherlands is at the top or almost top of all rankings in terms of competitiveness? And does Mrs Mulder think that there is still reason to spare the fossil polluting industry for a longer period of time, whereas an important part of that industry has already received 1.4 billion in the form of the removal of dividend taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u45	I am thinking, for example, of Tata Steel, where a lot of people work. You could say that's a polluting industry. But if you look at that compared to the competitors in the same industry worldwide, then in recent years, Tata Steel has made huge blows, for example in reducing CO. It's one of the best companies in the world. So it's relative. That is, of course, also the competitive position. I understand the PvdA would love to chase Tata Steel out of the country. That's not what the CDA wants, because it all costs jobs. Then I am a little surprised at what Mr Moorlag has said here on the interrupting microphone, because I almost get the impression that he doesn't care about these jobs. That's what gets me. I didn't expect that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mrs Mulder does not answer the question and puts a point of view in my mouth that the PvdA Group does not have. If I am referring to polluting industry, for example, I am also looking at the refinery complex in the Rijnmond, where Shell has its refineries. It is already well anticipated with the reduction of the dividend tax by 1.4 billion. The polluter pays principle is, in this way, subjected to very serious violence. Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u47	I think you can challenge any industry to do it even better than it does today. We all need this towards 2050 in order to achieve the goals of Paris. I find it very easy to just say "close the door" to a company instead of seeing how to get out together with companies in a covenant. I am surprised at this attitude of the PvdA Group in this debate. I just really didn't expect this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66. He signed up for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you, Mr President. This is my first debate as a new spokesman for the D66 group on climate and energy. I was allowed to take over that stick from Stientje van Veldhoven; she did something else. It's up to me the challenge of filling her shoes. I look forward to having some nice debates with the Chamber in the coming years on climate and energy. Fortunately, almost everyone in this room recognises that we face a huge challenge, for a huge greening challenge. We will occasionally have sharp debates with each other, but I hope that we will also be able to find each other to live up to those wonderful ambitions of the greenest coalition agreement ever. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, as every year, renewable energy storage tariffs are set, this time for 2018. These rates finance the now widely discussed scheme Stimulation of Sustainable Energy Production. This is an important regulation, because unfortunately the cost of renewable energy is still much higher than conventional energy. To achieve a real price ratio between clean and fossil, the cabinet will introduce a fairer CO2 price for the energy sector. This makes the price fairer. Fossil will be more expensive in the coming years and clean will become more competitive. But we didn't arrange it overnight. We must continue to stimulate. The timely setting of the new rates is important because we have already entered into SDE+ commitments for 2018 and beyond. Those obligations also require funding. That is why D66 values that we are here today, so that we can finish it neatly before 1 January 2018. Our country spent a long time at the bottom of the European lists when it comes to the share of renewable energy. Only Malta and Luxembourg did worse. Fortunately, we are now making quick steps, for example with the cost of wind energy. It has fallen sharply in recent years. But we're far from there. In recent years, the energy agreement has taken the first step towards turning the tide: from Europe's lagoon to its frontrunner. The Energy Agreement sets the target for renewable energy at 16% by 2023. As far as D66 is concerned, these objectives stand as a house. For us, it is still a minimum objective. Unfortunately, we have also seen that the achievement of the objectives of the energy agreement is not flawless. To those partners who do not achieve the reductions they have promised in the energy agreement, I would say that agreement is an agreement. As a reliable government, we must ensure that the resources needed to achieve the objectives are and remain available. That is the purpose of this bill. The setting of the new rates had become almost routine in recent years. This is also evident from the written preparation for tonight's debate. Only the SP and the CDA had questions about the new rates. D66 also initially only saw support for the proposal that is now before us: recognizable elements that we have also seen in recent years, such as the regressive tariff system, the fifty-fifty distribution between households and companies and a system of distribution between gas and electricity that is in line with the 2016 Tax Plan. But now we have a new minister, there is a new government agreement and there have also been some exciting debates in this Chamber, including on the tax plan for the coming year. Our group, like the other groups that have spoken, has asked the Minister about the division between businesses and citizens and the rising costs for households in the coming years. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he will monitor the burden-sharing over the next few years and when he will intervene if the distribution becomes distorted. I agree with Mrs Mulder on the question of how we can support homeowners, corporations and tenants in order to make their own homes more sustainable and how, in the light of this, we should deal with the netting arrangements in the future. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other questions. It was chosen that the ODE should follow the energy tax on the exception of greenhouse horticulture. They're double-buyer. They already have exceptionally low tax rates, which is accompanied by low rates of storage. Can the Minister indicate whether he believes that greenhouse horticulture will provide sufficient compensation through the CO settlement system, so that the maintenance of these reduced rates will continue to be justifiable in the longer term? I was just saying, in the end, the target is at least 16% renewable energy by 2023. But my group has questions. Are we gonna make it? How will the Minister's partners who fail to meet their reduction targets keep these commitments? What if the growth of renewable energy is disappointing in the coming years? At what point is this minister going to intervene? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement also states that the energy tax will be adjusted, including a minimum price for CO for the electricity sector. What exactly is going to change in the energy tax? What will this change mean for the ODE tariffs for the coming years? The same question also applies to the minimum price for CO. What's the effect on the ODE? Mr. Chairman. There has also been much to do about the introduction of CO capture and storage which can be partly financed under the SDE+ scheme in the future. Now that this minister has been on the move for several weeks, I wonder how he looks at this. Can the full SDE+ scheme be eaten by CCS in the future? Or does he also see the need to continue to devote part of the resources we get from the ODE and that come into the SDE+ to these renewable energy ambitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you. We have sometimes agreed that we would not use abbreviations here in the Chamber, but I think that the debate is almost impossible if we stick to that line. I hope that everyone who follows this is at home in the conceptual framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u51	I did have a question about the capture and storage of CO. That's what "CCS" means. I would like to refer to the little debate I had with Mrs Mulder. She had tearing words about the risk that industry will leave the country at the time we would change something in the ratio of lifting the storage of renewable energy. Does Mr Jetten recognise that, on balance, the coalition agreement will strengthen the competitiveness of industry, because it will receive additional money from the SDE+ to collect and store CO? It strengthens competitiveness. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u52	My group sees the whole sustainability exercise as a huge opportunity for the Netherlands and the Dutch business community to be the frontrunner in the global green economy and green jobs. I therefore hope that in the coming years the Minister will also succeed in getting Dutch industry involved in this. There are a number of companies that I think could produce much greener in the short term. I also hope that with the new climate and energy agreement we will make firm agreements on this; that we will not only make non-binding agreements, but also when the government says that we expect parties to actually deliver them. At the same time, I think there are a number of industries in this country that cannot become completely green in a few years. For this purpose, CO capture and storage is a means of producing greener products in the short term than is currently the case. I think that was exactly why GroenLinks is his election program had also included CO storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u53	I will come back to that later, but I interpret this long answer as: yes, it is a strengthening of the competitiveness of the Dutch industry that it may receive subsidies for the capture and storage of CO. Then it is quite logical to make a correction in the distribution of the levy in order to achieve the same balance that existed prior to the coalition agreement, and thus already existed in the original law. Then there is no reason for this coalition not to go along with a correction and it does not have to be very large in the distribution between citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u54	I have just asked the Minister how he will follow this division between citizens and businesses over the next few years. I think we should keep our finger on the pulse. I have joined with the legitimate questions that Mrs Mulder has already written about, or has just said. Sorry, I've had two nights of debate in this room. I can tell I'm a little tired. Mr President, Mr Van der Lee will be here shortly. He has now asked a number of people behind the cathedral about the fair distribution between citizens and businesses. It was GroenLinks' election programme in which the total energy tax for households would reach an average of €1,150 per year. It was the GroenLinks election programme with €2 per m of energy tax. €2 per m. That's about $220 per house for the ODE on top. GroenLinks, too, has simply put forward proposals in his election programme that we will all have to pay more for this sustainability statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks, who has registered for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The transition from fossil to renewable energy and the need to drastically reduce CO emissions are truly the biggest transition that Dutch society and economy have ever faced. What must be done in a very short time, in a few years, is a huge task. It is also a challenge with a huge price, but failure to reach Paris will have an even higher price. I say this particularly in the direction of the PVV climate deniers. If you're worried about high costs for citizens and businesses, you need to make yourself even more concerned about the situation where nothing would happen at all. I don't understand that inconsistency at all. This makes the whole story of the PVV in this area unbelievable. What we need to do is so far-reaching that it really affects all areas of our lives, not only energy production itself, but also the way we produce things, in industry and also in agriculture. It also affects the way we transport all these goods, but also people. It affects our total mobility and then the way we live, our homes and the way we use heat, electricity and energy. It's all got to be on the shovel. It's a huge operation. And of course, the costs are very high. Reference was made to the GroenLinks election programme. This programme will achieve a reduction of 86 million tonnes of CO by 2030. That is more than double what is now the ambition of this coalition. That does indeed mean very high costs. But that also means a radical policy of redistribution and compensation for these costs, especially for those living in the worst homes, with the cramped grants. That's what you have to do through good income policy. If you do not choose that route, you will be forced to look more critically at the distribution of costs within the field of energy taxes. Then you come across the problem that a 50-50 ratio between citizens and businesses seems fair in itself, but still becomes unfair when you look at the question of who is responsible for pollution. If there is no adequate income policy that provides good compensation, then you will also be thinking, as GroenLinks, about whether that distribution is fair. Then, unfortunately, you come to the conclusion that this division is not really fair and will become unfair if this coalition continues its plans. It's a target charge. The Sustainable Energy Storage Act aims to grant subsidies for increasing the share of renewable energy in our society. But we see that this goal is being changed and widened. There is a sudden need to finance energy savings, but also, and that is much worse, the capture and storage of CO. Now, in itself, we do not have anything in principle against the capture and storage of CO. It's not in our election program, by the way. Our programme contains substantial charges at the source, not at the end of the pipe with the consumer, but above all at the source. If you increase CO taxes considerably, this leads to investments, including in the capture and storage of CO. We do not need to grant subsidies for this. The planning agency says: based on the charges proposed by GroenLinks, the reaction from the energy sector and industry will be to invest in capture and storage. That is also what Uniper and ENGIE have tried in a project. As you know, that project failed. For the summer, the plug was pulled out, arguing, in particular, by Uniper, that they had included in their business case a CO price of €25 per tonne. But the real price was only €7 per tonne. They didn't come out financially and stopped the whole project. This shows that a good CO price is necessary to make capture and storage realistic. As long as we do not do so, it is a completely wrong way to finance it through subsidies, at least for 20 million tonnes; 18 million in industry and 2 million in waste disposal. The planning agency has already indicated in the transfer of the government agreement that the 20 million is truly unrealistic. Then you actually need more money than there is in the SDE+ right now. So it came to the conclusion that you can achieve up to 8 million tons via that route. We know from McKinsey, a recognized agency with some knowledge in this field, that for the Netherlands between 3 and 6 million tonnes of capture and storage is realistic. That's the best we can do. This coalition is on a completely different course. If you do that, that means you're going to spend a lot of money in favour of the industry, which, by the way, thinks differently, because for her this means a huge lock-in. They are forced to go much longer on fossil than they really would like. They also want to make that change and they also want to see renewable energy. I would like to make an urgent appeal to the coalition to reconsider this. I think they should do the same when they start negotiating an energy agreement 2.0 with all kinds of parties. Don't go on that route. But as long as you as a coalition are still on this route, and that is my question to the Minister, is it not real to look at the distribution of lusts and burdens and to think carefully about that 50/50 ratio? My group is proposing an amendment to that effect. We are not yet going as far as the SP Group, because we see that the consequences can be great, including for the competitiveness of companies. What's bothering us here, all of us, is that we don't know exactly what those consequences are. That is why I would like at least the Minister's undertaking that he will have a number of theoretical options examined what the consequences are, what it means on the purchasing power side, what it means on the competitive side, but also what effect it has on energy consumption, both among citizens and businesses, if you change some of the ratio of storage to renewable energy. On the basis of this knowledge, we can not only set next year's rates, but also in the years to come, this will take years to come, on the basis of facts, rather than on the basis of perhaps unproven arguments. Mrs Mulder shouted that Tata Steel was there a few months ago and I left the country. It sounds nice, but there's billions of dollars in capital there. It's almost a city. You can't just pick it up and move it. Of course, it could affect their profit margins, but we have nothing to do with slogans if they left the Netherlands immediately. We can better have a real discussion with each other on the basis of facts and research than we can beat each other around the ears with really easy slogans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u57	Does Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks share that CO emissions have been significantly reduced in this particular company in recent years? Is that right? Is that a fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yeah, that's definitely a fact. They also think in the long term and even circular. Steel production now uses 25% scrap. In the long term, we have so much steel in the world that we do not need to make new steel, but can use the scrap. We can melt that back and use it again. But there's still a long way to go. I also see and acknowledge that Tata is much more efficient than other steel industries, but I also see that they are the second largest source of CO in the Netherlands. Their electricity consumption alone is as large as that of the capital city of Amsterdam. That must also have certain consequences. Tata can also pay a higher price than at the moment, especially if you continue your plans. Because then you're going to fund Tata extra from that subsidy scheme, but don't let Tata pay harder in the storage of renewable energy. I don't think that's fair. If you choose that route and want to meet Tata, you must be consistent and make Tata pay a little more in the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u59	What if a company wants to invest? I am not just talking about Tata, I am talking about business in general. Such a company is thinking about a long-term future investment, which Mr Van der Lee also mentioned. If you then push the bill further for the companies, then that is what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance's amendment proposes, so make it unattractive to do these follow-up investments again here. This means, in the longer term, something for employment. Isn't that a concern shared by the Green Left Group? I am somewhat surprised at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u60	In fact, I think I feel that concern deeper than you do. I'm really looking to the future. What is the point of Tata Steel being the only steel industry in Europe to be completely fossilised while all its competitors have been through this transition? Do you really think that you are going to keep a subsidy scheme in place to make it possible for them to do so? No! That's what that company realizes. This would rather gradually switch to renewable energy than be imprisoned by you in a fossil corset.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u61	And I'm "you" and I'm not imprisoning anyone, so through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u62	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u64	Good. I just wanted to go into more detail about the care...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u65	But perhaps we will give Mr Kops the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u66	I'm sorry, but I just heard Mr Van der Lee say something about unproven claims. Then I really can't just sit there. That that comes from the mouth of a GroenLinkser, that is, of course, bizarre. But what naivety in this story! The bottom line is that GroenLinks wants to tax companies more and households less. Does Mr Van der Lee really think that the companies will not then pass on these higher burdens in their products and services, so that they will still be borne by the citizens? What kind of naive stuff is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u67	What Mr Kops does not understand is that there are also companies that produce in a different way. They also use renewable energy. That's the fun part; that competition is going to be created between different alternatives. That is also the whole purpose of the SDE scheme, namely that we are helping things that are still uneconomic, because we know that they are going to be much more profitable, because that CO price is going to go up once; far too slowly, because the ETS system is not working properly yet, but it is going to do so in the long term. Of course, that's what you want to achieve. You just want to make things that you know are better in terms of emissions more profitable. This can be promoted by increasing the burden on the fossil industry. There are alternatives. That's the way it works. That's not naive at all, but that's just basic economics. I have already said what is necessary about the position of the citizen. In that I would like to dwell briefly on the citizens with the cramped scholarship, who also live in the worst homes. Then you're talking about housing with the label F and E. Those are people who hire from others, who have no direct influence on the quality of their homes, and who also have the least opportunity to adjust their behaviour with this charge. That's what we came up with the word "energy poverty." That means you have to spend more than 10% of your income on your energy bill. In practice, you can see that some people can't do that anymore. And what do they do? Then they turn off the heat and they'll suffer cold. I find that unacceptable. You can compensate for that through income policy, but that is not enough, also because of this coalition. Then I feel compelled to support this instrument, while my party has enthusiastically supported it, and I also want to support it in the future, in order to look critically at that relationship. I would like to do that on the basis of knowledge and facts, so I call on the Minister to at least carry out research. I therefore hope that he will support my proposed amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party. He signed up today for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. What are taxes on Earth for? Would the earth be worse off without taxes? Taxes are on earth because we uphold the principle of dividing justice, so someone who earns a little more pays a little more and someone who earns a little less pays a little less. And we use taxes to discourage bad behavior and encourage good behavior. The latter is also the basis of ODE, the storage of renewable energy. The PvdA has supported this in the past and is also in favour of that basic principle: increasing the burden on fossil energy and using the proceeds to stimulate the production of renewable energy. But the system became unbalanced, and the Labour Party is deeply concerned about that. Firstly, there is injustice in the system. The polluter pays too little. CO would be priced, but is hardly priced. Although companies currently pay 50%, they should not only pay 50% of the ODE, but also pay a substantial price for CO. As a result, companies have a relative advantage and citizens have a relative disadvantage. The second point that makes the system unbalanced is that the burden falls disproportionately on citizens. If you are capitalized and self-reliant and you are able to invest in solar panels, then you can significantly print your energy bill. But people living in rental homes have little influence. Mr Van der Lee has just made the point. They have no opportunity to invest and thus reduce the energy bill and the tax. It is very unfair to hand out incentives to people who, no matter how stimulated they are, are unable to achieve the desired behavior, namely using less fossil energy. The PvdA Group considers this to be unfair. Does the Minister share that view? The third point that threatens to undermine the scheme is that there are citizens and businesses who are over-compensated at the expense of citizens who pay the tax. As an example, I would like to mention the ground remuneration for wind turbines. In the past €10,000 to €15,000 per megawatt was a very common rate. A farmer who has a few windmills on his land can buy a new Mercedes every year without having to trade in the old Mercedes. Five or six of those turbines of three megawatts on your land and you're already well above the beaming standard. All you have to do as a farmer is make your land available. You don't have to invest yourself. We have also seen this overcompensation in certain electric vehicles. The purchase costs of a Mitsubishi Outlander could be greatly reduced by a stack of subsidy schemes, but the pleasures of that concession and subsidies did not apply to you if you continued to ride on petrol in your Toyota Yaris. The fourth point the Labour Party is concerned about is that this operation is accompanied by huge transfers of income. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting a little nervous about Mrs Mulder, who seems to be dying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u70	I thought I'd let you finish this bit. But if that also makes you nervous, then I'm just going to intervene and then I'll give the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. President, are you nervous too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, I was thinking, let's finish this block on compensation. But it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u73	Yeah, spokesmen speak in cubes these days, too. That was the case during yesterday's debate. This trend is completely new. I have a question for Mr Moorlag of the PvdA Group. In recent years, of course, we have already seen what the distribution was like for the farmer who happens to own a piece of land that then comes up with such a mill. The CDA made a proposal at the time to change the distribution. We certainly wanted to when we found out about it.In fact, GroenLinks found out that there was actually a relatively large amount of money going there. Instead of dividing it differently, Minister Kamp has actually suggested that we just bring it down and just keep it the way it was. I think the PvdA was in the government at the time, but I didn't hear about it at all. What's with the sudden policy change? What innovative point does Mr Moorlag think this evening 'there must be a change'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mrs. Mulder is in the coalition these days. If this is such a shock to Mrs Mulders, you would expect her to have changed this in the new coalition agreement. The Labour Party felt in the past that there was an imbalance in this and that lusts and burdens were distributed unfairly. The Labour Party has very often advocated compensation for residents of wind farms. This means that the developer and the farmer have to settle for a smaller part of the cake and that a larger point of the cake goes to the neighbors. Mrs Mulder may have missed that; I understand that very well, because Members of Parliament are getting a huge overload of information. But that has always been the position of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u75	And that was in the past reason why CDA motions did not support this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u76	Oh, we didn't support a lot of CDA motions, but some of them did. I have not exactly kept an account of which motions Mrs Mulder specifically refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u77	No, no, no, Mrs. Mulder. You want to interrupt, but I'm not gonna allow that. Proceed, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u78	The fourth point the Labour Party is concerned about is that the step-by-step increase in the ODE in the coming years has caused huge transfers of income and that we are, in fact, pursuing income policies through the energy account, without being clear what exactly the effects are for citizens and households. The Labour Party, like Mr Van der Lee, who has just formulated this, has a strong need to gain more insight into these income effects for different categories of households, for example the people living in corporation homes, tenants and owners of residential properties. We are used to seeing point clouds in income figures of all kinds of households where it becomes clear what impact tax measures have on citizens. The Labour Party does, however, need specific insight into the effects of taxes levied on energy and the current transfers resulting therefrom. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to present these income effects annually in the National Energy Exploratory. Will there be an income chapter in the National Energy Exploratory with a really good analysis of the revenue effects of these and other taxes that stimulate renewable energy and inhibit fossil energy production? The question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to add such a part to the National Energy Exploratory. Mr. Chairman. My final question to the Minister is whether he shares the concerns of the PvdA Group that if we continue in this way, the basis and principles of this arrangement will be undermined, the rot will eventually enter the ODE and the support for the production of renewable energy in society will decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u79	We're talking about a change in the rates today. I wonder if Mr Moorlag knows where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yes. As I believe, at the beginning of my speech, the basic principle of the ODE is to stimulate the production of renewable energy and to reduce the consumption of polluting fossil energy. That is the basic principle and the Labour Party supports it, but the Labour Party feels that the system is becoming increasingly unbalanced. The shed is getting further and further away from the cottage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u81	That was a nice answer in terms of content, but I was referring more to the fact that the tariff change that is now before us comes from Rutte II. Well, we're both new in the Chamber, but we can both remember which parties made up Rutte II: VVD and PvdA. So I was wondering what Mr Moorlag thinks about his signature being actually underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u82	But there are two reasons why we should now be critical of the regulation. The scheme is not isolated. In the past, we assumed that CO would be significantly priced and that companies would pay a greater share of the price of the energy transition. However, that remains significantly behind. The companies keep the money in their pockets and are not taxed more heavily for the polluting activities they undertake. The second argument, also mentioned by Mr Van der Lee, is that the scheme was designed in principle to stimulate the production of renewable energy. In this coalition agreement, a substantial part of the SDE, financed by the ODE, is used for the capture and storage of CO. The tax is therefore used for purposes other than those for which it was intended. The Labour Party has a problem with that. Finally, the Labour Party has difficulty with the fact that the ODE will continue to rise in the coming years and actually become an instrument of income policy, in which it is not visible what is happening exactly below the waterline in households.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u83	Before you leave, Mr Kops has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Moorlag mentioned that he was sort of afraid that the enthusiasm for renewable energy among the population would decrease. I can tell him that's the case. Today, that was also in the news. This has been demonstrated by an investigation carried out by the Ministry. The enthusiasm for renewable energy is decreasing, while people are going to pay more and more for it in the coming years. The rates for the ODE are only going up. How logical does Mr Moorlag think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u85	Look, it wouldn't make sense to reason on the basis that fossil energy is available for eternity and that fossil energy doesn't damage society in the form of global warming. That's denied by the PVV. That's your right. We also saw in the 1950s that the dangers of asbestos were denied. I recently saw commercials in black and white, in which an actor in a white coat a doctor had to present in an advertisement for Camel stated that "even doctors smoke Camel," so why is smoking harmful to health? The PVV is still in that denial phase. That's okay in a free country, but my concern is that if you keep denying it, you're gonna intervene too late in this society when it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u86	That is indeed a very good, strong comparison! I remember the PvdA claiming to be right in election time, but in the meantime they're sitting here with only nine seats. So I don't know!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u87	It's not necessarily about being right. The Labour Party is not a dogmatic party, but it is a party that is concerned about climate change and the income effects of the ODE in the changed context created by the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz on behalf of the VVD. She signed up for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. In my time in politics, I have been able to deal with a wide range of issues. In Amsterdam I was mainly concerned with safety. In The Hague, I started my work as a MP with the temporary portfolio of development cooperation, media and emancipation. Today, for the first time, I can talk to you about my new portfolio: climate and energy. It seems to be a major step from gender neutrality to climate neutrality, but I can tell you that it is not that bad. In fact, this portfolio is about security as much as the portfolio I started in Amsterdam. Isn't a safe world automatically a viable world, a world in which we deal wisely with energy and a world in which we avoid the dependence of those in power that we like to be independent of? Mr. Chairman. The climate is changing. It's up to us to make sure that we leave Earth viable for generations after us. Because we take this responsibility so seriously, we are pursuing an ambitious climate policy. I think that almost all parties in this house are aware of that, but each in its own way. You know the VVD: we like to save on the tax money that everyone in this country brings in. There is no free market, and that also applies to climate policy. We must also bear in mind the costs that businesses and citizens have to incur. The energy transition is one of the greatest challenges of our century. In order to ensure sufficiently reliable and affordable energy in the future, we need to invest already. By opting for renewable energy through innovation, we emit less CO, we gain more and more control over our energy supply and become more independent from dubious regimes abroad. The 2013 Energy Agreement agreed on the financing of renewable energy. All households and businesses contribute via a levy on top of the energy bill, the storage of renewable energy. The distribution of this levy is fifty-fifty. As far as possible, a balance is sought between avoiding household purchasing power and protecting the competitiveness of businesses. That balance is very important for the VVD. I ask the Minister how he looks at the current balance and balance. The rates for the storage of renewable energy are set by law, and we can therefore agree to this legislative amendment. These funds go to the renewable energy subsidy, the so-called SDE+ scheme. Without this subsidy, the energy agreement's plans cannot be implemented. Companies and institutions engaged in developing a sustainable energy supply in our country can claim funds from the SDE+. By increasing the cost-efficient generation of renewable energy by companies and institutions, we all benefit from it. After all, energy prices are also getting lower due to increased availability of renewable energy. A good example of this is the tendering system for offshore wind energy, used by former Minister Kamp. The cost of wind energy is falling much more than expected. This autumn, even for the first time, a grant-free tender will be put on the market. This means that we can achieve more renewable energy at the same amount and thus CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u90	Did I hear the representative of the VVD say that the proceeds of the ODE are used to subsidise the generation of renewable energy? Is it used purely for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u91	It's en-and. It is used for this purpose and if it is up to us, it is widened and is also used for the capture and storage of CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u92	It is important that you note this, because it significantly alters the destination of the tax. I am pleased that you are making this addition to your contribution, because the impression was created that it was used purely for renewable energy generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u93	We are indeed in favour of broadening the use of the SDE+.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mrs Yeşilgöz spoke about the balance sheet. It's gotta be good. That's very important for the VVD. I can follow that, but only if it is acknowledged that the balance has been disrupted by a new decision. And that's that you're going to spend the destination in a different way. And then you change the balance. Does she agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u95	I have heard Mr Van der Lee very well and I think that we really differ fundamentally on this. CO reduction is central to us. And in order to get that moving as soon as possible and to start realizing it, it is important for the VVD that you use and use that SDE+ and that you also maintain the balance, the fiftyfifty. We are therefore fundamentally different in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u96	I don't think that's the difference of opinion. I think we both think that reducing CO is the top priority. But now we are talking about a specific instrument, with a levy and a target destination. And the goal is to increase the share of renewable energy. A balance has been found in funding: 50% citizens and 50% businesses. If you make a change in the target destination, you change the balance. That's just basic logic. I don't understand why that can't be recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u97	GroenLinks believes, if I have followed it closely tonight, that companies will have to pay more. GroenLinks would like to organise this balance, which is now 50-50, in a different way. We believe that the moment you do that, you run the risk of driving your companies out of the country. This is not only detrimental to employment here, but it is also very likely that they will go to countries with less strict rules, which is also very damaging to the climate and to the objectives we are trying to achieve with each other. I'm not willing to take that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u99	Where was I? Oh yeah, doing more, more effect, for less money. An excellent formula as far as I'm concerned. We have to be honest: for an ordinary household in the Netherlands, the monthly energy bill is a nice bite from the budget. My job is to ensure that when we implement the agreements that we have signed as a country and which we support, we are aware of the consequences for all Dutch people. A sensible and ambitious climate and energy policy does not mean that we should then sit in a cold and dark house with goat's wool socks in a dark corner. With common sense, you can take huge steps towards a more sustainable society and economy, but it must remain affordable for the households that contribute to it. This means that we are keeping a close eye on the energy bill. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this. I'm rounding up. I am convinced that this cabinet is ambitious in meeting these challenges. Henk Kamp was the greenest minister in our country so far. If it's up to us, he'll be overtaken by the next VVD man, Eric Wiebes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you. I have been told that the Minister can answer the Chamber immediately, so I give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. I'm still standing here after a little flu, so I'll try to do it fast. I hope I'm doing everyone a favor because it's 9:30. It's also nice to see this building in daylight, but that's not often given to me. I also work in cubes, because I like to join fashion. First of all, I would like to comment on the energy bill, the tariffs and the consumption. What exactly changes in the energy bill? A lot of questions have been asked about that. There are also many numbers mentioned, which do not all correspond. Then I would like to talk about the burden-sharing between households and companies. That is another point, but at least as important. Then I would like to comment specifically on the comments that have been made on the high versus low incomes. A question has also been asked about the budgetary reserve. Then I want spokesperson for spokesperson through the remaining questions, should I have missed things. It's true that the energy bill is rising. Mr Kops even calls it shady, but I would like to congratulate him from here on the fact that he was the only one who grabbed the NEV and got all the statis mark for himself. That shadowy can hardly have happened to him at home on the couch; he just looked it up where it is. That energy bill is also right, because the energy transition costs money. We'll take that out of the ODE. That's not new; we've been doing that for years. We are talking in this debate about the energy bill and the ODE determination for the coming year, and nothing is going to change that either. That's a well-known policy. It already existed and is known about up to the euro. Everyone also knows the mechanism of the ODE. Many of you have turned that into election programmes. I must say that I have not encountered a relationship other than fifty-fifty in any election programme, but I have seen something different in different parties. I therefore call them to some modesty, even though they have not exclaimed either. The SP has put €300 per month on top of the energy bill that is already in place in its own election programme and GroenLinks €600. That is all meant for purposes that many here support. Mr Kops has distanced himself from this, but all in all, it is shared here that we need to do something about it, that it costs something and that we need to achieve it in the end. What are the amounts involved? For 2018 this represents a total increase of €45 per year. This includes the increase in the charges of network operators as a result of the precario tax. That's a temporary thing, but that's happening now. I've only added it to the list. For another part, this is an increase in storage of renewable energy, which has been in the figures for a long time. It is also partly an increase in energy taxation, but it is occasionally and also already known. That's the $45. This is an increase in the average energy bill of a household of 3%. I specifically say "an average energy bill per household." I'm not talking about average household, because the average household doesn't exist. We can only share the total burden on the number of households. For 2021, the last year that this cabinet is still about, it is a larger amount, as many have pointed out. That is not what is happening today, and things can change in it. Some of the questions that have been asked here are indeed very important. They also belong in this Parliament and should therefore be discussed in detail between now and later. If you continue to pursue unchanged policies, the increase in the energy bill to 2021 is on average about €175 per year per household. This is a total increase of 12% over four years. I've heard higher numbers, but they don't seem right to me. The increase to that year, which is €175, is again the same precario levy between now and later. It's gonna disappear. So that goes off after that. The next year it goes off again. It is also in an increase in the storage of renewable energy, which is already known for the most part, almost 90%, even for the year 2021, because it is linked to the coalition agreement. So it's an increase that we all knew 90% of. There is also an increase in the energy tax. That's true. That's new. That's a coalition agreement. But it is also the desire expressed by many in the run-up to the elections to shift the burden from labour to consumption. This is therefore also a burden shift and not an increase in the burden, as it is channelled back through income tax. That's money we're getting back from another way. It is a shift that everyone wanted because it makes work more attractive and energy consuming less attractive. We have already taken this into account with a slow trend in the reduction of energy consumption as a whole. That gives that number. Of the €175 per year, which we see on the energy account until 2021, part of the precario levy comes. That €12 disappears the year after, because the whole tax disappears. And the backlock of €80 will be returned in a different way. All in all, the real increase in the energy bill is over €80, €7 per month. That's what it is. There are increases to pay for the transition, but also shifts. They're different. One is really to pay something we've lost together, the other is to tax in a different way. That's what it is. In doing so, I am of the opinion that you should also take with you the trendy savings. Not because every Dutchman suddenly has solar panels, which is not the majority of that trendy saving either, but because every now and then, whether you replace your refrigerator after five years or after fifteen years, I admit that I belong to that last category of energy saving. The same applies to energy-saving lamps. There are probably no people in the room anymore. I count on the public gallery for the convenience of it, although it is very empty and does not have energy-saving lamps. We are all participating in it and we are slowly seeing our energy consumption decline. The CBS sees that, too. Gas consumption has been declining since the year 2000 and electricity consumption since 2010. Every year the saving rate increases. That's what we are. We are people who use less and less energy in the household. I think it's wise to take this with me. There may be people in the room who deny climate change, but no one denies the energy saving lamp. That's what's going on. It's an increase. Is it serious? If you ask me, and many of you have done so, I think that is inherently serious. I'm from a past where I've been collecting taxes. I've seen what taxation and burdens do. Charges make it less attractive to consume. This may be nice in this case with energy, but people have less money left to spend on things they have chosen for themselves. I think that is serious and I welcome the fact that we are having a debate on this. We need to think this through, because we are working on the money that people have earned themselves. We have to deal with this very seriously, and I am grateful for all the attention that is paid to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u102	You will receive even more attention from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for an insight into the development of the burden and the behaviour of the citizen. I'm also curious about the other side, the companies. They are already as energetic in saving energy as the citizens. We seemed to get a decoupling between production, economic growth, and energy consumption, but this now seems to have been undone. We're living in a booming economy right now. Isn't that the right time to rethink, when you see that business doesn't save energy at the same rate as the citizen, and to see if it wouldn't be useful in that high-class economy, where record profits are being made, to take something of that margin and to use it to speed up energy transition in business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u104	I think this question belongs more to the second block of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u105	It is more like the second block, yes, but let me embrace Mr Van der Lee with this point. What he depicts is the foundation of exactly this coalition agreement. Yes, Mr Van der Lee, that is precisely why we are advocating a change of direction. Here is a four-party coalition, all of which had a different history, and perhaps also a different motive, to do so and have found each other in an extremely ambitious goal, whereby business has to join in one way or another. Do we have the recipes for that yet? No, we haven't. But there's a climate agreement for that. We're going to address everyone in this society. The landlords are mentioned, but also the industries. I'm gonna go check on the burden-sharing. It is a very important question whether this should mean a different burden-sharing, but it is not yet a fact. I welcome the objective and the burden-sharing is important in this respect. Many of you, which I am delighted to hear, start with the most logical economic principle that exists: the principle of profit or the principle of anti-profit, the consumer pays or, if you like, the polluter pays. The internalization of the external effects, that's what you'd like. That's how I start. This means that the person who consumes energy is the most administratively easiest when it happens at the time when the energy consumes it also pays. That's what you'd do. Mr Van der Lee has just made a bold speech on CO2 pricing, which I can only endorse. CO2 pricing is a way of doing exactly that, but then globally, so as to ensure that exactly that happens while maintaining the game field. Then there will be no uneven playfields, then there will be no leaking effects. That's how we'd like it. I'm totally in favour of that, but it's not like that yet. We cannot fully implement the 'polluter pays' principle. So we are giving rather eye-catching discounts on both the energy tax and the storage of renewable energy for the real large consumers. We do, because we have the strong belief that otherwise they will not stay in the Netherlands. No, I say to Mr Van der Lee, through the chairman, it is probably not the case that Hoogovens is packing his things, but it is perhaps true that in the world steel industry, in the overcapacity situation, an important employer with 9,000 employees could disappear. Maybe step by step, maybe in one go, but we do have our competitive position to defend. Prosperity in this country never came on its own. We are all equally outraged here, each of us in its own way; Mr Roemer has yet to remind me that I did not show any emotions, but I think I have more effect in a different way, but what we agreed on, in fact, this cabinet and the SP, was that we want to cherish employment here and that we want to do everything we can to keep those jobs here. This means keeping an eye on the competitiveness of the Dutch industry. So we're forced to set limits to what we burden them with. Therefore, the choice has been made on a declining tariff structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u106	I see Mr Van der Lee standing at the interrupting microphone, but Mr Moorlag was just getting up earlier, so I would like to give him the floor first. He came from beyond. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u107	If I have understood the Minister correctly, he says that the basic rule of this tax is that the polluter pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u108	I have said that that is the logical starting point of everyone's thinking and that you only want to make adjustments to that if you are forced to do so. And what forces us is the competitiveness of large companies. It has been said several times by various spokesmen here: if industries were to disappear for tax reasons, they would probably be delivering less good CO performance abroad with the same amount of production.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u109	Okay, Mr President, but I'm listening to a bit of: the principle of the ODE is that the bad guys, the polluters, pay and the proceeds will then be distributed to the good guys, those are the people who invest in renewable energy. But isn't it the case that in this coalition agreement the principle is that the bad guys, that is, those who produce energy, pay, and that a large part of the revenue will go back to the bad guys who consume a lot of energy? We are going to subsidise CO storage instead of producing renewable energy. Does this not seriously affect the justification of this tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u110	This is a bit of a break-in to the burden-sharing block, but let me answer Mr Moorlag's question, otherwise I would have thought of it later. In fact, it is a variant of the concern expressed by Mr Van der Lee. He says: if you get extra money from the SDE or the widened SDE... Let's call him that, because of course it can't be SDE. The first speaker, Mrs Beckerman, immediately said that this does not fit into a legal framework, and of course she is quite right about that. But if you were to grant extra subsidies to companies in the context of an expanded SDE, Mr Van der Lee said, you would only improve the competitiveness of these companies. That's a mistake. We are not putting this subsidy into a net improvement in competitiveness, which is simply called state aid. What we are doing is an uneconomic top-down that would not have been there without that investment and without that subsidy, just to ensure that competitiveness does not deteriorate. But it's not like, if you get a company to make an uneconomic investment and you cover that uneconomic part with a grant, you've improved its competitive position. What you have done is also something I support, because we do not need to improve competitiveness by subsidies. So the company doesn't benefit. The climate benefits. The company's competitive position remains the same, but CO emissions are falling. Therefore, and only for this reason, a broadening of the SDE could be useful. If CCS is going to fit in, to whatever extent, we will only do so because we will buy more climate for the same money. That is useful, because that means that all those Dutch people who have worked so hard for that ODE get climate effect back. And that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u111	Firstly, it may be good to say that I fully agree with the Minister where he talks about the CO levy and its importance. GroenLinks also wants this to be as international as possible and otherwise within the EU or within a leading group, because that really makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr President, I am counting on Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yes. I don't think we're having a discussion about that either. But what we are discussing now is a specific measure that is being taken in the Dutch market and that will eventually benefit the Dutch industry, because it will avoid a CO levy that competitors in the countries around the Netherlands will have to pay. Because they don't get that grant from their government to capture and store CO. This policy is thus a strengthening of the competitiveness of the Dutch industry. Then it also makes sense that you look at the nutrition of this subsidy, that you look at who actually pays for it. If you do not make a change, then it is not that the polluter pays, but that the polluter is paid to continue with a fossil energy supply and gets an advantage over industries in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u114	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u115	My question is whether the Minister should not acknowledge that the error of opinion is not with me, but with himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr Van der Lee's error of thinking on CCS is a reasoning that he can also unleash on any other form of renewable energy. Anyone who makes an uneconomic investment in reducing CO emissions will not have to pay a higher CO levy in the future. Moreover, should this levy also be reflected in electricity prices, the SDE mechanism will reduce that subsidy. In any case, the cabinet does not think that is what this debate is about, and I do not think that it is something that we can quickly agree on, that it is useful to deal with the money as efficiently as possible and to avoid as many tons of CO as possible, so that we get as much climate effect as possible for the money we have reserved and that we all have to bring about through hard work. In that sense, I'm technology-neutral. In what way, we will. This will mean that we will be able to bring in as many of the percentages as possible of what this cabinet is aiming at with the budget we have for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u117	Can we cut the next short question a little short, Mr. Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u118	Yes, very briefly. If that is the main rule, as cheap as possible, you immediately close the Hemweg: 4 million tons of CO. Nuon said 55 million euros and we shut it down. Well, I'm sure you'll get some off that. But that's by far the cheapest. You don't need such a complicated charging system and billions of grants for that. So I think you need to look a little more broadly at which euro will produce what CO effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u119	I think Mr Van der Lee has read with great joy that this cabinet is indeed going to close down the coal power stations. I would have stuck to that burden-sharing. I told you why this was put together at the time and why I used the 50/50 distribution now. Each of you has done the same in the election programmes. Once again, the question is essentially asked me what I think of that and to give it an appreciation: do you think that's unfair? First of all, I do not think there is any point in driving the industry away. It is true now, but that is also a kind of slight form of demagoguery that it is 20% individuals and 80% companies that benefit from it. Yes, then an electricity company that supplies to private individuals is a company. Technically, of course, that's true. But in the end, it also comes from private individuals. And if you look at where renewable energy is consumed, so not where the subsidy ends up, you can see that 30% is already with consumers. And if you include the effort in the products that consumers buy, then consumers will also go over 50%. All in all, this is a wrong kind of comparison as far as I am concerned. The important thing is that we keep the companies here, and that we collect the money in a socially efficient way in order to score the CO-tons as cheap as possible. Consumers do not benefit much from the fact that more is being generated on their roof instead of somewhere else, where it could be done more cheaply in society. We all indirectly benefit from spending the money we raise for this SDE as efficiently as possible and getting as much climate impact as possible. Whose roof it's on, it's verse two. That's my appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mrs. Beckerman of the SP has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u121	So because companies can easily leave and residents do not, we mainly burden the inhabitants. If they go to Belgium, they pay only €9 ODE, because there they have come to the understanding that this tax has to go down. But I want to ask you about the Planning Office for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u122	You already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u123	I already have. But you are actually saying very easily: yes, if we tax these companies, it makes less sense, and if we do it this way, the companies will stay here and it will be fine. But the Planning Office for the Environment actually says something that is diametrically different. It is said that 55% of energy is not taxed at the moment. And if, on the contrary, we place the incentive on the polluter and not, as at present, mainly on households, it is much more effective. Do you recognize what the Plan Bureau for the Environment says about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u124	Well, what the Plan Office for the Environment is saying is that as a principle, you have to stay as close as possible to the point that the consumer or the polluter also pays. That's what I agree with. But the Planning Office for the Environment has not devoted any analysis to how much you can lift before industries disappear. And the Cabinet did. But the starting point of the PBL is in no way weird. Only, with a starting point, you're not always there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u125	This is, of course, very easy. You're actually saying, well, I disagree with what the Planning Bureau for the Environment says. Actually, I find that shocking. You say, "Well, that study isn't really done well enough." Is that what you're concluding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u126	No, I'm saying that the Planning Office for the Environment has the task of thinking from an energy point of view about how to do that. It has done so in a very sensible way. I share that point of view. Only, we also have other motives that lead to the distribution of levies. And then the employment aspect is indeed important. That aspect is not part of the Plan Bureau for the Environment. So that consideration has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u127	Mr President, I would like to ask for a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u128	No, we're doing interruptions in two. No, you'll be asking for that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u129	Bon. Then different groups also ask how to deal with the high and low incomes. Of course, they are paying attention to this. If you impose certain taxes, they are likely to be a larger proportion of the income of low-income households, and a smaller part of the income of richer households. That is, of course, a fact and that is true. That is, moreover, the case without charges. Because the cost of energy without taxes is already a larger part of the expenditure of households with a smaller income. That is true, but at the same time it is true that not every burden or expenditure individually lends itself to income policy. I think Mr Moorlag actually accused me of pursuing income policy. No, we're not doing that here at this point. That's not what we're doing here because it doesn't belong here. In addition, however, the cabinet is very extensive in the area of income policy. In fact, the whole of August is about the focus of income policy. Then we look at all the burdens together, at all the income effects together, at all wage increases. That's all gonna get thrown into a pile. All family situations are calculated there, as far as I am concerned, up to a large level of detail, with groups as well as example households, precisely to do so. And that's important, too. Again, income and purchasing power policy is one of the main concerns of each cabinet, and also of this cabinet. It has been an important focus of this cabinet in the formation time. That's what you focus an important part of your attention on. That's income policy. This is explicitly the task of a government. That requires the greatest attention. There are questions of honesty and feasibility. That's where you make sure people don't have to sit in the cold. That's what you do there. But you do not do this at every cost, because then you have to do it not only with energy but also in all kinds of other areas. We do this all at once, and that's where the whole system and purchasing power picture are viewed. Now, between the lines, I understand that Mr Moorlag may not entirely agree with the results, but he knows, also from a previous cabinet, that that is what a government does. It is explicitly not linked to this specific tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u130	Did that bring you to the end of the head over high and low?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u132	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u133	In my memory, the VVD, and other governmental parties, are always quite consistent in the reasoning: if you introduce a target tax, the proceeds are spent on a specific purpose, and its funding also has a certain logic. Once you make the choice to change the goal, you also call off the discussion about its financing. Then there can be no way of blaming the opposition, as the Minister suggests, that she now wants to pursue income policy? But we have no choice but to put this issue on the table because the purpose of the levy is going to change. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u134	These two things do not have much to do with each other; I see that Mr Van der Lee himself does not think that this connection is very strong either. His point is: we raise a levy for a particular purpose and we shift the target. But of course we are not doing that now, because this is the tax for this year. In this year, there is no broadening. Yes, it is true that there is a widening of the coalition agreement. Moreover, this cannot be an SDE scheme, because it is about renewable energy, and that is not what Mrs Beckerman has already asked in the form of a question. This is another way to prevent CO emissions. Then at that point, you need to think about the funding, where you collect the money. That makes sense. It could come to the same thing, it could come to something else, but it is a fact that this money is not going to be spent on storing CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u135	That is what I really think is profiting from this debate, because this would mean that there would be a split in the measures, namely that you would have a financing for the storage of renewable energy with the aim of financing renewable energy with subsidies, and that there would also be a scheme with probably a different funding with the aim of creating the capture and storage of CO. Not that I'm here for that, but that makes sense to me. So I hear the Minister say that now, and that sounds like news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u136	That is not exactly what I said, but let me address Mr Van der Lee as much as possible. I say that the current SDE scheme is not appropriate for this. This means that there must be one other scheme that supports both ways of reducing CO emissions and sends the money to the cheapest or two schemes next to each other. I have no idea yet. That's all under investigation. But the fact that that is not possible in this arrangement is stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u137	I think there is a somewhat strange figure emerging in this debate. We should not talk about purchasing power cards for households, despite the fact that people from the left to the right have actually asked for these purchasing power cards. The Minister says: that is a different debate. But we are constantly talking about the purchasing power plates for companies. You might as well say: that is another debate. I thought I'd be sympathetic and meet the minister. I would like to ask him for a commitment. Minister, you yourself say that the Planning Office for the Environment is insufficient to do so. Can you not make your own calculation in which you show bandwidths and advantages and disadvantages for different income groups and also for companies, underlining that it may indeed be a problem for companies to go away, and I would like to see that substantiated, and in which you indicate to each income group what happens if we move with the different rates? Do you want to make such a commitment, so purchasing power cards for both companies and households and the options to shift?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u138	That's two very different things. In fact, Mrs Beckerman is asking for two commitments. I have heard from at least four sides that there is a need for insight: how do different households respond to these charges in the future? I think I've heard that from four different spokesmen. Here's what I can do. This does not mean that I look at income figures in full, but it is an important ingredient, important information about the impact. Right now, we're just looking at the average per household, which is an easy number. As soon as you do anything else, you really need to define households, so the number of square meters with a label. They're gonna be examples anyway. I think it would be useful to ask the PBL to write that down in the NEV calculations. Once again, I congratulate Mr Kops for wrestling through the book. There are certain states now. I can imagine that we have a certain deepening and different types of households. That's not going to be 100; that's impossible. But I can imagine a few different kinds of households.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u139	I'll take a look at Mr. Kops. It was a question from him. That question was also asked: which households have now been taken, now and in the future? That's how I wrote down his question. Is that what you're taking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u140	Two questions have been put by Mr Kops. One was about the type of housing. It's just the average. Not the average household, because there is no such thing, but the average of households. That's just the whole number, divided by all households. They're recording it now. But I can imagine that even more types of households will be taken into account. But I'll have to submit that to the P.B.L. There's got to be some kind of idea there. It's got to be executable, too. I take it I'm gonna discuss having this in the NEV every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u141	Thank you. It's a good thing the Minister wants to look into that. I would also like to know what consequences that could have. Let's say it's very disappointing for certain households. We just know that's gonna happen, that they're gonna pay a hell of a lot for their energy. What if that turns out to be the case when the Minister has looked at it, does that mean that the bill we are talking about here, the rates, is going to be off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u142	I think that's weird. We'll see what the rates will be and then they'll be disappointing. No, we fix it every year. So there is no more setback in that, Mr Kops must give me credit for that. That's the footage coming out. The most disappointing thing is that Mr Kops may have a different assessment than Mr Van der Lee. We're gonna see those numbers. I'm gonna try to think with him about a more differentiated image. To answer Mr Kops' other question straight away, namely whether those millions were in it, 'the millions of finance': yes, that is what it is based on. The departments sometimes call each other and they make sure that the same millions come into the state and the NEV is based on that too. It's not like there's another bill or anything. I do not think that suspicion is entirely appropriate. Then I would do the budget reserve. After that, several questions have been asked in more detail which I will go over as far as I have not answered them yet. The question about the budget reserve was, I think, Mrs Mulder's. It was: why are we not putting the budget reserve in place? Of course, that would have been conceivable. That may be possible, but that means that in order to have the same climate effect in the future, you either have to raise the levy again to earn that again, or lower your ambition. I haven't heard from Mrs Mulder about either. I also honestly believe that, if we look each other in the eye, we both embrace the 49% stake and do not want to save now in order to make the levy even higher in the future. So that's actually the reason. We have reserved the money for this purpose and not to reduce the burden, which would ultimately reduce the amount of money left for the climate goal. Then there are all kinds of questions. I think I have explained to Mrs Beckerman that the measures are always seen in conjunction with other energy measures and at all events with all income measures. Augustus is a party. It also asked whether "the more savings, the higher the rate." I think that's an intelligent question. That's actually the payout question. This means that if the energy consumption and therefore the base becomes smaller and the amount you want to collect remains the same, you will have to adjust the rate. Mrs Beckerman is absolutely right about that, and that is also good. That's just a little bit, because the savings per year aren't that overwhelming either. That means that the rate for the ODE goes up slightly. If that happens, the final account will, of course, be reduced. Mrs. Beckerman can put that in her pocket. The amount of ODE we collect remains the same, but what we spend on energy and fossil fuels becomes less. So the bill is going down, and that's what we're after. I answered the CCS questions. The job effects, I have no idea. I would say: let's wait for the climate agreement and see what comes out of it, and then we'll see what techniques actually come out of it. You might, if you try very hard, have a rough job effect on it, but I'm not even very hopeful about it yet. The planning of that seems complicated to me. Mrs Mulder has asked several questions. It has an important point, which has to do with low incomes. She asks her question in a constructive way. She says that low-income people also have these burdens and that this is disproportionate to their income. How do we make housing companies more sustainable, so that the people who live there also benefit from lower energy costs? She asks the same question about private landlords. This is, I think, one of the most important efforts of the climate agreement. It is one of the most difficult tasks. It has to start now too, otherwise we won't be done with it at all in 2050. It must go hand in hand with all kinds of other tasks in housing. It needs renovation here and there anyway. That is a fantastic task and that is what we are going to try to reach agreement on in that climate agreement. This is exactly what we need. Exactly this. Mrs. Mulder is asking about the netting arrangement. Yes, it is necessary to reform it. Look, right now, that netting arrangement is a return delivery. Therefore, you implicitly give a kind of subsidy that is determined by the amount of taxes. So if you increase the tax, someone gets more subsidy, while the subsidy you want to give should actually just be the size of the profitable top. So when solar panels become cheaper, you want to base your subsidy on that and not on increasing taxes. That is a wrong instrument at the moment. The subsidy is also likely to be far too high. The payback time goes to a very short time. The cost per tonne of CO will also be very high and the absolute cash load will soon reach 80 to 100 million. So we need to reform that. I think that her desire to come up with a plan before the summer and to have certainty about it as soon as possible is actually a very good suggestion. That's what I wanted to do. I will make that quick, because I also realize that we should not fall into some kind of valley where nobody does that anymore. In any case, I think we should say that the new regulation must also take account of the rights of people who have already begun this adventure in some sensible way. We shouldn't scare people off. So, through the chairman, through Mrs Mulder, let me tell the drivers of solar panels on their roofs that they should not be deterred. Then we have Mr Jetten's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u143	I think Mrs Mulder would like another answer to her question on SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u144	By the way, her question was whether we see a role for SMEs in this. This is, of course, in two ways, because SMEs must participate, but they must also contribute. The link between the E and the Z with the K also applies to SMEs. This means, therefore, that we need to get innovative techniques from SMEs and that we also need to involve SMEs in, for example, installation and so on. Of some groups in the labour market, which are also particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, we will soon have too little. We have a great amount of work in construction and installation. SMEs need to be able to make sales, but they also need to participate themselves and perhaps put the solar panels on the roof, if those are the techniques that we continue with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u145	My question was about that last point, because you do not have some kind of netting scheme that is also attractive to SMEs. Could the Minister, together with the business community, consider whether these options might be there and, if so, what would they be? And can he then put that back to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u146	I propose that I take this with the climate agreement, because that is a whole segment for which we may have to look at the instruments. Mr Jetten believes that the greenhouse horticulture sector is 'double bacon buyer'. He mixes livestock with greenhouse horticulture here. Since I joined my colleague in the hallway, I know more and more about the agricultural sector, but I also know that this is the portfolio of the Minister of LNV. I must, however, disappoint Mr Jetten slightly. Question from my colleague shows that the reduced rate is primarily intended to keep the competitive position well and not primarily to obtain a return in terms of energy. Nevertheless, the consideration of energy is desirable. But I have to refer to her for a moment, because I would soon make a mockery of myself when I go into the agricultural field and send Mr Jetten into the woods with bullshit answers. However, that is entirely up to me and not him. The N.E.V. says we're gonna make it to 16%. It's never gonna happen on its own. This means that a significant SDE effort is still needed. It also means that the Boring Commission has its hands full with people who want to jump out of the wheelbarrow. So that still requires a lot, but in the latest National Energy Exploratory I would like to put it this way in order to avoid an abbreviation, it certainly seems that this is being achieved. Mr Jetten said that the government agreement stated that the energy tax would be adjusted and that there would also be a minimum CO price. Those are really two very different things. For the ODE, I don't think that means anything. That ODE is needed to finance the SDE. It's on a certain level and no matter how we move, it has to be brought up eventually, so in essence I don't think that's a big difference. The energy load has a certain slide, but I don't think it has any influence on the ODE an sich. Then Mr Jetten comes up with the question of how to prevent us from spending all the money we collect with the ODE on CCS. I'd like to confess that I still have a headache when I think about how we're gonna get that 18, so before we spend it all again... when that happens, I'm celebrating my birthday for the first time in 40 years. But I don't think this is happening. It's highly untruthful that this is happening. What is important, however, is that we should take the most effective measure. We have not set out to nurture certain techniques or to spend a certain amount of money. We have set the goal of achieving a certain climate effect. We're on a ton of yacht. Given the budget and because we no longer want to knock the money out of the pockets of the Dutch, we need to buy our tons as efficiently as possible. An initial indicative outline of the extent to which CCS fits in was given in the coalition agreement. The odds that all the money goes up to that seem to me to be nil. We have to see what comes out of it, but we're determined to hold on to efficiency. We've been forced to do that, too. I have already answered several of Mr Van der Lee's questions in another part. I am less relaxed about competitiveness, for example in the steel sector. I also agree with Mr Van der Lee that energy poverty should not be allowed, simply because the income and purchasing power policies of each cabinet and of this cabinet should prevent poverty, including energy poverty. That is one of the goals that we have set ourselves. Mr Moorlag asks whether people in rental homes should also have solar panels. Yes, explicitly, but I think only solar panels are still a somewhat lean way to make the rental house sustainable. I think Mr Moorlag and I know he knows that from the situation in Groningen and I also know that there is a great deal to be done in Groningen, among others, in the sustainability of housing that is currently energy-deprecated. Much more needs to be done than the solar panels. One of the major challenges in the climate agreement is to achieve exactly that. This will be a huge task, but there is no alternative. So also the corporations have to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u147	There's one more question I asked. It's useful for my second term if I get an answer to that. That question is whether the Minister is willing to do the research into what the effects are if you change anything in the 50/50 ratio. I am concerned not only with the impact on purchasing power or on costs for citizens, but also with the question of what it means for the loss of competitiveness and the use of energy from both sides. Those three elements play a role. It would help the future to identify what these effects are based on a few possibilities. In this way, we can have that discussion with each other rather than just on the basis of our gut feelings or ideological views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u148	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u149	These are a lot of requests put together, which I'm just trying to unravel. It almost comes down to modelling the world. We shouldn't do that. I would just like to filter out a request which is very relevant and which was also addressed by Mrs Beckerman: how do we get an insight into competitiveness? How do we know as a Chamber that we could not increase this energy tax or ODE here or there in this industry or in that second, third or fourth disk? In itself, that analysis was done once. That is what the Secretary of State for Finance did in the previous cabinet. By the way, he's been kind of sweet on that for a while, I know by chance. There, a comparison has been made with different countries for different industries with different types of consumers. That was done at the request of GroenLinks. I thought that was an extremely useful request at the time. It's been done very seriously. As far as I am concerned, that letter is still a useful guide and should answer Mr Van der Lee's question, which is very consistent, since two years ago his group colleague Mr Grashoff had the same concern. I understand that concern. If you're gonna use a competition argument, you're gonna have to look at it. I thought that was a very sensible request at the time. Some things have been taken from my heart, but I do not know so much about the basic allowances that Mr Moorlag asked for. Let me see it as an incentive to go into that. I don't have an answer right now. The comment about the Outlander versus the Yaris is taken from my heart. Moreover, I can remember that in a previous cabinet, the Secretary of State for Finance put an end to this rücksichtslos, because he thought it ridiculous that we were driving an Outlander for 8.5 grand, while the Yaris had to cost 12 grand. I agree so much with Mr Moorlag on this point that I just want to refer to the Autoletter II. Then there is one thing I would like to be a little harsh on Mr Moorlag. He says that his party has supported that 50/50 in the past, but that there is a new fact. They had a different view at the time, because they thought the CO pricing would get stronger. Everyone can change their minds, and so can Mr Moorlag. He doesn't have to give me any reason why he does that. Politicians may change their minds, even if they are in a different position, but at that time it was more unlikely than now that the CO pricing would come from the ground and the SDE was already in the base path for exactly the same amount as it is now. With full respect for Mr Moorlag's change of opinion, I would say about the reasons he has put forward: well,... He may change his mind. Let him just do that, and we'll continue with that, but these reasons are a little invented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u150	We're gonna hear it. Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u151	Sometimes there are very good reasons to change your mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u153	I don't think dogmatism's gonna get you that far. The Minister is now highlighting a point. My point is that business has become more profitable. You can see that the labour income ratio is falling, and the CO price is not coming off the ground. All in all, not just that one point, it is certainly a reason to say that business is being treated with a velvet glove and that the citizen is being taken relatively more by the collar to pay the bill for the energy transition. That is the cardinal, principled point of the Labour Party. Does the Minister share this view that, in general, business is being spared more and that citizens are getting more involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u154	It is true that the reduced rates apply to large consumers. I also explained why that is. Those are also goals that we all support here. But I do agree with Mr Moorlag: if we are to put forward these kinds of motives, we have a duty to see whether this is still true or not. We must constantly look at this justice, because we do not want to send anyone with too high a bill into the forest. I agree with him. That is why this is a good discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u155	Then I have the question to the Minister whether he is receptive to a thunderbolt of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u156	Am I receptive to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u157	A thunderbolt of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u158	A thunderbolt of wisdom. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... I have listened to his concerns and I agree with him that where we impose burdens, either on households or on companies, we need to keep a close eye on whether this is justified and sensible and whether it is possible to do so. That's still the duty. I am sure that Mr Moorlag will continue to keep me on that point in the years to come, and he must do so. Mr President, I think I am through with the points now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u159	I'll take a look at the members. Has everything been answered? I see everyone nodding. Is there a need for a second term? There is. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Beckerman as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u160	Mr. Chairman. I have five minutes, so I can read very slowly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the revenue from the renewable energy scheme ODE is used through general means to improve the sustainability of energy supply through the SDE+ scheme;]] [[noting that the cabinet also wants to use the proceeds for CCS, putting CO under the ground;]] [[Considers that this means using money to reduce CO emissions to stop CO, which does not benefit the energy transition;]] [[calls on the government not to use the proceeds of the ODE for the storage of CO but to use it for the effective transition to a sustainable energy supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u162	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. It is very good that he is prepared to identify what will now be the cost for the different types of households. Thank you for that. But, of course, it doesn't change the fact that, instead of taking advantage of all kinds of averages of households with solar panels, this should have been done a long time ago. At the beginning of his reply, the Minister said that the energy bill would increase by €175 on average by 2021. We're talking about favorable maths, but I don't quite understand that. How realistic is that? Because we are already dealing with an energy tax that is increasing 38%. That's an average of 160 euros. Isn't it true that the increase in the ODE will be added to that? How are we supposed to see that? Well, then, $175 is way too low, isn't it? Once again, it is good to map that cost picture, but then we also need action. It is, of course, very good that the Minister acknowledges that lower incomes will be the main victims, that they will be affected by a high energy bill. Of course, but do something about it! The Minister acknowledges that there is a significant increase. He even called that increase "serious." Again, do something about it! He just said he doesn't want to send people into the woods with too high a bill. Again, do something about it! He's in the position for that. Mr. Chairman. What the PVV finds may be clear. Hopefully, the first deadline has shown that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish storage of renewable energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u166	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to this Minister for his reply and for the commitment to proceed with the netting arrangement. I think a lot of households were waiting for that. They may also consider whether or not they want to do so in the future. This Minister has made very clear statements today, and I am very pleased about that. I think that makes everyone excited to continue investing. He's also coming up with a good review. Maybe he can look specifically at how this review, which he sends to the Chamber before the summer, works for SMEs. Then all this has been taken into account at once and then we do not have to wait for the joint consultation. Then we might be able to take steps in advance. I am also pleased that the Minister has said that he wants to meet the people who do not have their own roof and who may not have savings that they can invest in solar panels or use them for isolation measures. They rent, for example, or have a house for sale but do not have their own savings. The Minister sees them as a group that we should be the first to work on. I'm just gonna let you know what speed you're gonna have. Preferably as soon as possible, so I say to the Minister. I am sure he will be able to get on with this with his colleague, so that he can come up with concrete plans as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u167	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment to proceed quickly with the adjustment of the netting system. Thank you also for the commitment to make the cost picture clearer. I am also curious about the SDE+ scheme and the storage of CO. The debate between the Minister and Mr Van der Lee has just been interesting. I must admit, however, that I am surprised that the Minister here says that the current SDE scheme is not yet suitable for the objectives we have with the CO storage. I am also looking forward with interest to the various variants that the Minister is designing for this. I am also curious as to the length of time at which the Minister expects him to be able to send further information to the Chamber. I can imagine that we will have a first interesting debate on this in the climate budget in two weeks' time, but at a later date we will also be able to have that debate. Finally. The minister just used a beautiful term: barrel hunting. I actually think that this is a nice frame for the task that the groups supporting this coalition have given to the Minister: tonne-hunting. In my view, that also means that this minister will be responsible for this tonne-hunting for all the ministries in the coming years. I just asked him a few specific questions about greenhouse horticulture. I can easily imagine that, in other debates in the future, we will also be asking questions about very different areas than greenhouse horticulture. Then I hope for a somewhat more comprehensive answer than we have just received, because this tonne-hunting means that this minister is fully responsible for achieving the CO reduction and that he will also occasionally have to encourage his fellow ministers to achieve that CO reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too have many words of thanks for the Minister. I enjoyed the debate and his attitude, his will to explain things and also his curiosity to seek better solutions than are now on paper in the coalition agreement. I was therefore very pleasantly surprised that the option is on the table that, in addition to the storage of renewable energy with the aim of subsidising renewable energy, there may be a second measure, a storage of CCS. I'm just using that English abbreviation, or else you have to say storage for capture and storage. It's a little weird to say that in Dutch. I was just trying to think of a nice name, but I don't have one yet. Maybe the Minister can think of it. He's going to work on two measures. At least, I hope that will be the outcome. I also hope that a difference will be made in the diet, so that the 50/50 ratio in one scheme does not necessarily lead to a 50/50 ratio in the other. Because I'm not sure this is going to happen and maybe we're going to have new discussions about what happens if you change something in that 50/50 ratio, I'm still asking for a little more insight into what happens when you change that ratio. I am aware of the importance of this in terms of the competitiveness of companies. You have also made a commitment on purchasing power effects. There's a third element. If you're going to change something in that ratio, it has a potential impact on both parties' energy use. I would like these three things to be considered in conjunction with a number of variants. That could be 50-50, 45-55, 60-40, or maybe even Mrs. Beckerman's option, 80-20. Then we get a little more insight into how big the effect is when you change something in that ratio. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the impact on the purchasing power of citizens, the competitiveness of businesses and the energy use of both groups, if the current 50-50 ratio in storage of renewable energy between citizens and businesses were to be different, and to develop this for a handful of theoretical options and make it available to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Praise for the Minister's tone, but I'm too much Groninger to be honest. In terms of content, I think that the commitments are somewhat lean in a number of respects, to my liking. Segmenting the storage and incentive schemes for renewable energy production is a good thing in itself. I think there really needs to be a separation. Once a year I visit the village of Jantje Beton to collect money for playgrounds. If they came by next year and said "we're not picking up any more money for playgrounds, but for maintaining the shop in our village," which ultimately also contributes to the viability, I'd feel a little bought. So I think that this separation between renewable energy subsidies and the cost of CO2 storage really needs to be made very sharp. As far as I am concerned, the Minister's commitment may be a little more firm. My question is whether he is prepared to do so. I think he's being too light about my concern about the acceptance of this arrangement. There are more resources going to the storage of CCS and we are giving stronger incentives to citizens who cannot influence their behaviour, because they do not have the investment power to isolate their homes or to provide solar panels. In the area of overcompensation, the Minister has undertaken to investigate this carefully. I think that is positive, but the transfer of income is a matter of concern. If a zoning plan is drawn up in my municipality, an extensive environmental impact report will be drawn up. Then all effects, for example for bats, snails and rare plants, are very well portrayed. The Minister says that he would like to present this to the NEV for a number of households, but as far as I am concerned, this really should be done with great depth, for different types of households and homes. My question to the Minister is therefore to make a firmer commitment to this. That is what I am waiting for and, if necessary, I shall come back to it in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u173	Oh, maybe one more comment. I'm also a little less positive about the barrel hunt of D66. If we have a ship that makes water, we can use a lot of capacity to flush out the water.This is going to store imagery for CCS.But we can also try to close the leak so that less water is flowing in. I'd like to put that into perspective anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u174	Thank you. You started your speech by saying: "I am too much Groninger to be honest." I would just like to say for the record that you probably meant 'not to be honest', otherwise you will not be able to go home, Mr Moorlag. I think that's how we got it straightened out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u175	Thank you. It is sometimes said that Groningers are too honest to be friendly. Drentenaren is said to be too kind to be honest. There is something else about Frisians, but it should not be in the Acts!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u176	That's it. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u177	What am I supposed to do as an Amsterdammer? I think I'll just go and compliment the Minister. Thanks for the answer. I look forward to the coming years and the debates we will have. I have two motions that I'd like to read straight away. The first motion concerns the competitiveness of companies. A lot has been said about that. We think it would be a good idea if we looked at energy prices to see what the competitive position would be at the moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that households and companies are both contributing approximately 50% to the collection of the ODE;]] [[noting that a balance between the greatest possible flexibility in household purchasing power and the protection of the competitive position of businesses is the basis for this distribution;]] [[Whereas a comparison was made a few years ago within North-West Europe of energy prices of large consumers;]] [[calls on the Government to review that investigation and to inform the House of Representatives about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u178	The second motion is about getting a little more insight into the figures so that we do not get an unclear and confusing situation, as we have had in recent weeks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an energy transition is necessary to combat climate change;]] [[Whereas there has recently been concern and uncertainty about the increase in the energy bill to co-finance that energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to provide greater transparency and clarity in the annual National Energy Review on energy consumption figures and the increase in charges on top of the price of energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u179	I'll suspend for a minute or two. Then the Minister can get the motions and prepare for the appreciation. I would ask him to give an appreciation to the two amendments that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u180	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have made it clear that I think the question of the percentages, the 20-80, 40-60 and 50-50, is simply a sensible question and a sensible debate. But I think I have also made it clear that I am deceiving all the amendments on this subject. That can't be a surprise. But let us go to the motions and ask the remaining questions. Mrs Beckerman says: let us now use money that has been raised as a storage for renewable energy and that has landed in a renewable energy subsidy scheme for something that is not renewable energy. The law won't allow that either. So in that respect, I can do the motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. Embrace nine. If Mrs Beckerman meant "we will never make anything up with CCS in the future," I would advise against that, but she does not write that down. I think she's writing down something that's right. We can't do this either, so I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Kops said to me five times, I think, 'do something about it'. He's filing a motion, in part no. 10, not to do anything about it, about the climate. He's the only one in the Chamber who doesn't want to do anything about it. I would say to Mr Kops: let us do something about it. But I absolutely must advise against this motion. Mrs Mulder urges me to consider opportunities for SMEs in the netting scheme. Let me take that. I'm gonna break my mind about that. Mr Jetten wants to know from me when there will be a proposal for an extended SDE, which should not be called SDE. Let me say in the middle whether it is one new scheme, the CO-emission reduction scheme, or whether it is two different schemes. After the summer of 2018, there must be a proposal for this. There are all kinds of European procedures: you shouldn't end up in state aid cases and stuff, so it takes some work. But that's about the timing. Mr Van der Lee is making it complicated with his motion in part No. 11. He's a politician who thinks like an economist, but he doesn't model as an economist. What he's asking here is very complicated. But let me mention the three elements. The way it says it, it can't quite be done, but maybe we'll come a long way. I'm gonna go look. How the distribution of 50-50 or 40-60 affects households will soon become easy. In the N.E.V., we get those statements. It explicitly states which piece of ODE is in it. You only have to multiply that by 0.8 and you have the 40/60 distribution. Mr Van der Lee can do that at home. We can all be complicated about that and start printing it all into pieces and asking the NEV, but that's a bit posh. That multiplication can be done. This means that we know what influence it has on a household to choose the 40/60 distribution instead of the 50/50 distribution. I leave that to Mr Van der Lee. A much more difficult question he is asking is: what influence does it have on energy consumption? Then we'll get into the edges of elasticity. There are so many uncertainties that I simply do not think it imaginable. I do not think that these margins can be used to assess what this means for the energy consumption of individuals. I think we are overestimating the modelability of this. The levy is not primarily aimed at reducing energy consumption, but primarily at raising money, which we can then put into sustainability. I therefore believe that we are not playing over my hand in this way. That is what it really is, and I therefore simply do not consider it feasible. I find that competitiveness very useful again, but I don't want to do it that way that we... Look, you don't determine a competitive position by modeling a 40-60 or a 50-50. You just look at how much space there is compared to competitors and then there may be a certain distribution. I actually wanted to do that because of the motion in part No. 12 to be carried out. That is the Yesilgöz/Mulder motion, which calls for that investigation to be re-examined. It must be clear whether it would be difficult to change the relationship and where that would be difficult. 'Cause it's not one block of melted cheese, either. It's a little more nuanced. If we go rücksichtslos with all percentages up and down, we go here and there not over the line. It is good to look at each industry and then Mr Van der Lee can draw all the conclusions he wants, and so can I. My proposal is that the motion in part no. 12 to be carried out. I shall therefore leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber as well. With this we have the feasible ingredients for Mr Van der Lee. You can't get the purchasing power out, because it will be determined in August. But the energy bill follows from the fact that I have the motion in part no. 13 for greater transparency. This means that we can see for the different households what the impact on the energy bill is. We can determine the competitive position and then we can have a debate on whether the relations we have chosen in the past can be re-examined. That's how far I can go, because there's not much else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u182	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee. Very briefly! We're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u183	No, Mr. Chairman. I do not want to continue the debate but to find a constructive solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u184	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u185	I'm also prepared to amend my motion. There are three elements in it and the Minister says: "One element is not to be done. The other two can be done, but you can calculate that yourself." I can do that, but what I would like is for the Minister to give us a calculation that everyone gets so that we don't have a discussion about whether I counted correctly. What I am asking is to look at the two things that are already going to happen in conjunction and then let go of some theoretical options, so that we have the same information and can discuss it with each other. If I were to make that adjustment to the motion by removing the third element, is that something that will change the Minister's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u186	If we do that systematically, I think we're making a fool of ourselves, because that's just a multiplication sum. I am going to look for Mr Van der Lee; he wants to see that once before the current situation. Let me see if I can fit a sleeve there. I am here for the budgetary treatment with such a essay about what the average energy bill is going to look like. I don't do that in all kinds of other variants, because that simply doesn't work. It's about, according to the NEV, the average energy bill now. I'll show you what happens when you let go of a 40/60 variant, for example. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u187	Then you could hold your motion. You can change her if you are not satisfied. Is this how we're gonna do it? You nod and I therefore assume that I can conclude that Mr Van der Lee is holding his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u188	I would like to look at the other two motions tabled by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u189	I do have to say something about that motion, Mr. Chairman. The motion has three elements. We've now discussed two. I would actually like to make this more competitive. The proposal that is before us... The request from the Chamber for the review of the work that has been done is actually more finer and, in all honesty, more useful, because everything comes out when you go raw with those percentages up and down. Straighten up? Yeah, then things always go wrong somewhere and we're organizing our own accident. Let us try to do that with the fineness I have proposed by going along with the motion of the other two spokesmen. Then I've had them all, but I haven't answered all the questions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u190	No, but you've now provided two motions with an appreciation. You said, "I'm gonna do it." Are you taking over them or are they judging Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u191	Should I just leave them judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u192	Both judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u193	Or is it appreciated that I'm taking them over? I always have the idea that in the annual contest for the number of motions taken over doesn't count anymore, or anything like that. I don't know. I don't know how you want it; I'm just gonna run it. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u194	"Judge Chamber" we have noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u195	Then there is Mr Moorlag, who says that I am being too light-hearted about the basis of support. Of course I'm not. This subject has just been monopolized by Mrs Mulder, who is concerned about it, as do I. We have so much to do. Whole neighborhoods have to turn upside down. The basis there is always precarious, not only because of this. It's facts that we all have to do that, that the government chooses to do that and that it costs money. Even if you do it in the most efficient way, it costs money and we have to pick it up somewhere. It doesn't come from one pick-up and not from the other, it means that we collect it through taxes and so we pick it up again from everyone. I don't want to be light about it, but I'd like to set the picket poles right, so we don't make accidents. I am not at all light-hearted about the support and I will take his warnings seriously in every debate. I hope that my commitment to the motion on the development of the various households was sufficiently firm. I will try, in consultation with the creators of the NEV, to make this something insightful. It is then up to Mr Moorlag to see whether I have been sufficiently thorough. I would also like to say that if the ship is full of water, it is good to close the leak, but we will not get far without hozen. Mr President, that is where it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u196	I give the floor to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u197	I question whether that motion fully covers my question. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to include in the NEV an income impact assessment for different types of households, but above all for different types of housing. The minister says all the rental houses are going to be preserved. We know that there are between 200,000 and 250,000 homes a year. This means that the last homes will only be preserved by 2050. The people living in those houses will have heavy energy costs for a long time, which will be extra heavy due to the ODE and possibly also due to the separate load on CCS. Are you prepared to include an impact assessment every year in the NEV?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u198	In this case, an impact assessment of income simply amounts to an energy billing impact assessment. However, I would ask Mr Moorlag to give some consideration to the fact that we have an exploding undertaking here. In households, you have ten characteristics that determine energy consumption, where we come in different timelines and uncertainty keeps increasing. We shouldn't ask over again, because then the NEV book becomes twice as thick by this explosion of the number of variants. I ask him to allow me to focus on a feasible package. I'll leave it to him to say if he misses things. I'll find out by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u200	Of course, I can't be against feasibility. I made the comparison with an environmental impact assessment. With a municipal zoning plan for the project development of a few million, a report of 70 or 80 pages is written quietly. This has a real impact on income and the burden of families. I would ask the Minister not to be too modest in this and to provide the Chamber with a really fine-tuned overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u201	I heard Mr Moorlag. I share his concerns, but I would like to say right now that it is not going to have the scope of an environmental impact assessment. I do not think that is feasible, whatever disappointment I may cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u202	This brings me to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u203	The votes on the motions and amendments will be taken next Tuesday.
