ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We shall begin with Mr Koopmans' question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would like to welcome. I give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Several Dutch Twitterers have recently received a Turkish injunction sent by Twitter in response to tweets and cartoons sent by these Dutch about Turkish President Erdogan. Apparently, Turkey wants these Dutch to appear before the Turkish court for something they did in the Netherlands. In fact, because of something that we in the Netherlands consider very common and even very important, namely giving your opinion and making jokes about politicians. The VVD considers this an unacceptable attempt by President Erdogan to restrict Dutch freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right. This is the Netherlands, and the Netherlands is ours. I don't want President Erdogan to touch that. This isn't just about a few funny cartoons. This is about protecting our cartoonists, our opinion makers and our democracy. Can the Minister confirm that the addressees can ignore these Turkish warrants as foreign interference? And that they're also ignoring Twitter's question to indicate what they can do with this warrant? And that they can joke about that again? And that he will do everything in his power to support and secure these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Madam President. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the issue of Twitter, which is now playing and then also about freedom of expression, as at least we respected it in the Netherlands. Out of coverage in the media, in different newspapers and on different websites, it has emerged that Twitter, an American company, has been asked or ordered by the Turkish judge to remove a number of cartoon prints about Mr. Erdogan, including a cartoon cartoon drawn by the Dutch artist and cartoonist Ruben L. Oppenheimer. Twitter is an American company and will therefore also have to be approached through the US authorities. It is therefore not for me but for the US authorities to assess such an assignment from the Turkish court. I trust that the Americans will carefully assess this request, and I think it is quite clear that freedom of expression, and certainly freedom of expression on Twitter, is very high in America. Should a request for legal aid be made to the Netherlands in this matter, and then I come to the question of freedom of expression, it will be examined in the light of our legal opinions. As I said, freedom of expression is a great asset in the Netherlands. This is guaranteed by the Constitution and by the European Convention on Human Rights. In general, I would like to point out that in the Netherlands foreign legal aid applications are not simply carried out when they are seen as insulting. It is my policy not to implement requests which are contrary to the principle of public law in force in the Netherlands. You can count on such requests in respect of offences of expression falling within the scope of freedom of expression. I would also like to stress that we have not received any request for legal aid from Turkey in this regard. That is logical from the point of view of what I said at the beginning, but I wanted to say out loud how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister is actually ahead of my next question: so people can be sure that they will not be extradited under any circumstances? I think I just heard him say that. Can the Minister confirm that these people will receive all the help and assistance, possibly collective assistance, to defend themselves against this ridiculous attempt by the Turkish Government to interfere in Dutch democracy? Can the Minister confirm that, possibly together with his Foreign Minister, he will do everything possible to raise with the Turkish Government that these things are really unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	There can be no extradition of a Dutch cartoonist. I can tell you that dealing with humour in a healthy, positive way has, in my case, even led me to do so on No. One of the hit parades I've been able to determine. I think that's the right way to handle these things, too. Then you ask if people can count on our assistance. I have already said that if there were a request for legal aid from Turkey that was related to this issue, I would really let freedom of expression prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	Can the Minister, therefore, promise the Chamber that in subsequent attempts by the Turkish Government or other governments to restrict Dutch freedom of expression, he will report this to the Chamber, and also what he will do, possibly with his colleagues, to counter this? I will of course retweete this cartoon with great pleasure. I call on other people to do the same. Can the Minister agree that cartoonists and other artists of the free word are stronger if we are all standing around them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	Then I come back to freedom of speech. That's really what's at the heart of this. You ask me to make a commitment that I will report it here every time a foreign power tries to deprive Dutch citizens of their freedom of speech. You can be sure that I, with all the other members of the cabinet, will make that kind of intervention, which is contrary to our rule of law. I can't promise you that I'm gonna send reports on it every time, because I don't know exactly how to shape it, but I think it's gonna be visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	If I understand correctly, the Minister says here that he will be alert to all these situations and that, where there is such a serious breach or attempt to infringe our fantastic freedom of the word, he will report to the Chamber on this. I understand that he does not know exactly when this is going to happen, but when that sort of thing happens, he will mention it so that we can all care about the artists of the free word and other defenders of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have just said that I do not know very well what to imagine in such a report. There are all kinds of reports that come to your Chamber in the area of upholding human rights. I don't know if I can tell you that I'm going to come up with a special report on this. I have told you that if such a situation arises, I will oppose it, and I am sure that all the other members of the cabinet too. I think it's gonna be very visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Minister has just spoken about how he will get in touch with the Turkish Government. Can he elaborate on that? How will he do that? Does he possibly see this kind of threat from other governments, which he can deal with with with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	On this issue, I see no reason to contact the Turkish Government. It is not the Turkish Government, it is the Turkish court. It will have to turn to the American authorities. That's one thing. Another thing is: if there were a Turkish request for legal aid that looked at restricting the freedom of expression of any writer, cartoonist or other Dutchman, I would have said enough about how I look at it. Otherwise, I'd really be repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Unless you have another question, but you are also out of your speaking time. Thank you. Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	There is a difference between taste and this disgusting image, this cartoon, can also be disputed. But what cannot be disputed is freedom of the press and freedom of expression. There is absolutely no question of that when it comes to a despot who is locking up as many journalists, cartoonists and members of the opposition who are critical. Since last year, more than 300 journalists have been arrested, 180 of whom are in prison. This man doesn't stop in Turkey. He now also wants to silence journalists and cartoonists abroad. If it is serious to this minister and this cabinet that they stand up for freedom of expression and freedom of the press, then I would ask the Minister to consult the Turkish authorities on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	There are regular contacts between the cabinet and the Turkish Government on the human rights situation. I am not going to go any further into that, because that is something for my foreign minister. If the Turkish Government says 'we want a request for legal aid in respect of a Dutch cartoonist, because we do not think that what he is doing is appropriate according to our standards', then I have made it quite clear that I will not participate in it in the context of freedom of expression. That's the jurisdiction I have. The other part of your question really focuses more on my foreign minister's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	But, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u17	Your second question, Mrs Karabulut. No? Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u18	This concerns not only the foreign minister, but also the person responsible for the freedom of the press. I welcome the words of both colleagues and the Minister on the importance of freedom of expression. My Turkish is not what it was, but I think the complaint was lodged with the Turkish court by the Head of State. It is also important to send out a diplomatic signal that this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u19	That was Mr Snel on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u20	Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u21	Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u22	Your question is whether that will happen, but, again, that is a question for my foreign minister. I really wouldn't think it right if I said that here. I have made it quite clear, let there be no misunderstanding, that the Minister for Justice and Security says that we would not allow a foreign power to intervene in the freedom of expression or that a request for legal aid in this area is answered negatively. I can't tell you any more powerful than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Sneller, your second supplementary question. No? That's what I thought. Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u24	I would like to continue with my colleague from D66's question. This is not a Turkish citizen, it is the Turkish Head of State. We do not currently have relations with the Turks at the highest level, because the Dutch ambassador is not there. There are many reasons for this. But there is contact with the Turks. In this case, I think it is absolutely necessary to discuss this with Turkey too. This isn't just any case. He's not on his own. We're dealing with several people. The complaint was made on the basis of a complaint from the Turkish Head of State. We know how that works. I actually think that the government's response here is a little weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u25	Well, there's a difference between taste and qualifications. That is clear. I have answered the questions that concern me. You think it is weak, but I cannot say more strongly that freedom of expression leads us to believe that we will not allow intervention in this kind of expression in the Netherlands. That's one. I explained at the beginning that this is a court order to the American company Twitter. The Turkish judge will have to realize that he must do this in America, because here they will be declared inadmissible at all. That may be a legal term, but that is how the legal system works in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u26	I have a very short question, also in connection with what my fellow Members asked earlier. It is clear that the Minister has given an answer within his competence. He refers to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a number of issues. Would it not be possible to ask him to discuss this issue, which is so wide in this Chamber, with the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u27	If you're asking me that question, I'd be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u28	That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u29	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u30	If a fellow Member does not ask that question, but comes up with other things and with disqualifications, then I cannot answer this in the affirmative, and I do now. That's how it works, I guess. So I'm willing to do that, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u31	I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u32	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr President, thank you very much on behalf of Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-2.u34	It is not intended to exchange thanks for oral questions, but I do not count it as a second supplementary question from Mr Ten Broeke and Mrs Ploumen. Let's move on to the next question. I thank the Minister of Justice and Security.
