ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. I give the floor to Mrs Visser as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps a little strange that we are standing here, because this would be more of a hammerpiece, we have been discussing this for a long time and the Netherlands has also been failed by the European Commission because it has not implemented this directive in time. In the written input, the CDA also asked how it was possible that the Netherlands had failed in 2015 and that we are only now discussing this bill. Perhaps the Minister could answer that, because the reaction was that it took a long time because it was complex. The question then is what is complex about extending the deadline and what exactly it was in. I said in a procedural meeting in the previous Chamber that I would like to 'deham' this bill in order to table an amendment. Mr Van Helvert and I have now submitted this for the third time. I hope three times is charm. The first time it did not go well because the amendment was not put to the vote. The second time it has been adopted in this Chamber, but the bill itself has not been passed. The amendment therefore lapsed. I'm gonna take a third shot now. I would like to stress this, because it has been a great irritation over the past period. I think that over the past five years, the CDA and the VVD have put together perhaps ten sets of written questions about traffic offenders with a foreign registration number. How can we not be able to ensure that we exchange the data in good time, so that we cannot punish someone with an Italian or Romanian license plate that rips over the A2 at 180 km/h or runs through red light in the middle of a city? A number of steps have been taken in the exchange of information. A number of countries have also opened their registration records. The second step to be taken is to connect the ICT systems. This is now happening step by step. To this end, CDA and VVD, together, have taken the initiative on several occasions. We are only concerned that there is now a group for which it is still not technically regulated, but for which the agreements have been made. Those people do commit traffic violations. It is about our road safety, but it is also about the sense of justice. I'm being arrested, luckily, even if I commit a traffic offence, but someone with a foreign license plate that is not linked to our ICT systems, who doesn't drive too fast. The amendment is designed to ensure that we include this safety net for foreign traffic offenders in the law. As soon as it's settled, it's fine. Then there is no need for the amendment at all. I have previously asked written questions, including to the Minister of V and J, about the possibility of extending the deadline. The Minister replied that there are possibilities under the Law Mulder. He was willing to look into it. At least this amendment is a step in the right direction to take another look at it. The goal is really to be able to deal with the foreign registration authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Visser on the input of the VVD. I can fully agree with that. I say one more sentence, and I will leave it at that, because we are not going to do anything double-cross. There are two things. That is first of all the international agreements. They're tricky and take a lot of time. That is one thing, but then we really have to look at ourselves and not just point to international agreements. What we can really do ourselves in the Netherlands must also be done as quickly as possible. Dutch motorways should not be free racetracks for Eastern Europeans. That is why this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u4	I think the Minister can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr. Chairman. Although I always like to do my best to satisfy Mrs Visser, I still think that three times in this case the charm is not going to apply again. This amendment, as it has already pointed out, has already been discussed at its core when dealing with two previous legislative proposals. Although I agree with the content of the amendment, namely the extension of the time limit for imposing sanctions, it will in practice not produce many additional penalties and, above all, legal and practical objections. The starting point for processing flash violations is that it is automated because of its efficiency. This also applies to flash infringements committed with foreign registrations. As soon as the flash data from EU Member States can be processed automatically, the current deadline as we know it will in principle be sufficient. The amendment is actually aimed at a legislative proposal from V and J, but is brought here as aliens. I can tell you that, in addition to the eleven current Member States with which he already agrees to exchange data, my fellow Member of Parliament, Mr V and Mr J, is also committed to linking a large part of the other Member States to automated processing in 2017. In my view, this will enable the vast majority of cases to be dealt with within the current deadline. What are the legal issues with this amendment? The maximum period of five years is very long for the minor traffic offences covered by the proposal. It is also a question of whether judges consider that reasonable. In any event, practical consequences are that the CJIB and the Public Prosecutor's systems need to be adapted. This takes a lot of time, capacity and money, but has little added value in enforcement, as it will produce little extra fines. It can already be done in the agreements we have made with the eleven Member States and the Member States that will be added later. Next thing you know, this is what's going on. Now submitting the amendment to this bill, which is a repair of a notice of formal notice by the EU, means that the progress of this bill will be made dependent on the bill of retention of registration data by the police. In the meantime, the First Chamber has said that it would like to continue the further procedure until further notice in order to hear experts and to ask whether it makes sense. By entrusting the present legislative proposal with the amendment, that procedure in the Upper House will apply to this bill. However, I have a huge need to have it repaired before 1 July, because otherwise we will be brought before the Court. Mrs Visser asked why it took so long and noted that I could have repaired it earlier, while it took two years. That is because this is a letter of formal notice for incorrect implementation. If the Commission considers that a Member State has implemented improperly, it can start a pilot and will ask a Member State for further explanation of the points it suspects have not been properly implemented. A Member State will then have 10 weeks to respond. We did. On 22 October 2015, the Commission failed us. The Netherlands subsequently responded to all the points raised by the Commission on 21 December 2015. We have promised adjustments and given a planning of the adjustment. The next step is for the Commission to respond with a reasoned opinion. It then determines whether and, if so, when it releases it. The Commission did so at a later date. On 16 June 2016 we received the reasoned opinion. On 12 August 2016, we responded again by sending an updated schedule of the necessary adjustments, starting with the target date of 1 July 2017 as the entry into force date. The Commission subsequently decided on 15 February 2017 to refer the Netherlands to the Court for incorrect implementation of the Third European Driving License Directive. That's how the procedure works. We must therefore ensure that we have repaired it before 1 July, otherwise it will be serious business. In other words, the content of the amendment is sympathetic. I believe that its implementation will also be regulated by the Minister of Justice, because we have agreements with 11 Member States and a number of others will be added. If we do this, there will be a whole system change because the five-year deadline is much longer than the current deadlines. It creates the risk of default, with fines for our country. So I'm afraid there's going to be a big delay, both in the First Chamber and in other places. I therefore strongly advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u6	Then it is good that I have the response of the Minister of V and J to the first amendment we tabled then, namely the ANPR legislative proposal. In that he says: I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I hear this Minister now making a number of arguments, which I think would have been included in the letter responding to our amendments. The Minister points out exactly the problem: we have the data from 11 Member States. In my opinion, there are still 28 Member States. Perhaps one Member State will be less in two years' time, but we do not have the data from the other 17 Member States. We cannot therefore impose fines on residents of those Member States. This amendment is intended to ensure that you have that safety net. The implementation problems and everything the Minister says should have been answered in this letter. I am curious to see how it is that all sorts of implementation problems are now being mentioned, which were not mentioned in last year's formal response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u7	I do not think that the Minister of Justice could at that time claim that you were going to table the amendment to this bill. My objection is that this will make the notice of formal notice on this law a problem. If we have not made the adjustment before 1 July 2017, Europe will go before the Court. Why the Minister of Justice then left the judgment to the Chamber, of course, I cannot fully ascertain. The Minister of Justice has given me homework now that I have to defend this for him. Justice says: 'We have an agreement with 11 Member States now. That is not enough, but we expect a substantial number to be added in 2017.' Justice will continue to work on the exchange. It is not just a list of eleven Member States; it is really Member States with which the concern lies. You mentioned Italy as an example, but a whole series has been mentioned. The expectation is that the problem will solve itself. The Minister of Justice has sent several letters. In the first letter he wrote "judge chamber." In later letters, he wrote that the consequences should be better investigated. I'm sticking to my judgment. I would strongly advise against the amendment. I understand where you're going with this, but you're grasping something that is causing you another problem that could cost our country a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u8	I want to respond to this. In my view, content and process are now mixed up in the Minister's response. The Minister says: I do not want to do this, because then I get a letter of formal notice and because then Europe goes to the Court. That is her right, and she has explained it well. Mr Van Helvert may be going to ask about this, or else I will. The point is that the Minister gave substantive arguments as to why this amendment could not be. Of this, I say: these were substantive arguments in relation to problems of impact, namely that all kinds of systems need to be adapted. They must be adapted anyway, otherwise you cannot exchange data with all those Member States. My thesis is: If this is so, then it should have been in previous letters. I am therefore very surprised that it has been said first that the Court of Justice is 'judged' and that it is now said, on the basis of the content, which was not previously shared with the Chamber, that it is not really possible to do so. Those are really two different things. If the Minister says "I just don't want it because I don't have the law by 1 July," that's her right. Then I get that line. However, I find it very strange that the substance of the amendment cannot be accepted and that it is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u9	I did not say that it could not be done in substance, but that there are legal and practical objections. A legal objection is that it is a maximum period of five years. It's a question of whether the judge thinks that's reasonable. The practical consequence is that the systems of CJIB and OM need to be adapted, while my colleague says that we can do so within the current deadlines, provided that we make good agreements with all countries. There are now agreements with 11 countries and more are coming. This solves the problem in practice. I understand your commitment. You say 'I want to be sure, so let's just record it', but my comments are actually two-fold. If you link it to this bill, there will be another problem elsewhere. If you continue to do so, it will at least mean a more expensive and heavier procedure than the path that the Minister of Justice now wishes to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u10	The reaction that the Minister is giving now is precisely why a lot of people feel bad about politics. Foreigners drive too fast here in the Netherlands and get a fine, but they don't have to pay it. Or they should get a fine, but they don't get one. If we drive too fast in the Netherlands, we get a fine and we have to pay it. We give something to the government with which it can arrange it, but the government says: difficult, difficult, difficult and difficult and this and that. If it were easy, this point would not be in the Chamber now, because it would already be settled. If the Minister for Security and Justice says that it will be all right if we make good agreements, then he should have already made them. We've waited too long. It has to be done now. We've reported it a number of times. The Minister for Security and Justice has said: 'Good idea, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.' That it is difficult for this minister, I believe, but if it had been easy this point would not have been here now. I would like to expect a positive opinion because this is what we want in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u11	I understand that Mr Van Helvert would like to have a positive opinion, but I have to consider all the interests. We have a legislative proposal in which Europe has failed to do so. Before 1 July 2017, we need to make adjustments. If we do not comply, the Netherlands can be brought before the court. I find it very difficult to attach this amendment to this bill and at the same time to bring about all kinds of negative consequences. Then there is the debate on whether you want to settle it as indicated in the amendment or as proposed by the Minister of Justice. I think it's worth talking about this longer, but not about this bill. That is why I strongly advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u12	I have the impression that this is not really the advice that was asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u13	I so liked my first debate with the new Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u14	Finally, Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u15	Yeah, finally. Mr Van Helvert's and mine irritation lies in the fact that we have been working on this for so long. It's been promised over and over that this would be arranged. I hear the Minister saying that it is being taken care of, but that is after we have been asking written questions about this for five years with the request to settle it, to the left or to the right. Whatever you have to do, make sure it is regulated for road safety, but also for the sense of justice. I'm starting to feel like "wait a minute, we'll take care of it." The point is that it is not settled and these fines cannot be collected. You're also putting road safety at risk. I also point out the sense of justice. I would like a little more than the promise that it will be dealt with in a different way. All I hear now is, it's gonna be okay. That is exactly why we have been pushing this so hard over the last five years. Just make sure it's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u16	I think the Minister of Justice has a bill on police registration records in the First Chamber. The First Chamber has indicated that it wants to talk about it a little longer. It is therefore not the case that the Minister of Justice is not acting in this area. He's very active on it. I understand that a strange amendment has also been tabled in the draft legislation on a tractor registration number, whereas that bill has not gone through at all and that the amendment is therefore subject to a different legislative proposal. There's big consequences for that. Once again, it is best for the debate to take place in substance at the place where it should be arranged and not an amendment that causes another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u17	In my view, there is no need for a second deadline and we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-14.u18	We will vote on the amendment and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
