ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the final report by the informant and I would like to welcome Mr Zalm in box K. For this debate a speaking time of five minutes per group has been agreed, and the order of speakers is in the order of magnitude. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Yeah, it's time. There's a coalition agreement, I'd like to report. It is an agreement that I am enthusiastic about, an agreement in which the normal Dutchman really gets better. It's a coalition, as you know, with four very different parties, which the SP doesn't belong to. And now he's getting the floor. At least, I assume that's your intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have heard Mr Rutte say it for a few days now. Can he describe what an ordinary, normal Dutchman is, who belongs to it and who doesn't belong to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	That is for me everyone who wants to make a positive contribution to the country. That's everyone who's at work, gets up early in the morning and does their best. Those are the people who, due to circumstances, cannot do so now, but would like to do so. Those are the people who have worked hard in the past and rightly deserve to enjoy their well-deserved rest. Those are, in other words, all those people who want to make something of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Many people look above all at the circumstances in which they have to live and see if they are making progress. The world is more than just purchasing power. Let me give you a few examples. Whoever spends years in front of a rental house waiting for a decently affordable home but doesn't get his turn and sees that this cabinet doesn't do anything about it, is that a normal Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	For me, the normal Dutchman is anyone who wants to make something of his life, anyone who wants to make a positive contribution to the country. They can be people who have retired and worked hard, they can be people who cannot work because of circumstances. I said earlier, when I wanted to be the leader of my party, that this includes the welfare mother who wants to get out of that situation and get back to work. I'm behind all these people. I fight for all these people. Those are the ordinary, normal Dutch people for which this cabinet is in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Beautiful words and practice are two different things. Let me just conclude straight away: the people in the welfare system will simply decline in the years to come. The €2,000 they will spend the next few years... What's left isn't taken away. They're going backwards. The normal Dutchman would have improved on it at Rutte. So according to the VVD, Rutte, someone in welfare is not a normal Dutchman. The Wajanger is simply cut off on his allowance, and according to the VVD, according to Rutte, is not a normal Dutchman. That Mrs. De Wit who was sitting at Nieuwsuur last night, is put in a chair in the morning and hopes that in the evening there is someone to put her back to bed is not getting any better, and is therefore not a normal Dutchman according to Mr. Rutte. It is quite typical what the VVD thinks is a normal Dutchman. Apparently, that's the shareholder. They get the presents. The big companies, they were at the front of the line. But the most vulnerable in society are abandoned. Apparently, those are the uneconomics at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes, Mr President, it is of course nice to do some kind of speech in the form of a debate, but it also helps me to say to Mr Roemer if we listen to each other's reactions. And why do I say that? Because I sincerely disagree with him. That's not this coalition agreement. So if that's his attack, he's attacking a wrong cabinet. That cabinet won't be here. What we want with this cabinet, what we want with this four-party coalition, is precisely that the people in this country who have seen in recent years in the crisis that it has been worse, that unemployment has increased, that incomes have fallen and that there has been a need to cut down on important public services, that in the years to come it is actually going better with the Netherlands, that we can invest in important matters such as our security, our education, our care, and that income improves. We see that all income groups, including those in benefits, are improving in the coming years and that there is an increase in purchasing power. But the most important thing you can do, I say to Mr Roemer, is to improve the situation of someone who is in benefits, except for purchasing power now, to ensure that they can get to work, to create jobs. This is also a programme that provides additional economic growth. In the end, this also means additional employment. That is precisely why it is important for the Netherlands to remain attractive to companies, because there are those jobs there. In small and medium-sized enterprises, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in large enterprises, so that the people for whom Mr Roemer is fighting, and for whom I am fighting, will eventually get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's a big bullshit story to throw up a lot of fog. The most vulnerable are caught on all sides with this story. In the coming years, people in the benefits will simply decline. The austerity that was already in place is not being removed. Wajongers go from 75% to 70%. They don't get a chance, but they get hit in their wallet. People who want to stay home longer, see that the help in the neighbourhood, the nurse in home care, is being cut off. They're all people who abandon this cabinet. Then you can keep up nice stories, that there should be jobs. That 93-year-old Mrs. Van Dijk doesn't need a job. That Mrs Van Dijk wants decent nurses in the neighborhood and not that they are being cut. This ordinary, normal Dutchman is often caught by this upcoming cabinet. I'd be a little more sparing on your words. Just come out honestly for what this cabinet stands for, for the shareholders and for big business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. This is really from that flat rhetoric that Mr Roemer is apparently going to grope in right now. He should know that for himself, but let me discuss the problem of community nursing. Because what's the real problem there? That is actually two-fold. Firstly, too few people are currently opting for a job in healthcare and secondly, there is too much bureaucracy. What should we do with each other now to make sure that more people in the Netherlands are going to choose a job in healthcare, whether it's community care or long-term care, so that people who are immediately dependent on that loving care actually get that care? For that, we need to talk to each other with a little respect about that business. Mr Roemer, once in a while when I hear you talk about health care in the Netherlands, I understand that many people in the country think: I do not want to work in this sector. I think it's our joint expensive duty to make sure they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mr Roemer, there are other Members who would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	I cannot deny that this Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, has a great deal of nerve in this matter. Thanks to his policy, 80,000 jobs have disappeared in healthcare. You chased them all away. The salaries of people in home care are to cry. They have to try every time to get something out of it and start fighting. You chase them all into the WW or to other work. And then home care and the neighborhood nurse; there will be cuts in the coming period. You drive them all away. And then you dare to say here what a beautiful craft it is. Shame on you, Mr Rutte!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. If you look at how many people there are in the care: there was another investigation this week. Over the next few years, we are dealing with tens of thousands of people in care. So what are we supposed to do with each other? That people want to work there, too. In addition, that was my second point, and we must ensure that the bureaucracy there is reduced. That is one of the reasons why we have one of the most bizarre words in this coalition agreement: the term'scrapes'. That is actually a special term for something very normal, namely that you ask people from the execution, in this case nurses, to show where that bureaucracy can be reduced. Not only nationally, from the ministries, but also in the institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	Many people who now look at home, those ordinary people of Mr Rutte, feel betrayed again by him. You can stand here laughing, you can stand here making jokes, but a lot of people who are watching TV now and hearing you talk feel betrayed again. They see on the one hand that they get a tax cut and on the other hand they see that they get a tax increase, that they have to pay more for their groceries, more for their shoemaker, their bike maker, you name it. They see a VVD that says "we're going to give more than 1 billion extra to development aid" while that neighborhood nurse gets cut off while hospital care goes to the sharks. But perhaps the most important thing, they don't trust Mr. Rutte anymore. For Mr Rutte was the one who said: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. He said, after the last time they first intervened in the mortgage interest deduction: that's it. And what's he doing now? He's gonna take those people's mortgage interest deductions again. He is going to fine the people who have redeemed their house, who have repaid their loan, who have repaid their mortgage. Don't you see, Mr. Rutte, that you've betrayed the people and that your motto "trust" is gone when it comes to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	(NL) Mr President, let me try to get through the various elements right away. VAT first. If we were to increase VAT, point, then I would join in protesting what I just joked about yesterday, "the three friends on the left," who are constantly attacking the cabinet. Then I'd join these season ticket holders. But I don't, because the VAT increase goes back completely in lower charges. Not only that: there is more load relief, so working Netherlands will feel it in its wallet over the next few years. I think that's good. If you ask for something more in terms of consumption and do much less in terms of the burden on income, so that you actually have more left in your wallet, that's good news. Then there's the mortgage interest deduction. We're speeding up the phasing-out, but that goes back completely in the home forfait. So it is not a burden increase for the owners of the houses. That money goes all the way back into the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	Not a word about that billion extra to development aid, which the Dutch do not get, but first of all I would like to talk about the mortgage interest rebate on which Mr Rutte went. Politics is about trust and trust in Mr. Rutte is away from many Dutch. Why is that? Let me quote one quote from Mr Rutte, which he said five years ago about the measures taken by the previous cabinet on the reduction of mortgage interest rates. Even then there was Rutte's lie: saying we don't do it, but we do it anyway. Mr Rutte then said, and I quote, "This is it. This is what we're gonna do for the next 30 years. You can now make your decisions on the basis of this tax information." That's what Mr. Rutte said. He said: "For 30 years, we will do nothing but cut that half percent per year off the mortgage interest rate deduction." And, "People, you can rely on that. Make your decisions about buying the house or redeeming your house, so that you immediately have to pay less and less for that house." That's the point. That's where you fooled them. It's not about all these measures alone. It's about trusting the person Rutte. You are, Mr. Rutte, a political con artist!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	Then you'll have to tell the whole story, I'll tell Mr. Wilders. This is half the story. This is the story we're doing in terms of limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction. But the whole story is that we're going back to a two-disc system, which makes it possible to give working Netherlands a very heavy relief. Mr. Wilders once had a period in his political life that he also thought was important, and in which we give the acceleration of the reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction all the way back to his own house. Let's move on to development cooperation. What are we doing there? First of all, the following. What we have brought forward in the past and the future expenditure because of the enormous mounting pressure on asylum: we are correcting that error. Secondly, during this period we spend an additional amount once. Why, Mr. Wilders? I thought you were fighting for things, too, which are how we prevent disadvantaged migrants from coming to Europe. How can we stop that? You do that by taking away the root causes of migration. You do this by making agreements, wherever possible, with countries in the region to ensure that there is as much reception as possible. That's what we're gonna do with this coalition. That is why I think that expenditure can be justified. If you look at development cooperation in a structural way, we will get back to the path we were on, namely 0.7% minus the 1.3 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr President, all these matters will be discussed in detail with Mr Rutte in the General Reviews. This interruption is about trust. It's not just about the files, it's about trust. Mr. Rutte, you said in the Chamber five years ago, "This is what we're going to do for the next 30 years. You can now make decisions: buying a house, closing a mortgage, clearing the mortgage debt with the Hillen Law in mind. You can now take decisions on the basis of this tax information." So you had first, five, six years ago, in your election program: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. Then you were going to do that: breach of confidence 1 with the voter. You were gonna do it anyway, half a percent a year. Then you told the voter that we would do that for 30 years. You can unload, that's good for you, buy a house and take a mortgage: breach of trust 2. Now you say we're not gonna do that, we're gonna do it, go, in three steps, big. You're saying you're gonna cut down the Hills Act, which gives people an advantage if they pay off quickly, something that you're gonna encourage, in 30 years. Who do you still believe? That's what you said at first about the mortgage, but that's what's going on three times. People don't trust you anymore. Speaker again, it's sad. We're about to get a prime minister who's being trusted by a lot of people. For the third time, a prime minister who's just a flat political swindler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	What you have to do in politics, I say to Mr Wilders, is take responsibility. That's crucial to trust. You shouldn't run away when things get tough. Mr Wilders and I have had this debate before. If you take responsibility, you're willing to drive, too. I think, and the cabinet is going to take care of that in the next three and a half years, that if things go better with the Netherlands, people should feel that in their wallets too. If we take measures in the area of mortgage interest relief, and we will do so, this accelerated phasing-out will go back to our own house. We said to people in 2014: we ask you to pay off your mortgage in full. The VVD is a party of financial solidity, and so is the other parties in this coalition. You have to be careful not to do things that are necessary now when they are a huge blow to the budget in the future. You have to take a lot of time for that, and so do we. I believe that this is a very justifiable measure. Were they in the VVD election program? No, Mr Wilders, you are absolutely right, they were not. Is it painful when you have to do things? Yeah, that's painful. But can it be defended in the entire record, with a heavy load relief? Yes. Again, these kinds of considerations, making choices in scarcity, is driving. That's taking responsibility. That's asking people to trust to live up to their responsibilities. You might want to do something about that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. The coalition parties are talking about the normal Dutchman. I'd like to ask you about that. This implies that the coalition parties also see that there are unusual, abnormal Dutch. I'd really like to know which groups they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	Well, Chairman, no. I don't see any abnormal Dutchmen. I hope that a lot of people do crazy and fun things and follow their initiatives and express their energy within the law. It's also part of the ordinary, normal Netherlands that we do a bit of those things together and chasing our talents. This country leaves a lot of room for that. This cabinet wants to take office for the people who have paid the price of the crisis in recent years and for the people who are genuinely concerned about a number of developments in our society that they say: does politics see these developments and how can we reverse these developments? How can we ensure that, on the one hand, we allow asylum seekers who really depend on our reception and, at the same time, do not keep the people who are not entitled to it endlessly in procedure? How can you then ensure that people, if allowed to stay, integrate into this society as soon as possible and learn the language? We want that balance, so that we can answer the questions of the people who paid for the crisis and those who really, sincerely and understandably worry about a lot of things. Those people, who are now sometimes seeking their political salvation from the previous speaker, want to appeal to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	I fully agree with Mr Rutte that we need a lot of unusual people, because we have to face major challenges. Then we need unusual ideas. We need abnormal thinking to see how we get out of this crisis, especially when it comes to climate change. The strange thing is that this cabinet apparently continues to focus on the normal, ordinary Dutchman who has a certain amount of money in his wallet, which can therefore make the Netherlands bigger and grow economically. Surely we should have a much broader focus, regardless of numbers and money, to offer these great challenges? I find that limitation of the normal, common Dutchman very conservative. I am also surprised that a progressive party like D66 has written this coalition agreement with that kind of Brussels sprouts mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'll explain that to you. Your analysis doesn't add up. If your speech had been correct, D66, and indeed the VVD and the Christian Union, would not have signed this agreement. But that argument doesn't add up. Yes, of course, the people have felt the crisis in recent years. Unemployment has risen. Luckily, it's running back a lot now. People have felt it in the wallet. People have felt the uncertainty. People also see that additional investments are needed, in defence, police, education. We do, and I think that's very valuable. Now you are absolutely right: there is more than just money. I have often explained it to Mr Klaver: yes, money is important but there is more than just money. And so, over the next few years, this cabinet will also focus on, for example, managing migration in a sensible way and ensuring that the core values of our society are re-established, that the equality of men and women, of homosexuals and heterosexuals, of whites and blacks, the democratic rule of law, that it is discussed again, and that people who come from outside realize what kind of society they are coming into. These are also important intentions that this cabinet has. And that's not conservative. That is progressive, that is liberal and it is also confessional politics. It is bringing these different parties together into a common agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Rutte obviously has a definition of what a normal, normal Dutchman is. Then you have to comply with those conservative ideas about when you contribute to a society and when you don't. That's a very limited way of looking. We don't need that at all right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's not what I'm talking about. If Mrs Thieme hears that in my speech, I would like to outline it again in a few sentences. For me, the normal Dutchman is "I've said it more often" anyone who wants to make something of his life. I don't want those people to just do it, but they're normal Dutch people because they're people who have ambition, who want to achieve the best for their families, for themselves and for their future. If they're in conditions where they can't, they need the shield for the weak, the government, sometimes. Then we'll be there for this group of people, too. So it's about everyone who's of good will. That's not just a money issue. This is also a question of how we politicians look at the society, of which we are a part, a member and a participant. So it's about genuine concerns that live with people. We also saw it in the previous election campaign. Now there are twenty seats for the PVV and so many seats for other parties who ultimately do not want to take responsibility. Then you can say: those people are wrong by voting for those people. Or you could say: no, it's very different; we're going to talk to these people because we take the concerns that people have very, very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	It is very special that you say that you want to talk to the people, because this cabinet simply wants to abolish the referendum, which only increases the distrust in politics, because people from their normal position want to talk about policy and indicate when something cannot go on. But the cabinet doesn't want to hear that either. So when it comes to the referendum and wanting to listen to people, this cabinet is actually the only one that embraces listening to people and not really listening to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	You can think very differently about the referendum, but it is not the case that people or politicians who are less in favour of the referendum are not in favour of democracy. This is about the doctrine of direct democracy or representative democracy. Let me speak for myself, because this coalition, too, is of course thought differently. In the end, however, I myself am a politician who believes in representative democracy, in which we here in the House of Representatives make a multitude of arguments and issues, which rarely lend themselves to a yes or no. Here too, a debate is rarely yes or no. Eventually yes, but after a long discussion you have with each other, with representatives of the Dutch population. So I am a strong supporter of representative democracy. That's not that you're for less democracy. It does ensure that the people who hired us are not asked by us every moment: what do you actually think? That's what they hired us for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Wilders, on a point of order, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Well, a point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yes, because it is Mr Asscher's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yeah, but I think Mr. Asscher would be okay if I said one sentence about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	If it's one sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	One sentence, okay? Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	With a few commas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	I just heard Prime Minister Rutte say in a subtle way 'and parties like the PVV who did not want to take their responsibilities'. I thought it shouldn't get much crazier. If there is one party that not only won the elections but would have loved to sit at the negotiating table, then it is the PVV. Who has been the party that kicked democracy, slapped our electorate in the face and said: you have won and you have 20 seats, but we do not allow you to participate? The one who destroyed democracy is you, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	It's wonderful when a party says, "I want to participate in the government." That is indeed what Mr Wilders said, that is correct. Just admit it, he's absolutely right. But then there is the question of what views and what kind of views such a party comes to the table. If a party then puts away entire population groups, in no way is willing to come up with real solutions to today's problems and looks for everything in flat rhetoric, then such a party that says "I want to rule" should not be surprised if then the conclusion is: that party does not want to rule at all, which wants to be rejected above all. In this respect, Mr Wilders is a bit of a woman who really does not want to be loved at all and therefore appears as unattractive as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	How do you know about women?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	And if he finds that a personal attack, Mr President, he is absolutely right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	Sure. Just yes, who says? The whole of the Netherlands does not even know if Mr Rutte has ever had a wife!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yeah, oh, oh, oh, oh. Also true, yes. That they don't know!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	The transition's getting a little big now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	Back to content!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	Actually, I'd like to start with something positive. I would like to congratulate Mr Rutte. He's made a coalition agreement. It's called Trust in the future. That's an achievement. We've seen that. It is remarkable that he is the only one who has confidence in it and wants to carry it out. All the other negotiators are going to stand by and watch him make this building a reality. Now for the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	Do not respond to Mr Pechtold, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	Not responding to Pechtold is the advice. I understand. Mr President, the question, because there is indeed an ideological choice in the coalition agreement that is not necessary. The reduction in the burden on shareholders, the reduction in the tax on profits, is much greater than even was in the VVD election programme. The size of the present, which, by the way, does not provide a job according to the calculations, is enormous before Mr Rutte makes that argument. On the other hand, we all pay for it. Indeed, in the daily groceries, but also the people in the neighborhood care are going to pay for that. In that respect, I found it very false to start talking about scrapings, while the only scraping session is that 100 million, in this good time, when it is not necessary, is being cut back on that district nurse. Then you shouldn't say: they don't want to work there because of the bureaucracy. Yeah, but that's because there aren't enough. Those women, mostly, bike from hot to her to patients. Most elderly people live at home and depend on it. You choose, Mr Rutte, to cut back on that. You choose to cut down on people with disabilities, on people who are much more vulnerable. If you have to, you must have a very good reason. The reason can't be someone who's laughing in a boardroom because he's getting this gift from this coalition. We've been waiting for the coalition agreement. It's there: 56 stitched sheets. The question is this. Is there anything you can change? Is there any way to talk about an improvement? Is there anything to talk about, just for that neighborhood nurse, for example, removing the 100 million? We would like to invest more in it. We have that in our election programme. Money can't be the problem here, so it's about political will. It is a question to the leader of the VVD: no easy talk about scrapings and bureaucracy, money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have to answer a few of the questions that are contained in Mr Asscher's speech. Firstly, the answer to his final question is, of course, yes. This cabinet starts the discussion, not only with its own political groups, but with the entire House of Representatives. If there are good ideas, we will try to come to an agreement. So, of course, the answer is: yes, we are open to good ideas and good discussions. Then there are two false assumptions in Mr Asscher's speech which I would like to correct. First of all, the VAT increase. Let me get that for you. He didn't call her direct, but indirectly he did. This increase in VAT goes all the way back to income tax and there is much more going on to reduce income tax. Businesses have to deal with the abolition of dividend tax and a reduction in corporate tax. But on the other hand, the companies in the Netherlands will have a lot to do with the greening in the coming years. This is also going to cost companies a lot of money in terms of environmental and climate costs to make the Netherlands fit with Paris in the coming years and to ensure that we are also a country where innovation is taking off due to climate change and all the innovative power needed to do so. This costs the companies money, and that also goes back to a reduction in taxes. It is therefore not the case that this coalition gives net very substantial relief to business. That is also apparent from the credit transfers. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	This isn't right. It is not the case that this shareholder, that Chinese, American or Russian investor, who receives this EUR 1.4 billion gift from Mr Rutte, suffers from these greening measures. That's not true. It's not like they're gonna pay for the groceries. No, that's what ordinary families are gonna pay for. They see that everything is getting more expensive. We know that this is harder on low incomes. And it goes to the only group that isn't pathetic at all: shareholders, big investors and hedge funds. So it's a political choice. Those gifts were handed out. That cork doesn't go back on the champagne bottle that popped there, but then you also have to live up to what was said before. It's not about theoretical good ideas. It is now a very concrete suggestion, which is important, because there is real concern in the district nurse that 100 million is being removed from it. Fortunately, there is money for nursing home care, but most elderly people live at home and depend on community care. Then we should not say that we want to talk about this in general. I have a concrete proposal. I have cover for that, too, if that's the follow-up question. The penalty has been adjusted after printing the coalition agreement. This affects people very directly: elderly people who depend on community care and the district nurses themselves. Let us delete the 100 million today, rather than keep a whole story about business and so on. No, if there's a group that needs it, they're elderly, benefit recipients and district nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	What Mr Asscher is doing here is combining things. I understand that rhetorically, but it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	Combining things with each other is our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	Sure, if they knock. Just, let me explain why it's really wrong. What we are doing with the new cabinet is very much committed to realising the climate transition in the Netherlands in the coming years. That requires a lot of innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	This is combining things; I was talking about the neighborhood nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	Let me finish this. I'm going to try to reply to you. In the end, the conclusion will be that we will have to discuss with each other in the near future what plans can be improved with the support of the opposition. We are, of course, open to that, so I will answer that general question with yes. But there is an argument under which I sincerely disagree. What we are doing is also making industry pay heavily for the necessary greening. Business is going to notice a lot of that. Next, as we emerge from the crisis and need additional jobs, we want it to remain attractive for business to undertake in the Netherlands. How do you do that? By returning these many greening measures to the same business. On balance, there is even a small burden increase for business. What's that for? Mr Asscher is talking about Chinese, or I do not know exactly what he said, but the point is that we want more headquarters in the Netherlands. We want to bring more solid companies to the Netherlands. We want good companies to stay in the Netherlands. These are small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large companies. These large companies, too, create many jobs in the subcontracting industry: small and medium-sized enterprises. In the end, we do not make the money here in the Chamber; Mr Asscher knows that, I know that. We don't make the money as a government. Ultimately, tax revenues come because people in business take risks, succeed in doing so and make profits. As a result, we can keep this beautiful country very prosperous. This cabinet wants to ensure that these jobs remain in the future. That's what we do. I'm just trying to detox your combination of Chinese and I don't know what. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	The conclusion is very clear: 4.5 billion is given to large companies and shareholders. That's a political choice. This choice is paid for at a time of budget surpluses by district nurses and through daily groceries. Then you can't run away with the general story that's needed for the jobs, because it doesn't get a job. It does not provide a job in the calculations that the cabinet itself has sent in. So it's a political choice. I find it hard to explain that after so many years of crisis, which we have all felt, now that there is finally room, you do not invest in what is really important for society, such as a nice home, good care for everyone and a steady job, but invests in abstract headquarters, boardrooms and foreign investors. That is a political choice that the VVD must explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	This is where we have to keep telling each other the whole story. The whole story is: yes, it is true that taxes are going down in business. But if you want to tell the whole story, you have to show that there are also very big burdens in other areas, because business also has to pay the price of making our country greener in the coming years. That's okay. Business understands that, but then it also makes sense to reduce the burden in other places. That way, you're gonna make sure those jobs stay here. At the same time, we are also going to do this in the coalition agreement to make withholding taxes on the tax benefits for letterboxes, e.g. for wrong types of trust firms. So we are actually going to make sure that in the coming years we have the good kind of jobs that you want to have here from serious companies, like once large companies here, as proud medium-sized companies have arisen, many smaller companies have emerged here, going on. That is why we want to get rid of the wrong kind of entrepreneurship, such as letterboxes, for example. So that's where we actually make choices. On balance, we are not giving 4.5 billion back; on balance, there is still a small increase in the burden on business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	This new cabinet and Mr. Rutte choose to make groceries more expensive, museum visits, books, newspapers, like everyday life. On the other hand, taxes on business are indeed being reduced sharply. Then Mr Rutte arrives with: there is also greening in those taxes and you have to give that back. 800 million, Madam President, 800 million will be greening taxes for large companies. And 4.5 billion will be returned in the form of lower corporation tax and the total removal of dividend tax. I actually have a very simple question. Why does the cabinet choose, at this time, that we have money left, to increase VAT for citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	If that were to be the case, I would immediately agree, as I said, with the initiative I saw yesterday's three left-wing colleagues take. But that's not the story. Because the story is that we increase that VAT and then give it back in full in lower income tax. And on top of that, income tax goes down even further. In fact, we are able to increase the purchasing power of the people in their pockets in the coming years. In addition, there is a shift from consumption to income, so a shift from what you buy in the store to actually lowering income tax, one that comes directly from the GroenLinks textbook. So I had at least expected Mr Klaver to be a little more enthusiastic on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	After having sat at the table with each other for so long, I had estimated that Mr Rutte had known me better. Because when he talks about consumers, which I find very special for a VVD, GroenLinks never meant to read less museum visits or less books or buy less fruit and vegetables. That has nothing to do with making your economy more sustainable. Now that this cabinet says it's for ordinary people and after the huge economic crisis to make sure that everyone benefits, you have to make choices in scarce; that's the big question. Then a choice made by this cabinet is to increase VAT for ordinary people and at the same time to give huge Vpb discounts and to remove the dividend tax altogether. This is a tax that does not even benefit Dutch companies, but foreign companies. And when I look at the bottom of all your plans, it doesn't even create additional jobs. That's why I don't understand why, when you say you're here as a cabinet for the common Dutchman, for all those people who worked so hard in the crisis to get this country back on top, you make their messages more expensive. The Prime Minister's argument is not credible on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yes, Mr Klaver is now expanding it enormously, including to the companies. But that's not right. What we do...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	It's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	... is indeed increasing VAT. That's right. And if that were to be the case, I have said it a few times, and I understand the criticism. But what is against, now that we are coming out of the crisis, now that we are able to reduce the burden on the Netherlands in any case, making that reduction even greater by adding a shift between tax on consumption and tax on labour? That is a movement that all economists in the Netherlands, all experts have been saying for years: it would be sensible, that would be good for the economy. You can also see that this cabinet is further stimulating economic growth. That's what the Central Planning Office showed us. Economic growth will continue to increase as a result of this cabinet. So that policy is wise. Would you leave it at a burden increase, yes, that might still be explainable in a crisis, but we don't. It ultimately leads to a reduction of charges, even a much greater reduction than the increase in VAT rates. So I'm really looking for where I've lost Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	I find it rather incredible that you say: yes, just as things are going better, we can actually increase VAT and make the groceries more expensive, because people get lower taxes. There's a total bag of money you have to spend as a new cabinet. That is what this Prime Minister has been talking about, this is what Mark Rutte is talking about: we have to make choices in scarcity. And I note that there is a choice to further reduce labour costs, increase VAT and make shopping more expensive. At the same time, large multinationals are being allocated billions. The Prime Minister then says: we do, because we are also tackling tax avoidance, for example. Oh, yeah, what was it again with the tax avoidance? This is about large multinationals that are actually not contributing enough to all our collective facilities. It is very good that they will, but that is not the idea of: we take it with one hand and we return it with the other hand to the big multinationals. This cabinet is no longer creating jobs. This cabinet makes people's groceries more expensive. This way, you're not a cabinet for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	What we are doing is allowing Gert-Jan Segers' favourite band to return to Ireland. We want to get rid of that type of mailbox bv's. We do want to have and get good quality jobs in the Netherlands. At the moment, there are enormous opportunities, also in the world, because of the great developments in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, to get a lot of extra jobs in the Netherlands and to maintain a lot of good jobs in the Netherlands. That is very good for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can deliver to all those companies and all those offices. Those are choices we make. On balance, you can see that the business community in the Netherlands, the free sector, has nothing to do with relief but a small burden increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	This is exactly the difference between the VVD and GroenLinks. They want to get headquarters to the Netherlands, they want to bet on the big multinationals. That VAT increase is going to hit hairdressers, hit the grocery store, hit all those self-employed people, like the bike makers. That's exactly what we shouldn't want. Employment in the Netherlands comes from small and medium-sized enterprises, which is severely affected by this measure. So stop looking at that big business, which the VVD always does. They want to get all those beautiful banks from London to Amsterdam and focus on Dutch companies that really add something to our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	This would be true if it remained with the VAT increase. Then my hairdresser could be right to say, "What are you doing?" But then we make sure it goes all the way back to the people's wallet. On top of that, there is a lot more load relief that ends up in the people's wallet. That in itself is very good for our small and medium-sized enterprises. So on balance, people have more to spend. The increase in purchasing power is also reflected in the increase in VAT. It's just all in there. And the purchasing power will continue to greatly improve over the next few years. For a very average family with 6%. Those are huge increases in purchasing power. This will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	Madam President. I will resist the temptation to pour my own input into the form of an interruption. I would like to congratulate Mr Rutte on having managed to reach an ambitious government agreement with very different parties. Compliments for that. An important question for this debate, which has just been asked by Mr Asscher, is what scope remains for change. There have just been two points that many ordinary Dutch people, whom Mr Rutte talks about, have difficulty with. That's the payoff and the question of whether enough money goes to the people who don't go to a nursing home, but want to get care at home. What room is there for change on such points if constructive proposals are put forward in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	I do not want to go into specific dossiers now. This is the debate for the appointment of a formatter. We will have the debate on the government statement in two weeks' time. That seems to me to be much more the place to go into this detail. I am therefore going to answer the question more generally. That general answer is yes. Alexander Pechtold said in the run-up to this cabinet that this should be a cabinet that links left and right, that seeks contact with other parties and that, if good ideas live with other parties, it will try to incorporate them into its own policies. That is also politically attractive, because then we will have more support than the 76 seats. I am not going to look at specific dossiers. This seems to me to be more in line with the government statement and perhaps much more in future when we talk about the concrete plans that the cabinet is going to submit. All this will have to be done first. It is still a coalition agreement and not a legal text. All this has yet to be translated into concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	I couldn't agree more. That was not the point of my question either. I would like to hear a little more about subjects that have sometimes been discussed for a long time. As far as the penalty is concerned, you see a footnote in the final report that was made 30 years at the last time of 20 years. Are there not a lot of points that Mr Rutte also says: we have been dealing with four parties for so long, there is actually no music in that anymore? Are those parts of the agreement still negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	I don't want to go through the 60 pages and then give my assessment. I am also one of the four constituent parties of this coalition. I will not give my assessment from my political point of view where I can or cannot do so. I believe that the constructive response to this debate is that a coalition is emerging here that realizes that there is more wisdom than there is only among the coalition parties, that there is also wisdom among other parties, and that you should always seek the debate with other parties to see how you can improve proposals. We will work on that over the next few months and years. I think I've built up some reputation in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	I am glad that Mr Rutte says that he also wants to listen to the concerns of the opposition parties. One of my major concerns is the following, and I hope that Mr Rutte will think with me. He has to understand that someone who orders a serving of oysters in a restaurant, or someone who gets a full shopping basket from Albert Heijn, is relatively less affected by that VAT increase than the people who have to do their dirty shopping at the Lidl and the Aldi?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's why we're reducing income tax very much and we're giving it all back. That's a choice we make. It is a shift from consumption to labour. And not only that; there is going to be a lot more relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	I hope that you will give me the floor, Madam President, and that I can also respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	I hope I can say that there is of course also a large group that has no income from work, but in the past has tried to have a nice older day with AOW and building up a small pension. These are the people who are most affected by your measures, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	This is why this cabinet chooses to continue to link the AOW to wages, other than 50PLUS, which only wants to link it to prices. This means that for a married AOW'er the difference between this incoming cabinet and 50PLUS is €350 per year. That's what they have with us more than they do with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	Just a correction...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	From now on, you should really call your party 50 MIN, because 50PLUS is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	A correction: 50PLUS does not just link the AOW to the prices, as you say. That's not true. That little myth has been brought into the world. Some people have been very good at that. But it's not true. It's not in our election program. We are absolutely not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	Then I am completely lost, because I really heard you say that you were going to link the AOW to the prices and not pay any more. That makes a real $350 difference in four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Klaver, you've just been!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	Yes, sorry, I have a brief question for Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	A very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	Yeah, it's a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	I'm just gonna stand here all day. I'll have a cup of coffee with you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm looking forward to it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr Kuzu was actually next, unless he wants you to go first. I see he's okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	It's a really short question. Mr Rutte spoke just now about the purchasing power plates. He said the VAT increase is just in there. Well, inflation is in it, and VAT is included in it. But to really get a good idea of what this means for households, I would think it would be a very good idea if the Nibud were to look at that too. I was wondering if Mr Rutte is prepared to ask the Nibud that question, if he is so sure how good this cabinet is for a family.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	I do not think I can say yes to that now, because I am here as the VVD leader. That is a question to the Chamber. If the Chamber wants to ask that out, that's fine. But I'm not standing here in front of the cabinet, so I can't answer that formally right now. If Mr Klaver from the Chamber wants to take the initiative to ask the Nibud that question, I support it. But I can't promise that from the government right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	I understand the confusion, but you stand there as chairman of the group, and that is how I ask for it. Could you, as group chairman of the VVD, support such a request?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think that would be very good, but then the Chamber will have to make that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr Asscher, you too have just been!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	I want to finish that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr President, I too am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. Mr Rutte talks here all the time in abstracto. He says: yes, then those parties must come together and we must then talk about it once. We're all here together now. Mr. Rutte says you shouldn't combine things. That's what we do here. We are debating the coalition agreement. Jesse Klaver asks: Shall we let the Nibud take a look at it? You say that's a good idea. So we've almost got a majority of the Chamber. There is nothing to be said and done; we can make agreements here today in this House of Democracy about what we want. That is the case with the Nibud calculation, and also with the question of Kees van der Staaij. His question was not at all: can I have money today? He asked, "Are you prepared to cancel the 100 million-dollar cut in community nursing in exchange for a little less gift when it comes to dividend tax?" That is a specific question, not a general one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	I answered that question three times. I think we'll be repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	You've answered it zero times. Is it yes or is it no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	I answered it three times. First of all, I told Mr Asscher that the facts were wrong. Secondly, he combines things that cannot be combined. It just doesn't make sense what he's saying. I said: yes, the cabinet is open to change in a general sense. Let us have the debate on the content, and wise. Because what he's combining now is rhetorically all very nice, but it just doesn't add up. That's really a bullshit story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u103	The documents that are being discussed today and which Mr Rutte has sent to us say: 100 million cuts in community nursing. That's how concrete it is. It's that easy. He can easily answer my question with no, but he owes that clarity to us and behind that also to the district nurses who are worried. Is he willing to cooperate on behalf of the VVD in removing the austerity on district nurses? It's as simple as that: 100 million in a time of abundance. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u104	The new cabinet will continue the policy pursued by the previous cabinet with the Labour Party, namely to conclude agreements with the concern to control the increase in costs. That's where no less money goes, but we're keeping the cost increase under control. That's what we're gonna do in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u105	There's less money going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u106	Finally, because there are other people who would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u107	Apologies to my fellow Members, but the question is as simple as I ask him: is Mark Rutte prepared on behalf of the VVD to invest the 100 million we wanted; we wanted to cut down on the district nurses in good time at the expense of the elderly and at the expense of workers who are really out of business for those older patients, to delete today in exchange for a little less gift to the shareholders? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr Asscher has said this a few times. He now combines things from the coalition agreement that cannot be combined. The choice presented here by Mr Asscher is not the choice made by the coalition. This is simply not right. That is why I say to him: these plans are all going to be worked out and we will continue whatever we have done with the Labour Party in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u109	This plan should not be worked out. This shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u110	We will continue to do what we did in the previous period: to conclude major agreements with care to ensure that we in the Netherlands, where we spend 90 billion on healthcare and have a fantastic health care that we also want to preserve for the future, somehow keep that cost increase under control, in a sensible way, without at the expense of the people, because of course we do not want that at all. Mr Asscher does not want that, and this coalition does not want that. You're not going to cut down on the most vulnerable, but he's now combining things that don't add up. But his general question I understand: is this coalition open to good ideas from the Chamber? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u111	I note that you are not only giving me an answer, but also those local nurses. I think that's disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u112	That is simply not true, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u113	I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u114	A point of order, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u115	Oh, you have a point of order. I actually wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr Roemer has asked me nicely. I agree with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u117	You stand there and give everyone permission, but I thought that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u118	Can I have some coffee then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u120	I have a point of order. Mr Asscher just suggested that you ask the Nibud to carry out an investigation and send it to the Chamber for the debate in two weeks' time. I believe that we do not have to wait and we do not have to make any motions for it. If the VVD is for that too, there is simply a majority for that. My point of order is therefore to make that request through you so that it can go to the Nibud as soon as possible. Then the Nibud can get to work right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u121	I don't know if there's any objection to this. I'll look at Mr. Rutte first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u122	I'm not standing here as prime minister. So I can't order the Nibud here. I'm sorry. We're really gonna have to do that as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u123	It will be a procedural point of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u124	For the sake of clarity, I would therefore ask a majority of the Chamber to make the request to the Nibud through the President and to send that inquiry to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u125	This surprises me, because I think it makes all these calculations automatically, every time we come up with plans. So I'm assuming the Nibud will come up with that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u126	I see no one has any objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u127	This is standard, isn't it? Mr Roemer is doing something really cool right now, but it's standard for Nibud to make those calculations. He's discovered something very exciting, he thinks, but I think this is standard and we don't even have to ask. But fine, then we'll ask again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u128	Good. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Kuzu; it has been there for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yeah, I've been standing here for a while. Let's talk about Rutte's reputation. All valid arguments now coming from the opposition are portrayed as "it doesn't add up," but when we look at Rutte's reputation, we know him as Prime Minister a little longer than today, of course, for seven years. In the first Rutte cabinet, together with the CDA and with the support of Wilders, he carried out a lot of bullying measures for people with a migrant background. In the second Rutte cabinet he said "pleer op" to a group of Dutch. He said, "Mo, fight in." That doesn't reflect inclusivity. I wondered how Mr Rutte dealt with the issue of inclusiveness in the Rutte III cabinet and whether he wanted to be the prime minister of all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u131	I've been who I am for 50 years. We live in a country that is open to people who want to make a positive contribution here and who also want to know what kind of country we are and what our basic values are. I mentioned them: the equality of men, women, gay, straight, white and black and our democratic rule of law. We are open to that, and I think that is a great value. I also think it is good and important that we are prepared to take our part in accommodating people who are really on the run from war and violence. But then we must also be tough on people who are not eligible for it. And we need to be absolutely clear to people who want to harm our democratic rule of law, who, for example, try to block freedom of expression and freedom of the press. That's what I've been thinking for 50 years. We live in a country where we can, but where we must also be clear with each other. That's what this coalition's gonna want. You can see that in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u132	I don't see that all over again. I can see that a number of measures are being taken. I do see that there is thought in certain frames when it comes to the issue of inclusiveness. Then we are indeed talking about these kinds of issues. My specific question was as follows. We have heard statements from the Prime Minister from the past. It was about "fuck off," "fuck off," "fuck off," "fuck off" and "mo, fight your ass." The points you make are valid; that is what we stand for. I also find it remarkable that every time we stand here, VVD executives have the tradition of making these kinds of comments. But let's leave it at that. What do you mean by the theme inclusiveness? How are you, as Prime Minister, going to make you the Prime Minister of all the Dutch? Does this include, for example, as I read in the coalition agreement, that future generations must renounce their dual nationality? Those people haven't been born yet. Do you doubt their loyalty right before they're born?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u133	No, not at all. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u134	Are people in the crib not yet sufficiently integrated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u135	No, it certainly isn't. It also has very little to do with loyalty or inclusivity to me. It has to do with the fact that the coalition that is joining finds it important to say: "Yes, there is in a number of cases within the law that the Netherlands has the possibility of dual nationality. We're seeing them right now. At the same time, we find it valuable to allow the next generation to make a choice and make it explicit. We're gonna see if we can do that." That has nothing to do with shutting people out, with exclusivity and with what you just said about "Mo, fight your ass." You talk about frames, but this is framed again. My comment was as follows, and I think you're going to have a baby. They were children who were victims of discrimination. I said to those children, "I think that's one of the most terrible things in our society. As Prime Minister, I support you and will do everything in my power to combat discrimination. We have legislation and hotlines for that. We'll be tough on people who do it, too. But if it happens to you, please, don't sit in a corner and be angry, just fight on. Then you can also become President of the Chamber in this country, or mayor of Rotterdam. That is also possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u136	I'm gonna let the VVD roll out right now. There are indeed good examples. Unfortunately, however, Mr Rutte also knows that a lot of people who can't make it, who do not get those opportunities. That doesn't just have to do with fighting and fighting. This also has to do with all kinds of measures we are taking. We have been implementing measures on awareness for 30 years, but we are not actually taking any measures to actually solve the problem. We have also had a lot of debates on this in the past. I have to say, unfortunately, in view of the coalition agreement, that once again this important issue, which is causing the division of society to grow, is going to be dealt with very little, which probably means that in two, three, four years we will not have made much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u137	The opposite is true. Really, the opposite is true. This coalition has the ambition to offer a wonderful future in this country to all those who make a positive contribution and support our basic values. That is why we want more jobs to be created. That is why we want to be clear in education about what kind of country we are and also to teach young people our history. There's been some laughs about the Wilhelmus, but it's our history and we're proud of that national anthem. So it is also nice that we learn that in education with each other and that we ask young people to go to the Rijksmuseum. Those are very important things, precisely to ensure that young people can get their place in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u138	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u139	The colonial past and the past of slavery are also our history...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u140	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u141	... but last week the VVD voted against a proposal to formally apologize. But actually, the circle is now complete. I started my interruption with: Rutte has a reputation. To that reputation I can add that every point with which the opposition comes is dismissed with "it does not add up." It's true. I'd like to try again with you in two, three or maybe four years, but we won't have made much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mrs Thieme, you too must ask a short question, because you have already been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u143	Informateur Zalm has been instructed to look at an agreement for which there is as much support in the Chamber as possible. However, as regards the general increase in VAT, we can conclude that there is no support for that measure, except for the coalition parties. I would very much like to know from Mr Rutte how he looks at that. He and his three partners are actually the only ones in favour of this general increase in VAT, while the task was to write an agreement that was widely supported in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u144	It is even worse, because I think 150 Members of Parliament would be opposed to the increase in VAT if that were to be the case. Then we're all against it. If you come out of a crisis, you're not gonna raise VAT and leave it at that. What we are doing is giving it all back to people who work, on top of the further relief that workers receive. I would like to propose to Mrs Thieme that this debate be held in the near future. I am convinced that the Netherlands will eventually support this and will say: okay, we'll pay a little more for the groceries, but we'll get a lot more to spend in our wallet. This is not only because of the reduction but also because of the further reduction in charges. That's the story people will accept, I think. I noticed that last night when I was at a meeting in the country, and that was a public meeting, not just with VVDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u145	At the moment it is a story that is not believed by the opposition parties, so we are going to debate it later. Mr Rutte also said that he and the coalition parties are open to looking at adjustments to the coalition agreement. Isn't it a huge missed opportunity if you don't use the general VAT increase to differentiate? For sustainable and healthy products, such as fruit and vegetables, you can propose a VAT reduction. For what is unsustainable, such as meat and dairy, we can actually increase VAT. Then you get positive behavior changes in people. Then you're in the middle of hazing. Excuse me, just making society greener. This cabinet is hazing, which is why I was a little confused. So we make society greener and much fairer, because then you know what you can choose as a consumer. Healthy products become cheaper, unhealthy products become more expensive. Is Mr Rutte open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u146	Not my party. As a VVD, we are not in favour of having this type of behavioral effects, which can also be called into question by means of the tax system. That is a political view, which the VVD has vis-à-vis the Party for Animals. These are different political views. But to Mrs Thieme's general question whether this coalition is open to making a link between the left and the right to see whether the plans put forward on paper can be improved, the answer in general is yes. That debate must be conducted by subject on the basis of all the facts. That's exactly what we're doing. If the frame is "VAT goes up, point," then so am I. But the story is that the VAT increase goes all the way back to the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yes, the VAT goes up and the income tax is supposed to go down, but it doesn't go down until 2021. Why wasn't it so late? It is said that it is technically impossible because of the Tax Administration, but also increase VAT later. Why doesn't Mr. Rutte do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u148	We do everything step by step over the next period, so that whatever we bring in also goes back to the citizen. We will indeed do so in very close consultation with the Tax Administration, so that it can all be carried out technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u149	I get it. So that's the meaning of "confidence in the future." It has to be, because it is only in the future that we may get something back from what we have to pay first. Has Mr Rutte forgotten that we have increased higher VAT as a temporary crisis measure? It's still not being lowered. How can Mr. Rutte sell this to his supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr Baudet is really wrong. We had to apply additional taxes in 2012 because of the crisis in order to get the country out of the crisis and prevent us from going into a state financial crisis. This included the increase in the highest VAT rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u151	And now we're out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u152	That's a lot different. What we're doing is giving money back. Now it's possible to give money back. Then it is wise to do so through income tax. Indeed, you could reduce the top rate of VAT or the lowest rate of VAT. You can do anything, but we'll make another choice. We make sure that people get the money back through taxes, through their pay slip, now that there is room to do so. There are the main economic benefits. People can make those choices themselves. Therefore, on balance, there is a very, very, very substantial reduction in the burden of many billions over the next four years; many billions on top of the VAT increase that also goes back. It's a nice story, Mr. Baudet. Back it up!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u153	Ha, ha, but why not in 2021 when Mr Rutte is long and wide in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yeah, now we're gonna get that again. Now I have to say here again that it isn't, because it isn't. I think that's so lame. We're gonna take it one step at a time. We are ensuring that the increase in VAT goes back to the citizen, that we make it all as equal as possible and that it is enforceable for the Tax Administration. Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u155	We're not convinced. I have a second question. Why is there nothing in the coalition agreement about the NPO? He still gets $3 million a day. Why isn't that cut in half? There's about 1 billion a year going to the NPO. For example, make it 500 million and give all people a €30 discount on their own risk in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u156	There's really no billion going to the NPO. That's a lot less. And what do we do in the near future? This cabinet believes it is important to maintain a strong public broadcasting system, also because public broadcasting contributes to our major national events, to the sense of the Orange, the things where we as the Netherlands together enjoy what is happening in the country via television. The NPO should continue to be able to pay attention to major events and matters of major state importance. We also specifically invest in investigative journalism, because it is important that research journalism in the Netherlands is further strengthened in the coming period. We are going to take measures to strengthen regional broadcasting and public broadcasting also at local level. I think that's a nice package. As far as our own risk is concerned, we are taking sensible measures which are also included in the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u157	Finishing on this topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u158	So the Prime Minister thinks it's more important that there are programmes broadcast that no one looks at but that people are left with money by paying less to their care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u159	The great thing about rhetoric is that you can get from a budget of 270 billion a few posts that might not be supported by the whole of the Netherlands and that you can say: if you don't do that anymore, you can do that and you can do that. Look, politics is making choices. Surely you cannot say that we are going to destroy the entire public service broadcasting in the Netherlands in order to reduce its own risk? That's a nonsensical proposition, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u160	Well, I don't know about that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u161	By the way, I have another text. I wanted to run away because I almost forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u162	Yes, because you've been interrupted for almost an hour, but you have almost five minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u163	Yeah, I've been talking for 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u165	But I won't use the full five minutes. Because the advantage of all the interruptions is that of course that was the purpose of the Chamber that I would therefore bring a large part of my text into the context of interruptions. So I'm not going to mention that there is, of course, more than purchasing power. And I'm not going to talk about the importance of making money available for loving care for our elders. I am not going to talk about investing in and training our children. I am not talking about more money to make our streets and neighborhoods safe and therefore keep the Netherlands safe and stable and that we will invest a lot in our roads and our tracks in the coming years. We are going to work to ensure that the next generations still have a good pension in their old age. I leave it undisputed, because of time, that we want to ensure that the following flows of refugees in the Netherlands, too, are properly controlled in the coming years, and that we want this country to be where you can go, if you are really on the run from war and violence. I leave it untouched that we are going to continue to address the integration of people, so that people will make a positive contribution to this society as soon as possible. Finally, I must leave aside the fact that we are going to work hard to create a sustainable society where our children and grandchildren can also grow up healthy. Mr. Chairman. I have already said at the presentation, I see that there is an interruption, but perhaps I should briefly finish this text in the context of time management, that this is an ambitious and balanced agreement. I myself am very excited to work with the new ministerial team and to form a coalition with these four parties. I would like to end here by thanking Mr Zalm, Gerrit Zalm, who has done a very good job over the past few months as an informant. He has made many technical remarks which sometimes had a more substantive character, but which allowed the formation to push in the right direction. I would also like to thank his two predecessors, Herman Tjeenk Willink and Edith Schippers, who worked so hard before that. Now that this formation phase has been completed, this phase of information, I would also like to thank the support. They're very good people. They are currently firewalled so called in good Dutch General Affairs, but I am glad that they all come back to General Affairs at some point and that I can also work with them in that capacity. In the last few months, I've seen them work very hard under blood and sweat to help bring about this coalition agreement. I would also like to thank my colleagues from CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, the group chairmen and the fellow negotiators, with whom we have worked very hard in recent months. I'm glad I'm going to see them a little less now, not because I don't like them, but because that means that we're obviously going to do other things, which is to put this agreement into practice. We're going to work on a new cabinet now. Now that there is such a clear final report by the informant, with a clear opinion, I will, if you will allow me, put forward a motion for the appointment of a reformer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u166	That is indeed in the second term. I thought this was a nice conclusion, but Mr Asscher would like to ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u167	I read that agreements have been made on the abortion pill, but that they have been kept out of the government agreement. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u168	No, that doesn't ring a bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u169	So no agreements have been made on other subjects, such as the abortion pill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u170	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u171	Have agreements been made or has there been talk about job vacancies, about filling posts, about such subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u172	No agreement was made on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr Pechtold made a point in the Chamber, but the citizens did not hear it, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u174	If Mr Asscher wants to apply to a particular post, as an experienced politician, we will look favourably at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u175	I want to use this place for years to come, but the question is very serious. In the press it appeared that agreements have been made, which were attributed to the Christian Union, about the failure to allow the package or the failure of the general practitioner to provide the abortion pill. This agreement would have been deliberately made outside the coalition agreement. I am pleased with the answer, because I think it is important to hear very clearly here from Mark Rutte that there are no other appointments, secret appointments or side letters: this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u176	The agreement that has been made is also part of the coalition agreement, namely that we will always discuss these delicate and socially sensitive issues along three lines of discussion, as a coalition and with the Chamber. Where's medical science? What is the state of the political debate about it? What input has been provided by society? On the basis of these three prisms, as we have mentioned them, we will always discuss these difficult delicate subjects. I would point out to the Chamber that in the past, sensitive discussions on abortion, euthanasia and gay marriage have never been overnight. They've always taken a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u177	I also think that this is an honest approach. So that means here's what this is about. If the Chamber is ready to allow, for example, modern multiparenthood, a subject that has already been studied very much, there is no agreement that this cabinet will not allow it to do so or that no vote will be taken on it. That deal doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u178	There are, however, agreements in the coalition agreement about parenthood. They go beyond what Mr Asscher is suggesting. He was just asking about some medical-ethical topics. On this point, we agreed that each time, on the basis of the three prisms, the three lines of discussion in the coalition agreement, we would hold the debate as a coalition and then also with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u180	Madam President. 209 days, seven months, it's lasted. That is indeed how long it takes to form a cabinet without the second party of the Netherlands. That's how long it takes to put democracy aside, move aside, and ignore the election results. That's how long it takes to give the 1.5 million Dutch people who voted for the PVV a slap in the face and a kick. Mr. Chairman. Eliminating the PVV and its nearly 1.5 million voters is the main reason that this formation has lasted for so long. But the time of drinking wine and watching Netflix in the office is finally over for the VVD room members. From today on, they can ruffle for a new great leader. Because it is finally there: the government agreement of the Pechtold I cabinet. That name says everything: a kind of gender-neutral cabinet, without balls, without female charm, just like Mr Pechtold. A cabinet with no soul and no vision, with only one motto: cheating on Dutch people. It's pure folklore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u181	"The feminine charms..." I had to think straight away of the problem that occurred to me this week, looking at Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet, but especially to you, Mr Wilders, who is a bit longer at the hairdresser: go quickly, go for that last rinsing-ink, because it can only improve your female charms. And I'm so glad you've taken a much milder tone in your interruptions so far. I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u182	Somewhere I think that's a joke, but I'm going on with my speech. I told you before: a cabinet without a soul and without vision, with only one motto, cheating on the Netherlands, mocking the people. People have paid for the crisis in recent years. They have been overwhelmed with austerity and burdens, and now they want nothing more than to benefit significantly from economic growth. They're being shipped off, Madam President. Shipped with a small percentage per year of additional purchasing power, after years of stagnation and decline. Higher VAT, lower mortgage interest deduction, abolishing the Wet Hillen, bed, bath and bread for illegal immigrants, a flight tax, higher tobacco taxes, the children's pardon that continues to exist, the energy consumption that is being taxed more heavily, more refugees who will be invited and even more money for development aid in Africa, but cut our neighbourhood care and hospital care. Those are Rutte III's choices. This coalition agreement is even worse than that of the previous cabinet. No cut in rent, no cut in risk, no cut in health care or lower energy costs. Nothing is true of all those people who are watching television at home and who have paid for the crisis in the past. The tax reductions that are proposed are largely a cigar from your own box, because what good is a reduction in income tax if you have to pay extra VAT? What's the use of a lower private house credit if the mortgage interest credit goes down? What good is a lower electricity bill if the total energy bill goes up sharply? Madam President. It's a big talk trick. It's like someone comes to the front door and brings you free packages with a smooth chat while in the meantime half of it is stolen from your house through the back door. So the Rutte method. What a pacifier, what a deception, what a total failure Rutte III is already before they have begun. Anyone who thinks that fewer immigrants and fewer asylum seekers are coming to the Netherlands is also wrong. Our borders simply remain wide open. Europe is full of jihadists and returned Syrians. They can all cross our border uncontrolledly, into the Netherlands. All of Africa will soon know that it is always a price in the Netherlands. Either you get a residence permit, or you get an illegal bed, bath and bread, or you are eligible for a pardon scheme, which simply continues to exist. Always checkout. It's almost as attractive as that. And then, Madam President, the word Islam. The word "islam" does not occur once in the entire coalition agreement. You'll hear it right: not once. The greatest threat of the whole West is ignored, shoved under the carpet, muffled away. With these four gentlemen no one can trust in the future. That is a danger to the Netherlands. Madam President. The new Rutte III cabinet therefore refuses to do what is necessary to safeguard the future of our country. It refuses to give people in the Netherlands real relief without adding burdens at the same time. It is another cabinet that thinks about everything and everyone, except the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u183	It is true that the word "islam" does not appear in it. The word "hate preacher" is mentioned, so I would like to say to Mr Wilders: beware.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u184	Well, it's nice to have you mentioned in the play. Mr. Chairman. My advice to the four parties: don't get started, because this isn't gonna work. A large part of the Netherlands already has no faith in you. Don't start, and if you do, the PVV as the largest opposition party will fight the policy to fire and sword every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u185	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u186	Madam President. It is already over six months since the Netherlands went to the polls, 15 March. I think there have been few who woke up on 16 March thinking that a new cabinet would soon be formed. I even think there were people who thought it couldn't be done at all. But it worked. For months there have been negotiations between four parties and last week we have been able to present a coalition agreement. Four parties with totally different views started with a strong joint ambition. And that's what worked. An agreement with the support of the groups of VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union. I have to admit that in those days I have had to think about the Lotto on difficult days: he can just fall. But it didn't happen, the negotiations were successful. Thanks to the fellow negotiators but also thanks to informant Gerrit Zalm. Without his determined and convincing way of presiding as an informant, this coalition agreement would have never been so simple. The same applies to the officials and staff who have been involved and many others who have supported and assisted the negotiators in this process. Without their intensive contribution, it would not have been possible to reach an agreement. If I may mention a point in which I disagree with Mark Rutte's contribution earlier, that is that he would like the officials to return to General Affairs soon. I'd say we'd rather keep them in the Chamber. I have said it before: I am proud of the result achieved and, once the government declaration has been made, we will go much deeper into what has been agreed. Now it is mainly about marking the end of the phase of the information and moving on to the next phase, the formation. 'Cause we're not there yet. It is important for the CDA that this coalition agreement will be carried out by a strong management team. That will be worked on in the coming weeks. That is why I shall be supporting the motion that will be tabled by the VVD, and it is important that it be even more specific than the previous one, because if, as with Mr Zalm, only Mr Rutte, it could suddenly be that another colleague from the Second Chamber will act as a formattor. But when a motion is tabled asking for Mr Mark Rutte to be appointed as a formatter, the CDA will wholeheartedly support it in the second term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u187	I thank Mr Buma. Mr Asscher has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr President, thank you. I understand that Mr Buma intends to keep a little distance from the cabinet and at least stay in our midst in the Chamber. Does that also mean that he is prepared to improve the proposals as they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u189	Let me be very precise about that. That is a fair question and I must say that, in my view, a cabinet with 76 seats for support will always have to remain in dialogue with the opposition. Of course, we have concluded the coalition agreement. So if we talk, that will be with the four principles of the coalition agreement, but there is a great deal in this coalition agreement that needs to be worked out and perhaps improved. I'd love to. I listened very carefully to Mr Asscher this week. That's how he said: what we don't like is what I respect, but that's what we're against. But I also heard him say: what we like, we can support. I hear some in this Chamber saying: do not let the whole cabinet begin. But if it is true that we can talk to the opposition for the next four years and we can perhaps improve what you want better, then that will not always be possible. I think that the House of Representatives can also play a very important role for the Netherlands. And that includes your call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's convenient. We're talking here. So this is a moment, actually the first moment that you as a coalition are talking to the opposition in the making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u192	Everyone's here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u193	With us, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u194	Everyone's here with us, mostly. We can just talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u195	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u196	No one signed out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u197	You'd almost say it should be a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u198	Exactly. So did I. Where you speak of 'we must talk about it in the future, because there will be a coalition agreement'... I've gotten a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yeah, no, but what I mean is, let's keep it exactly... I believe that there will be a great deal of legislation in the coming period; there will be a lot of things going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u200	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u201	The way in which you indicate that you are looking at the cabinet is one where, I hope, you do not say "go home again and ask the electorate again" from day one, but one where you say "I recognize something of that attitude, because I think that the attitude that an opposition should have "where we can adapt things we do" with all the independence that an opposition party should have. We must be open to that. And I say right away: because the four of us are in a coalition, that's always...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u202	Tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u203	Maybe tricky, but at the same time something that needs to be done with four. Because it's for me, as a CDA'er: there's all sorts of things in it that I might not have invented as a CDA'er because it wasn't in my election program, but I'll just as well defend it to fire and sword and call on the Cabinet to do it all. Where it can be better and where it can be completed, I even hope for cooperation. And I also speak to the other Members of this House, Mr President, I did not see it in the opening with some Members of this House to see what is good and what we can do together. That could also be a value from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u204	I like the sound of this. So if that's how we're gonna work together, I look forward to it. Let us do one thing today as a first test or as a first move. It is a very simple question, and I think Mr Buma did not want it either. There's a $100 million cut on the neighborhood nurses. That leads to great worries there. You also know that the workload there is very high and that people get overwhelmed, while the work they do is very important. I would like to say that I understand that it has to take a break with those four parties, which I also respect if we can say today that at least this cut is not going to happen. Could we agree to that? As far as I'm concerned, that would really be a sign of an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u205	If that conversation is together, I believe that the opposition must also have a starting position that is right. In my view, you are talking about the main agreement that is going to be concluded to curb the costs of care that are going to increase by EUR 11 billion and to prevent further increases. That is no different from what you did with your cabinet including the neighbourhood care for 2018. So you can now speak very big words to this coalition, but Mr Asscher, who will soon be chairman of the PvdA, has just done exactly this last year. We could, because it turned out that at the end of the year money was left in that sector. It could have been. It's not spacious, but there was money left. So you can now start in very big words about 100 million cuts, the reality is that it is about curbing the rise in healthcare costs. If that's possible, the better. If it doesn't work, it doesn't. But one thing: it is exactly what the speaker has been doing over the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u206	Very typical, hey: it seems as if a hand is coming out, but instead there will be a tap and a you-bowl. I'm suggesting something. I don't use big words at all. Yeah, big words for the neighborhood nurses, because that's what it's important for. In my program there was an investment of 300 million in the district nurses. That's money well spent. This will benefit many elderly people and neighbourhood nurses. In your program it is now your program... with the CPB transfer that you deposit with us, there is a cut. I'm not gonna bother you with what you've done last year. What I'm suggesting is this. We are now talking about this coalition agreement, the future. In order to strengthen your words on constructive cooperation, let us change one thing: the 100 million. That's all I'm asking you. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u207	Again, if you want to do it seriously... I want to, because I'm gonna stay in the bench where I'm sitting for the next four years. If you want to do it seriously, the starting position must also be serious. That is not the case with the announcement that there is a 100 million cut in community nursing. Agreements are being reached with the sectors to curb growth in healthcare expenditure, just as you have done over the last four years. Why? Because it's necessary, and what the consequences are. Whether it is possible or not, how it is average, whether it is 100 million in one sector or another? That's gonna have to prove it. So there's no $100 million cut. This is not, therefore, the reversal of a 100 million cut. The only question is: are we going to put our hands together under a broad agreement? I'll say yes to that. And are we going to make sure that the effects of these basic agreements are good? I think that is a common point, and I think that is the joint point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u208	Rounding...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u209	Don't start here: there's 100 million cuts, turn that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u210	...Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u211	That's not true. So I will not react to it in that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u212	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u213	Then seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u214	It already was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u215	I really want to get to the content now. Then you must also stick to the real facts and the texts of the Central Planning Bureau. Main lines agreements are needed to reduce costs. That's right. Now, if you want the neighborhood care to be excluded, you're gonna have to report it. That's $100 million. The Central Planning Bureau writes in the assessment of your documents: this measure leads to a reduction in quality or quantity, for 100 million in home care, for 100 million in mental health care. So that means that you can opt for basic agreements, but if you want to exclude that neighborhood nurse, so it is important, because that is what you have to agree on now, then it costs 100 million. This is a cut that you can scrap. It's in your pieces. If we don't have to take those pieces of yours seriously, you're gonna have to add that, but I'm dead serious. This leads to great concern in that profession. I don't think you want to. Certainly not the elderly who depend on it. Don't bother me with the story: this is abstract, we'll watch. In this way, you give the conditions and now is the time to say: no cuts in community care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u216	I keep saying what I said. In any case, there will be an agreement that will be necessary to curb the rising costs of care. This consultation is carried out with all sectors. What that's gonna look like is gonna come back to the Chamber. Then we'll have to discuss that. I don't think I can do more than that. That's already good, because that's a different attitude, and also the way you look at it, to start working together than some of the others in this Chamber. But I distance myself from the word "sustainment." I'm gonna stand back and let you sort that out right now. But I would like to go along with the idea that we will often encounter each other in the coming years, on points as I myself have experienced for the past four years, where you could still improve things. Because even in Mr Asscher's field, until recently, social affairs and employment, there were things where the coalition started with a number of proposals that have just changed in normal consultation, including with us. I also see that that can be done, but not with big steps, quickly at home. I'm really saying that your position is wrong. I'm sorry. I think that's the attitude I'm asking and getting from you, and you can expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u217	The test of your attitude is whether we will be able to tell each other now when these agreements are being drawn up that we do not want that to lead to a cut in the district nurse. In his words, I hear Mr Buma say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u218	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u219	We will see that and then I will draw my conclusions as to how this 76-seat coalition wants to cooperate with the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u220	I do not mind at all that it is now in the depths about community care, because that is important. It is about the results of these agreements. Again, these agreements were made for 2018 too, so it is as ridiculous as you say: these austerity agreements are not allowed, because you make them yourself. The question is what the effects are and if they can be. We need to work on that together, including what the consequences are for care if you don't make such agreements. You've been working on that for four years, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u221	I'm going to see Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u222	Another point. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mr Buma on the CDA input into the coalition agreement and on the fact that it has been achieved. Of course, you can also see topics coming back that he has made himself strong in election time, also points that have been made laughing about, such as the Wilhelmus or the social internship. I think it's fine that it's in this way, but there was also a moment when I thought: did the CDA actually agree to that? Then you understand that I'm thinking about the point of the weed. I also hear the penalty here, but that is another point. But at least that weed and the fact that it can also be grown with tolerance. I really thought I read the Speld when it said that the CDA had agreed, because Mrs Van Toorenburg was so hopeful. We can talk about this for a long time, but I'd like to present my nightmare now. Could it also be that, if all these plans continue, you will soon be able to fill in your social service by cutting off pot plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u223	Yeah, and what song do you have to sing during that tipping off? That's another question!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u224	Well, then Mr Buma could say: the national anthem. I would say, go on with the national anthem, but save us from that folk weed!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u225	Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u226	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u227	Madam President. Development, however gradual, is the hallmark of a healthy and living rule of law. Development can't be without change. The Chamber made a change in 2012 by taking control of the government-building process itself. Since then, the Chamber has assumed its responsibilities in the formation of a government entirely independently. Changes, new processes, new ways are not only necessary, they are always vulnerable. Experience must be gained. It is only the second time in Dutch parliamentary history that the Chamber itself has taken the lead over the cabinet formation, this time against the background of a much more complex election result. It is for this reason in particular, Mr President, that I would like to begin by thanking you and the Registry for the excellent and preparatory work and the guidance you gave to the formation process from the Chamber. For a moment I was afraid of a relapse, when the formation conversations came to a standstill. Nostalgic former informers began to stir in the press. It would be high time for a visit to the King. But the Chamber held the back straight and the helm is in its hands. D66 is happy and proud of that. I am also very grateful to the three consecutive reformers and the support staff. The formation parties could not have wished for anything better than those appointed by this Chamber. Demissionary Minister Edith Schippers as scout and informant, I am grateful for her dynamic and skilled first move. Minister of State Tjeenk Willink I thank you for his experienced wisdom and passion. Former Minister Gerrit Zalm I thank for the commitment of his spirit and broad expertise, and humour in his time. It is to a significant extent thanks to Mr Zalm's resilient focus that the four parties have emerged with confidence in each other and in the future. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that my group agrees with the recommendations contained in this informant's final report. My group also advises the largest party, as the informant also wrote in his final report, to give a slightly clearer direction to which Rutte may soon become a reformer. Mr. Chairman. With a new ambitious cabinet for all Dutch people, D66 wants to get to work as quickly as possible. The time for connection, renewal and change is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u228	Where was Mr Pechtold when the referendum in this coalition agreement was overturned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u229	It must have been the Stadhouders Room or the Johan de Witthuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u230	What went through him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u231	I felt like Johan de Witt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u232	What does that mean? Which means I felt like Johan de Witt? What does Mr Pechtold mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u233	By which I mean fighting to the end for your principles and your ideals. That also means that I will also answer your question seriously and look at the possibilities of involving the Dutch, all the Dutch, with us, with politics. Just now there was a discussion about who the ordinary Dutch are. Well, I get the feeling sometimes: everyone outside this room. There are many ways to involve people. My party's been working on that for 50 years, and we haven't always found friends on our way. We have tried to organise a corrective referendum. Before that, we tried to get the enthusiasm for this through an advisory referendum. There's been two of them now. We've learned from that. We've been looking at what works and what doesn't. We have seen that the legislative processes sometimes, while forming, became more complicated, more confused. All this has led to the D66 election programme saying: not in this way; also find other ways of democracy. I have just been the only one to give a detailed consideration to the process in this Chamber which has now been a success for the second time, although it has taken a while. I think that is a democratic innovation. I also very much hope that the way in which the mayors are appointed will be covered in the near future. But more importantly, Mr. Baudet, D66 is also a party that, when it comes to education, gives students, students and parents the opportunity to influence the way they are taught. In the pension funds, only trade unions and employers were in charge in the past. We want to ensure that the people themselves, the participants, also have influence. That's democracy. That's what I'm fighting for. And I renew every day for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u234	Mr Pechtold takes part in the debate and takes part in the decision. The people are being deprived of their power to decide and may get all kinds of collusion in return. Who do you think you're kidding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u235	You're still confused, but other people understand perfectly, as it turns out the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u236	I see Mrs Thieme and Mr Asscher at the interrupting microphone, but I don't know who was first. I give the floor to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Asscher. We heard great words from Mr Pechtold during the presentation of the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement would be the most ambitious climate agreement for the Netherlands. We were really going to do something about the climate right now. At first, of course, my heart jumped up. I thought, "Oh, this is so nice." Then I went to look at the measures. These are all measures which may be discussed after Mr Pechtold's reign. Coal plants may close in 2030; it depends on the time frame that coal plants themselves are allowed to set. The train tickets are getting more expensive. So people are just being chased back into their cars. The only thing Mr Pechtold is doing is literally sweeping the CO emissions that exist under the carpet. He wants to try to put it in the ground, so we can see another earthquake. Mr Pechtold is not a climate spokesperson, I know that, so I keep to my question, but hasn't he also come to the conclusion, as a result of all the criticism from the green movement, that he was simply fooled by the conservative engine block or the conservative diesel, I can say, of VVD and CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u238	No, I don't feel that at all. With an open sight and with an outstretched hand, I will also look at the Party for Animals in the coming years to achieve our goal of reducing CO emissions as agreed internationally. We have now placed the greatest ambition on this dossier. D66 is for education, but if I look at and choose between results, I am even more proud of climate and energy than of the fantastic result of education. The agreements in which the Netherlands hung behind in Europe with the speed with which we changed are now so ambitious that we become the frontrunner. And every sector that Mrs Thieme mentioned is going to be involved in this: we as consumers, business, the agricultural sector, transport. I hope I'm about to see it. Mrs Thieme and I are in the Chamber for the same time. I hope that the moment will come when it no longer closes with 'what needs to be done about the intensive livestock', because this cabinet will also give farmers the opportunity to go down with their livestock, as is already happening in Brabant. We do want to keep the industry alive, but we also want to ensure that this sector also contributes. I hope, but perhaps now I am asking too much for compliments, that this will be included in Mrs Thieme's contribution as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u239	But if something is excluded in the coalition agreement now, it is a reduction in livestock. If we take one of the biggest polluters in the Netherlands, namely agriculture, we can see that LTO and its associates, the agricultural lobby, could literally write the coalition agreement on this point and that D66 was simply nowhere to be found. D66 has always argued for differentiation in VAT, not to apply VAT on sustainable products but to unsustainable ones. What do we see? Fruit and vegetables are becoming as much more expensive as meat and dairy. D66 could have made that different in the coalition agreement, but he didn't. There are good intentions, but they are for after 2021. Coal plants must be closed by 2030, but they can decide when to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u240	Can I get three points out of it? First of all, the point that you could move within the food basket. I have once been told what administrative misery comes over you when, for example, you are going to distinguish between meat and vegetables. Look at the average pizza, quattro stagioni. There's a lot of stuff on there. Is it in there, isn't it in there, and what percentage is it? It's a disaster. And that's the easy part. You were talking about the livestock sector. This cabinet is about $200 million. This comes from cooperation with parties that you initially think: how do we get out of here? One says there's too many animals. The other says: the farmers are having a hard time. And then you think together: okay, what does that mean for the industry? Are they reluctant or do they actually have the knife on the throat? Then you will work together and ensure that farmers are given the opportunity to work in another industry or to continue to work more economically in their current industry. That is for man, climate and animal first, so I say to you, much better. That's how it is now in Brabant, where we picked up the glove at provincial level. Nationally, the next Minister will ensure that this policy is continued. That goes exactly in the direction you would like, Mrs Thieme. And I'd like to hear your criticism, because it makes me even more excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u241	This coalition agreement is no different from the previous coalition agreement. After all, it leaves it to the business community itself when it comes to greening measures and what the timetable is going to be, while the cabinet itself sits on its hands. It is very nice that Mr Pechtold is making a strong plea here, also to put an end to the bio-industry, but I like to see actions. They cannot be found in the coalition agreement and there is also an explanation for that, namely that VVD and CDA do not want to change anything about that sector. I hope that in the coming period we will be able to come up with real concrete measures and that Mr Pechtold will feel free to work together with the political parties calling himself green, so that we can actually use this greening. Right now, the rule is over your own grave. That is what Trust in the future actually means, according to the Cabinet: trust that future generations will solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u242	In other countries, when politicians start fighting that people think: who's right, what's the facts, who's talking nonsense and who's right? You can see that now in the United States. In the Netherlands, as a democratic constitutional state, we have set up institutions for this purpose. I'm never much for throwing numbers, but these institutions are looking at the plans of a cabinet. For example, there is the Planning Office for the Environment in which the progressive parties, which are now all at the interrupt microphone, and yours truly trust. From the agreements we make to achieve climate objectives, the Plan Bureau for the Environment not only says that we are on the right path, but also that they comply with the international agreements as agreed, with the signature of Rutte, in Paris. And so, Mrs Thieme, we can disagree and form images of each other's views, but I think people should trust it when the Planning Office for the Environment says: this cabinet is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u243	Of course, every organisation says of good intentions: fine that there is a long-term vision of where we should ultimately go; by 2030, coal plants must be closed. But what we, as politicians, need to establish here is that there are no targets for the reduction of CO2 in the cabinet period for which Mr Pechtold will be responsible. There's nothing about that in the coalition agreement. So that means that governing is just moving forward. I can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mrs Thieme, now you are really starting with alternative facts! You're going to compare Mr. Trump, what do I get now? Let's talk about the ordinary people, about all the Dutch. You'll be living in a social rental house and now have a high energy bill there. This cabinet is going to build hundreds of thousands of new homes, make them energy-poor and renovate the existing ones for that purpose. That is a concrete result now, which not only pleases you and I as politicians, but makes people immediately have a lower energy bill. Concrete results, this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u245	That's the last thing I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u246	We did indeed laugh, because it said: rental houses get 100 million euros a year. That's about 50 euros per rental house. We can get some stripes and some LED lights for that. Is that D66's greening policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u247	I'm fine with it if we don't agree. But look at the ambition to stop connecting new buildings to gas and to make sure that companies that are still using gas are getting off that gas faster. It is a total package, it is a total vision, it is something for everyone, also for the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mr Pechtold mentioned that we are now leading Europe. What exactly are we gonna be frontrunners in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u249	I have just indicated to you that the agreements that have now been made in Europe are, of course, not ambitious. We're about to review it in 2019. In the Netherlands, we have shown that we can make plans from the rear, but yes, we have yet to begin those, calculated and well, ensure that the ambitions that are needed for this can also be met by the Netherlands. It is the ambition of the next cabinet not only to do something in the Netherlands, which of course is not an island when it comes to climate and energy, but also in Europe. Countries such as Poland and other former Eastern Bloc countries still suffer from brown coal and other misery. We want a common ambition in Europe, in which the Dutch objective not only ensures that we achieve what is necessary according to Paris, but in which, with our surrounding countries, we are going to look at the ambition of the Germans, the French, the British leaders to make it despite those who want to stay behind, sometimes because of understandable circumstances, because they are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u250	I know that Mr Pechtold does not like to scatter figures and have it very precisely about the megatons or how much per cent of renewable energy to go, but my questions are much more concrete than Mr Pechtold's rather comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u251	You asked: frontrunner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u252	If you're talking about being a frontrunner, what is the percentage of renewable energy in the Netherlands at the end of this cabinet period? What CO reduction for 2030 is there for sure? What megatons and what percentages are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u253	I think that people don't just want to know where you want to come out in 2030; by the way, I'm closer than I like. That is very ambitious, because we need to move from 40% to 49% now, but the ambition is to increase the temperature of 2°C to 1.5°C. As I do, you know the figures. You had it in your climate law, which we worked on. As far as I am concerned, we now have an equally ambitious policy, but not just for the degrees you and I need to talk about, but just for concrete measures, which Mrs Thieme and I have just crossed over. What does that mean in concrete terms? Those are the homes, those are the coal plants, that is the wind at sea, that is the innovation that we are bringing to that, that is the agricultural sector. In all these areas, directors will be individually responsible, in addition to the Minister for Climate Change, who will ensure that all these goals are met. I look forward to the many debates in which you can once again congratulate me on taking such a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u254	I'm looking forward to it, too. I sincerely hope that will happen. I am also looking forward to all those debates in which we will try to make this cabinet's plans even better. But I've asked very specific questions. The ambitions and fine words are beautiful; the whole coalition agreement is full of them. But let me give the answer myself, because I do not think Mr Pechtold has it ready. The share of renewable energy at the end of this cabinet period is likely to be no more than 20%. That doesn't make us a frontrunner, so we stay behind. If 40% of the CO2 reduction is to be achieved through CCS, putting CO2 under ground, which is paid from the SDE, so the money that is actually available for renewable energy, the cabinet is not going to achieve the goals it has and which I like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mr Klaver, who puts almost as much underground CO in their plans? Isn't that just GroenLinks? Yes, Mr. Klaver. Now we can sit down dimming, the cabinet with 18 and you with 13 megatons, but you do it yourself! You'll do it yourself. As green parties, let us not catch each other on the decimal point for 2030, which I am standing for, by the way. Let's take the opportunity to share the ambition that we share with the PvdA. Diederik Samsom was leading the way; a measure like this was supported by him too, and do not walk away again halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u256	I'm really looking forward to doing that together. Mr Pechtold says "dimmies" or "behind the comma," but it is good to look at exactly what is in election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u257	Sure. You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u258	CCS is in our election program. Does Mr Pechtold also know how much CO GroenLinks reduces?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u259	I've been...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u260	It is a very specific question. How much? How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u261	Well, I've been digging into your election program for the first few months, but, yeah, that wasn't necessary after that. I don't know what you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u262	How much? How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u263	I do know that when it comes to putting CO underground, the cabinet calls it 18 megatons and that you have 13 in your election program. So yes, that with the other measures together...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u264	I'll explain it very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u265	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u266	And round it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u267	Mr Pechtold, I am fine with you attacking me, but you must have your figures in order. GroenLinks reduces much more CO than is necessary. Ultimately, CO storage is the final part of tackling climate change and you only need it at the end. If you build your climate plans at 40% of your total reduction, with CCS, with putting CO under the ground, you will not achieve those goals. That is a dangerous policy. If this cabinet had CO storage in the coalition agreement, but at the same time it would not have 18 but 20 megatons of alternative savings, then you have a story and then it would really be an ambitious climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u268	We hear the megatons singing along the ears. Mr Klaver, in the end it is true: yes, you can have goals and yes, you can have different ideas about how you want to get there, but the most important thing is that you are on your way to those goals, when you are elected as a political party, when you have asked your electorate's mandate to do things, not walk away halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u269	You may respond briefly to this. Then it's really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u270	Mr Pechtold, you can turn it on harder and you can make it more personal, but I look at the facts in the coalition agreement. What I see is that what you have formulated there is not enough to achieve those ambitions. The way you apply that CO storage isn't gonna work, because you can't do it before 2030. And, very importantly, it is at the expense of renewable energy. If I just ask very specific questions about the objectives for this cabinet period and how many megatons, it will be dismissed as details. Mr Pechtold, this is exactly why I have no confidence in it. These aren't details. This is the core of climate policy that must make the Netherlands future-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u271	I am glad that the Planning Office for the Environment does not agree with Mr Klaver, but with the upcoming cabinet. I am glad that we are not only talking economically, like Mr Klaver, about numbers and percentages, but about clear agreements for the coming years. On the livestock, on transport, on the mileage tax for trucks, on aircraft taxes, on housing insulation, on many things and, for D66, on the innovative power that the Netherlands is going to show. Mr. Klaver, the hand stays out, but you're gonna have to deal with him sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u272	Alexander Pechtold asks for compliments from Marianne Thieme and looks forward to the many debates in which he will be congratulated. I always find it charming when someone like that is themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u274	Yes. If you read the cheers of the Amsterdam D66 framework a little bit, that will be done. Then you almost get the feeling that Wilders is right and that this is where Pechtold I started. In that light, I do have a question. How does Alexander Pechtold justify that, in a time of abundance, surpluses here, surpluses there, tax relief is chosen to cut down half a billion on the disabled, who have to work below the minimum wage, that there is a choice to cut down on people who are unfit for work? That's supposed to be $250 million. That is a saving of 750 million, which, as far as I am concerned, cannot be justified in the time in which we live. That really is the question to Alexander Pechtold. I understand he's proud of a number of points. I've been equestrian in that too, but this shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u275	I think it is very important that this cabinet pays attention to it and pays money to help people in sheltered work. You've seen the numbers. Those are huge numbers. We know that behind each number I believe that there are 20,000 people behind each number who have had few opportunities in the labour market. If you look at the big picture, you will see that all income groups are improving in the Netherlands in the coming years, but we also consider it important that people who can work get as many opportunities as possible to work. I am proud of the plans we have to increase the opportunities for older workers. I am proud that we, together with the UWV and the municipality, ensure that everyone in a difficult situation gets that chance. I know the plans are different than you might have wanted them to be in the past few years. So I also know how difficult it is to achieve ambitions in this area, but you can say to this cabinet that the plans we have for the labour market are in balance. That is why I am pleased that both employees and employers, all of whom have their critical points, all see the opportunity to move forward in further agreements with the Minister immediately where you have taken a first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u276	Mr Pechtold did not answer the question. Yeah, there'll be sheltered workplaces at................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's starting to happen. That's very difficult. The government needs to do more. But the cabinet chooses not to let people earn the minimum wage anymore and to subsidise the employer, but to lower people below the minimum. That's a lot of money: half a billion. Even in the estimates contained in the agreement, it produces the only growth in employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u277	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u278	Yes, it is! That is precisely what I think is a choice that is not necessary for financial reasons, which is not necessary for substantive reasons, but which is tantamount to bullying. If you say that everyone has to make progress, it is not fair to cut down on disabled people who want to fit in. That's a bad choice. I saw an outstretched hand with pins going in the direction of Mr Klaver, but I am counting on us perhaps to work together a little more fruitfully on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u279	I like working with Mr Asscher. I heard the most enthusiasm from him from the choir on our left. I am also glad that we have been able to discuss matters for the future together over the last few weeks. I believe that the forthcoming Minister will have the opportunity to help people who can or should work in any way, in a responsible way. Yes, of course. But we have also seen that in some sheltered workplaces some collective agreements paid up to 130% above the minimum wage. We have seen that sometimes it slows people down to grow, to get another job. Of course, I should not ask whether paternity leave was entirely to your liking, because that would be fishing for compliments again, but look at the total plans for the labour market, including everything that comes with it. For you have shown this over the past five years, how important it is that we do more about this gap between young and old, between high and low education. And I believe that the handles of this coalition agreement offer every opportunity to do so. Just as we have talked about things together over the past few weeks, I hope, just as you asked others, that you ask me if that outstretched hand is there. Yeah, there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u280	I do not agree at all, I do not mind at all if people who work hard earn 130% of the minimum wage; a different world view. But I note that Pechtold has said: in effect it does not have to lead to this austerity, a minister may make other choices that cause people who do this work simply to earn the minimum wage. That is what comes into play, and we are not going to take care of it today, that is clear. The only thing I would like to do today is to make it clear that no cuts are being made in community care. Pechtold is someone who never takes a lot of time to do business, someone who sees deals everywhere, like a hammer nails. This is an important signal he can give on behalf of D66: yes, I get it, 76-74, I am counting on you. You don't even have to answer, I'm counting on you, you're going to talk to the other parties, the withdrawal symptoms of that loft are already visible. I know that you are going to say in second term: yes, the 100 million cuts are not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u282	I find it difficult when a politician I regard as high, a politician who has just left a very difficult ministry, deals with figures so easily, which makes vulnerable groups and workers in important groups, namely care, feel that cuts are being made. In the coming period, 11 billion more will go to health care. We've all seen the call from Borst and Gaemers about the nursing homes. We fully meet the wishes of making 2 billion go there. But that there are agreements in the care, but also in the home care, in the medicine and in the hospitals, as well as under your cabinet, to see where, in addition to all the billions, the largest item of expenditure that is accessible to everyone, who is of a quality that the rest of the world is jealous of, can be ensured that there is cost reduction, in addition to the 11 billion that comes with it, not only do I think it is responsible, I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u283	You may respond briefly, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u284	The moment Pechtold gives compliments, they often have a hook. For he considers me high, but I do not seem to know the facts. The suggestion underneath! If you look at page 25 of the transfer by the Central Planning Bureau of Mr. Pechtold's coalition agreement, it says: main agreements are good to reduce the cost of care, but that 0.1 billion in the district care and in mental health care leads to a reduction in quality and a reduction in the size of care. That means in normal human language, within this house and beyond: a cut in budget. You can't say that the 100 million goes through all the costs and then it's not responsible anymore. The only thing I'm asking is that I don't need the answer, because I know he has to talk to his three friends about this: at that point, let's see that these aren't hollow words, that the outstretched hand doesn't contain crow's feet, nails and pins, but that you also want to reassure me not to worry about the people who are worried about that, witnessing burnouts and overexercise in the neighborhood care. We can do that today. That's how we have to do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u285	Relax? Yes. But with facts. You took one thing out of it. Yesterday it was VAT, people know very well: yes, you pay more in some places, but in total everyone gets more money in the wallet. So you pay maybe 3% in the supermarket, but you also have more money in your wallet, you have a lot more money left in that same supermarket. That's one. And when it comes to care and community care, Mr. Asscher, you can refer to the CPB and acknowledge that more money will go in 2018. That too is a fact. But my point is, because I have sometimes summarized things on the opposition side in a way that I thought: well, that's a little better. As far as I am concerned, from left to right in this Chamber, those 76 seats are not on Tuesdays as far as I am concerned: always along that line. It will happen once, but as the Prime Minister has just said, this is a cabinet for all Dutch people. This also means that as far as I am concerned, all representatives are invited to think along for the next four years. That's why I'm staying one of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u286	Thank you very much, Mr Pechtold. I now turn to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u287	Did the Prime Minister ever have a wife? It's a cabinet with no female charm. Wilders is a woman who doesn't want to be loved. In this debate, I notice that women are mainly involved in making jokes about it. I hope that women will be included in the next week if the cabinet is to be put together. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the negotiators on the coalition agreement that lies here. They've been busy for a long time. It took a lot of time. I would like to congratulate them warmly. I would also like to thank the informant for his commitment to a new cabinet. I would like to say that he has been very reluctant to inform the Chamber. And as enthusiastic as Mr Pechtold was about the new procedure, I would like to be so critical about it. For how much more openness has come from when it was still with the King? I would like to mention here that I found the low point of the copy note of the own risk sent to the VWS minister. Mr. Chairman. In the declaration of government, we deal in detail with all the issues contained in the coalition agreement. But I would also like to take advantage of this debate to give an initial appreciation and to make a number of points of substance. The task of this informant was to look for a cabinet with broad support, more than 76 seats, but also with broad support in society. I don't think that mission was carried out. I say: with this agreement, the Netherlands will turn right. Yesterday, my left-wing friends and I and many civil society organisations started an action to stop the VAT increase. I have heard a number of people from the new coalition say: people understand, it is also very logical that it happens, it is a very logical step. We are now in the middle of an evening and a morning and 30,000 signatures have been collected from people who say: to here and no further. Why do we bring up this VAT? At the moment there is money left in the Netherlands. We must give that money back to the people who felt the crisis the hardest. When I see that next to the VAT increase, there is a reduction in corporation tax and, perhaps even more intensely, the total abolition of dividend tax, I do not understand how you can make those choices. What I do not understand at all is that, if I am well informed, the abolition of the dividend tax was not included in any electoral programme. The VAT is not either. That is why my first question to the informant is: who came up with this idea? Can he tell us how this came about at the table? But I am much more interested in which social parties have lobbied for this. I would like to receive more information about that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is climate policy. When I read it, I thought, "Wow, very good." The compliment I would like to give is that the objectives that are being pursued are getting closer than I could have hoped with this cabinet. It is not the 55% of our climate law, but 49% is a good step and certainly the commitment they want to make in Europe to get it to 55% is just right. But why am I so critical? Why did I call it an air bubble before? Firstly, I see that no transfer of the PBL has been chosen. However, reference is made to a paragraph, to a table on page 38 of the coalition agreement with an indication of the measures. I would like to see a real climate review that also shows what is happening at the end of this cabinet period with the reduction of CO and the share of renewable energy. Secondly, the climate objectives have been watered down. I'm really curious why this choice was made. We gotta get ahead of ourselves. Thirdly, does the cabinet actually come up with its own climate law? Or is it going to talk to the authors of the original climate law? Fourthly, what exactly is the policy for this cabinet period? What's going on? What are the CO reduction targets? And what is the renewable energy objective? The previous coalition agreement stated that the renewable energy target was at least 100% by 2050. I would also like to know from this cabinet what the target is in 2030, and above all what the target is at the end of this cabinet period. Finally, stopping CO underground at the expense of real renewable energy is not a transition to a sustainable economy with a sustainable energy supply. This is literally ostrich politics. CO underground and the head in the sand. I'm gonna ask the informant to get a climate review done. I would like to receive these for the government statement. I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We can accept the recommendation to appoint Mark Rutte as an informant, sorry, as a formatter. The names are not yet known, but the informer reports that there is agreement on the extension of the cabinet to sixteen ministers and eight secretaries of state. My question to the informant is: how did this agreement come about? Has an analysis been started of what is needed, or the amount of items needed to keep all parties satisfied? In other words, was it about the content, or is it about the political dolls? And are the new rulers going to be the theme ministers for bacon and beans, or are they going to participate fully? Finally, I wish the formatter good luck in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u288	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're about to have a new cabinet. That's worth congratulations to the coalition, to the VVD, and to Mark Rutte in particular. He did it: a new team for his policy. And we've noticed. There was a cheer in the Malie Tower. VNO-NCW chairman Hans de Boer has even been spotted in a polonaise. The champagne was uncorked at the Board of Commissioners of ABN AMRO. It's a cabinet where bankers, big companies and multimillionaires lick their fingers off. A cabinet of merchants, pastors and consultants. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are good proposals in the coalition agreement. Let me just start with that, too. Two billion will be allocated to nursing homes. There's gonna be a climate bill. Classes are reduced in primary education. Then there is paternity leave, and there are, of course, the proposals concerning the payment of sick staff; after all, that was my own motion as well. A good idea, which comes from the SP and is introduced by this coalition: of course we support it. But let us be clear, and that is the answer to Mr Buma: we will always support good proposals that strengthen cohesion, increase security and reduce division. But where the differences between the people are increased and our common facilities are broken down, the cabinet finds us on its way. Mr. Chairman. After the crisis, which was caused by the banks, the account was deposited with society. People's securities disappeared like snow before the sun. The security of a permanent job and of an affordable home. The certainty that your child can study without having to put himself in huge debt, and that you will get a decent pension. The certainty that there's a police force if you need it or that you can go to court if you need it. Reduction after austerity was poured over the land. Meanwhile, the profits of large companies rose from 164 billion in 2009 to 196 billion now. But they were going to make less contributions to taxes. Now things are getting better economically, but this cabinet prefers these big companies again. Shareholders receive 1.4 billion, whereas with exactly that amount we could have given the teachers in primary education not only the class reduction but also the reward they deserve. Multinationals with billions of profits will pay even less tax, while ordinary people will have to pay a substantial additional tax for their daily messages by increasing VAT. The banking tax is not even in the government agreement anymore. In fact, according to the new cabinet, the buffers for banks can be lowered. It's like the crisis hasn't taught us anything. I'm also curious to know what the informant thinks about that. I'd like a reaction to that. Meanwhile, the ggz is abandoned, children who grow up in poverty have to tip, the financially most vulnerable people are left to their fate and older people who want to live longer at home have to do it with even less help. What do you mean, trust in the future? And then the accelerated increase in the AOW age continues. Soon everyone will be allowed to continue working until their 70th birthday, just now even a large part of the employers following the SP. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Is there any discussion at the table of the concerns of employers and trade unions about the problems with the increased age of AOW? And if so, why didn't they do something about it? Mr. Chairman. Government is compromise. But it is remarkable to see which promises and promises have not been fulfilled. The VVD promised multinationals that they would have to pay less tax. That promise is largely fulfilled. But what about the other promises? With the other promises to give people a more stable job, at least reduce their own risk, really do something substantial about poverty and introduce a student grant? It's all gonna be guessing. Everyone would improve on it, and by now you can put a lot of doubts about how significant that is. This also raises the question of how much each group actually improves in euros and, in some cases, simply declines, which is often the most vulnerable in our society. That's why it's a good thing there's gonna be calculations from the Nibud. I also assume, as I say to the President, that the report will be sent well before the debate of the Chamber with the new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Over 200 days have been negotiated. I ask the informant what points have taken the most time. I'm rounding up. In the explanation of the coalition agreement, the term "normal, normal Dutch" was frequently used. I would like to hear from the informant what its definition is and what it means. And most importantly, who doesn't belong to that? When money was returned, it was always said: to the workers. Look how many people you're gonna piss off with this. Students, vulnerable people in society, elderly people, people looking for work or people who are unable to work for any reason: according to the new cabinet, they do not belong to the "normal, normal Dutch." Mr President, I look forward to the major substantive debate with the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u290	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u291	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Labour Party, too, congratulations to the negotiators on their success. And thank you to the informant, the cheerful accountant. Nice to see you here. I have a question for him right away. I would like the archive of the information, with all the versions, documents and underlying documents to the Chamber for the debate on the government statement, so that we can also look at how that has developed. Last time, we needed a Pechtold motion for that. I guess that won't be necessary right now. Everyone agrees that this is wise: transparency. Mr. Chairman. I want to start positive. I have read in the coalition agreement a number of proposals which are absolutely good. We've talked a lot about paternity leave. The coalition did not agree that we would deal with the law, but what is at the end of the day is simply good and important for the emancipation of men and women in the Netherlands, and with five weeks it is not too rigid. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the approach to trafficking in women, abuse of women and abuse of prostitutes, as I have seen in the government agreement. I welcome the intention to tackle false self-employment among self-employed people. I also have a few questions and concerns about how they work out. Yes, there are good plans; we will support them, but it is also our job to weigh this up and see what is the ideological choice that is being made. There is, indeed, because if, in a time of prosperity, you see a record surplus, a cabinet with such a surplus to the formation, which is being made, the conclusion is justified that we are talking here about a right-wing cabinet, a right-wing cabinet that thus chooses to present 1.4 billion to shareholders, which opts for 3 billion in reduction of income tax, which chooses to give people with a lower tax, and which chooses to make messages more expensive at the same time, to cut down on the disabled, at the same time to cut down on the sick and at the same time, yes, to cut down on the district nurses. The people who have to do the work for all of us have been spoken great words. It was Mark Rutte who said, "We need to raise wages." What do the teachers, the military, the police officers, all those hard-working servants of the public cause see back from that? I looked. Bitter little. What does it say about making money in the public sector? A cryptic phrase, which seems to mean "I'd like to be confirmed by the informant "that the measure to make people advance in the public sector, repealing the Law norming top incomes 3 is. This is a choice that betrays an ideology: one is more concerned about the income of the consultant, the ICT's and the manager in healthcare, here in The Hague or elsewhere, than about the income of the police officer, the military who is still waiting for the AOW-hole to close and the teacher for the classroom. I'm happy with the 270 million for primary education. It's weird that they had to fight for that, but what does the teacher get in secondary school? What's gonna happen for all the others standing in front of the class? That's an investment in our future. So how will the Labour Party face this cabinet? Constructive on the proposals that are good. Absolutely; I am in politics too long and the Labour Party has too important a tradition not to respond in a real, credible way to proposals that are good. I know that every cabinet has to compromise and that every cabinet encounters setbacks, but I find it incredibly important that in this first debate it becomes clear whether those 76 seats after all these days in that booth are satisfied with the atmosphere and about the informant being able to see that there is a world out there, of people who have experienced and felt crisis, who have been in pain and who do not satisfy you with the spelling formula "everyone is getting better," but who are asking to invest in what is most important now: fine living, good care, a steady job. Social housing is mentioned once in the agreement, namely in the instruction to sell social housing. No, there's a housing shortage out there. Houses have to be built. A good place, steady work and good care. We will support proposals that contribute to the security of existence of every Dutch citizen. We will fight other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u292	When I started the negotiations for this coalition, of course, I kept my eyes open: if I really want to be able to say right away that this is a middle cabinet and that I really want to invite parties to the Chamber, I must also look at what is important. In recent years I have also looked a lot at the start of the previous cabinet and I have thought: what was the PvdA's commitment to? That was: everybody's getting ahead of it. My question is: are all the groups making progress? I also received from the PvdA: don't increase income disparities. My question to you is: do you see that the income differences in this cabinet are decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u293	I think there's been absolutely good work done by Wouter Koolmees, Carola Schouten, Mark Harbers and... Who am I shorting? Pieter Heerma, for crying out loud, my old social security buddy. It's beautifully crafted. In the short term, income inequality is rising and in the long term it is declining. That's good. I think there's more to it than that. If you take up my election programme, I don't know if Mr Pechtold had that opportunity, then you can see that much more is needed to reduce inequality. But... compliments. Where it was necessary, great work has been done in the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u294	"In technology," "long-term"...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u295	Look at them shiny! Watch Wouter Koolmies!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u296	Yeah, yeah. But now they're used to it being a party. You say, "in technology" and all that. No: in the wallet, in society, for all Dutch. Is this a cabinet that deals with growth in a balanced way? I hope from the business community, but also from the taxes that we all pay, which we all see now? More in the wallet. And: balanced. You have often drawn attention to the differences in income. They're taking off through this cabinet. I hope we can still work on that with you. But that was one of the things I had in mind when I thought: I'm standing there with that Asscher and we're going to show this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u297	Why didn't you make one more call? I answer the question seriously, even though this was again actually a request for a compliment for that figure and that coefficient in the long term. I gave you that compliment. Sorry, it went to the second guy. But underneath is the question: isn't the PvdA really very enthusiastic about this? Aren't we satisfied with this? The answer is no. If you're really honest with who's paying and who's getting it and where's being cut and where it's going, then a kid can see it. If you give 4.5 billion to the big companies and the shareholders, while you ask for money from people who do shopping and from people who work hard in health care and cut down on the disabled and long-term sick...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u298	I am so glad that we also have a great deal of money in this agreement for computational education. I hear it all the time now, but I think we should not stick to the facts in this democracy here in North America. The fact is that we all, we the Dutch, all Dutch get 5.2 billion relief. The companies even pay a little more: 100 million. The fact is: the companies pay more and we, the people get more than 5 billion relief. Inside there are shifts, but ultimately the purchasing power for all groups is higher. The facts, Mr Asscher!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u299	I find this more charming, Mr Pechtold, who brings up facts, almost more charming than when he fishes for compliments. Is it true or not that 1.4 billion in dividend tax is being removed? I believe that's a fact. If you say, all these people all get 5 billion relief... This 1.4 billion was not in any election programme. It goes to investors, hedge funds and shareholders, who aren't pathetic. You could have done amazing things with it and, even more importantly, should have done it. After all these years of shrinking, crisis, austerity and painful measures, it's time to invest in society, in the public sector. That stays out of here. Yeah, there's good plans and investments. Once again, I want to support it. But this choice, a cut on the disabled, a cut on the long-term sick and a cut on the care of the neighbourhood, is completely unnecessary and a gift for the big companies. That's multinationals over people couples. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u300	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u301	The words 'large companies' and'multinationals' often fall here, as if they were horrible things. When I think of the term "schools," I see children getting a chance. When I think about hospitals, I see that people there can get better. When I think about companies, I see where people earn their income, their independence, their independence. That's a company. The fact that we need to keep it here, that we need to innovate and that new start-ups need to have a chance is very important for our economy. We can't take everyone into public service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u302	That's true. In fact, I also see fantastic organisations and beautiful companies where people work great every day. But we're talking tax here. There is a shift in the Netherlands and across Europe towards less and less taxation of capital and more and more on labour. Then I think it is a wrong choice to now join the race as the Netherlands to the bottom with ever lower profit tax. In fact, you yourself supported a motion from the Labour Party, and with you the CDA and the Christian Union, not to participate, after the Brexit, in that race to the bottom, with ever lower profits tax. Now you're putting your signature under exactly that. Of course, those companies need to be there. We're happy about that, and we're proud of that. But you're sending a completely wrong signal right now. Yes, relief is necessary, but on labour. That shareholder and that income tax are needed to finance all these beautiful provisions for all of us. You're sending the wrong signal now. You say: The Netherlands participates in the race to the bottom and in the race who is the biggest tax haven. The Netherlands already levy less tax on profits. Now we're gonna take a huge blow downstairs, and you're responsible for that. Then that's what you have to stand for. Those are the facts. It is a choice that is at the expense of much that is dear and valuable to us in the Netherlands and therefore it is a bad choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u303	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Segers. I have quiet hopes that we will be able to end the first term of office around 1.30 p.m., but we are going to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u304	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the informant for his patience, his wisdom and his technical remarks, which were sometimes heavily loaded. I also thank the support staff. Few people have done a lot of work for a long time and I would like to thank them very much for that. I would also like to thank the fellow negotiators from the three other parties and the people who spoke to them. They were sometimes difficult conversations, but often very nice conversations. I would like to thank them for that. This has resulted in a coalition agreement. It took us 100 days. Those 100 days included a working visit by part of the Christian Union Group to Berlin, where U2 performed. Where that has led to, the intended formatter has just said: the letterbox companies are being addressed. Next time U2 comes to the Netherlands, Bono can sing: I still haven't found what I'm looking for. And rightly so. The discussions between the four groups, which were often also broader, have led to a valuable agreement. The Christian Union has entered the elections with a three-stroke. We have also come to the negotiating table with the same three-stroke. We have committed ourselves to the future of our children. And look what's being invested in education. See what room there is for families. And look what is being done in terms of sustainability and climate. This will indeed be the greenest cabinet ever. We have also entered into discussions with the firm will to reduce differences in our society, between flex and solid in the labour market, between young and old, between urban and rural areas and between newcomers and natives. And look what ambitions lie in the coalition agreement. We can work on that. Thirdly, with the coalition agreement and with our commitment, we want to stand up for our freedom and our security. That's why we're investing in defence and development cooperation. If this coalition agreement becomes a reality, we as the Christian Union Group can bring many of our ideals closer. Other groups can do that too, a very long or a small step. All things considered, we are convinced that this agreement will make a valuable contribution to the country's governance. It will only be possible for us to look for cooperation wider than just the 76 seats, and not add to 76 every Tuesday. That extended hand goes out to all groups, from left to right. This also applies to civil society organisations. Because there is still a climate agreement to be reached. Agreements will have to be concluded in all kinds of sub-areas. This vast hand also goes out to society, to civil society organisations that want to take their part in it. Madam President. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, the formation of a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union can begin on the basis of this coalition agreement. If it comes to a proposal to appoint Mr Rutte as a formattor in the second term, we will support that proposal. Madam President. This is an agreement to work on, with confidence in the future. To say it in very beautiful Dutch: the best is yet to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u305	Thank you very much, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u306	Mr. Chairman. Trust in the future. For the coalition parties, this confidence means that future generations will solve the climate problems. It seems that governing is moving forward. To move forward the climate problem, of nature, of a flight tax, of the closure of coal power stations and, above all, of the necessary reduction in livestock. This is a negation agreement, as MP Rutte wrote in the Volkskrant ten years ago. The messenger will present this article as a reminder. Mr. Chairman. The agreement has no ambition. It seems more important to govern together, if necessary with four political extremes under one umbrella. Rule your grave together; that's the real motto of this cabinet. Good intentions? They are, but they are not carried out in this cabinet period. Then who lives, who cares. The coal plants must close and close, writes the coalition, and new cars must be emission-free. But not until 2030, when Mr Rutte is 63. 13 years of irresponsible extra emissions. The causes are not addressed. This cabinet is not going to reduce CO emissions, this cabinet is going to store the CO. That's a very expensive, unsafe and unproven lap drug. Even industry is stunned by it. Like we don't have enough earthquakes already. The greenest cabinet? Where were Segers and Pechtold when Rutte wrote down 2 billion euros to stop in more asphalt? Highways through nature areas like Amelisweerd. New ring roads that cause even more air pollution, while thousands of people are already dying prematurely. The judge also flagged the government back on this. Have Segers and Pechtold noticed that Buma had his contribution to the government agreement written by the agricultural lobby? The coalition agreement is full of the passages in which the direction of business policy is laid down. We have seen this no less than seventeen times, particularly in the passages on agriculture. With this cabinet, business becomes even more co-legislator and regulator than it already is. One of the largest polluting sectors in the Netherlands, livestock farming, remains a sacred cow. The coalition thinks that with some solar panels on megasthals, manure factories that supply brown electricity, the shame spot of the twenty-first century can be washed green. Pure symptom control at the expense of animals and stables, that of CDA, VVD, ChristenUnion and D66 do not need to be adapted to improve fire safety. And what about the VAT increase for the first living needs? D66 and ChristianUnion claim that this is the greenest agreement, but fruit and vegetables, which are healthy and sustainable, become as much more expensive as meat and dairy. These are the most polluting foods in our shopping cart. Mr. Chairman. The mistrust between citizens and politics is further increased. D66 seems to no longer like democracy since the majority of Dutch people said no to the megalomaniac European plans in referenda. "Don't listen, but eavesdropping" is the motto that the new cabinet also embraces with the drag law. Not the citizen, who in the agreement is called "the ordinary, normal Dutchman," gets better, but the Netherlands for example. While companies and shareholders are being pampered, the basic grant does not return and the VAT goes up. The Netherlands is becoming an even bigger tax haven for the large business in particular. Mr. Chairman. The result of 208 days of negotiation with three informers is a grey, thin and visionless exchange document. But what do you expect if you let two great conservative parties take the lead in hazing the country in a way that even Vindicat would be ashamed of? My group has always advocated a climate cabinet; not a cabinet based on the size of the political groups, but a cabinet based on shared green ideals, for example with the parties that have embraced the climate agreement of Jan Terlouw and all the political youth organisations. We need to do what is necessary to prevent the most important and extensive crisis of our time, the climate crisis: to relieve our ecological debt. Now! Not in four years or later. Can the informant explain what role our ecological debt has played in the negotiations? A green system review was never in place for the CDA. Why has this not been a breaking point for the political parties calling themselves "green" in this agreement? How hard will the role of the announced climate minister become? Shifting measures means that the effects of climate change will be even more severe and the costs of climate policy will increase even further. And we can't afford that. I therefore also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u307	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Zalm, who acted on behalf of the Chamber. Although it is tempting to talk about the content of the coalition agreement, the title of this debate is quite clear: the debate on the informant's final report. That's a three-page report. And you, Madam President, said that this is a procedural debate today, and that is what I am restricting myself to today. But let us be clear that 50PLUS has enough to say about the agreement. We do not agree with many points, and we are certainly not satisfied, but we will keep that until the debate with the new cabinet. And yes, it took a long time. And yes, the Chamber was little informed. And yes, as far as 50PLUS is concerned, we are not sufficiently involved. That is a pity, because we would have liked to have played a more active role. Has the informant still spoken with the concept other than the four parties? The previous formation, which went remarkably fast, has been evaluated. 50PLUS has already indicated at that time that we should do so again on a subsequent occasion, and I am happy to give you that opinion, Madam President. Finally, I have three questions for the informant. Does he, as a former Minister of Finance, have any idea of the cost of enlargement to include four additional ministers with all the associated entourage that we know since last night that the intended formattor is not going to be in favour of? Will there be a coordinating minister for older people's affairs in the areas of living, work, care and income? Has the informant listened to his predecessor, Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink, who advised the parties to listen to the opposition? Has there been any discussion of possible cooperation during the procedure? Can we expect a little more in this area now and later, or is it just fine words? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u308	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u309	Madam President. Finally, it worked. There's a coalition agreement. Compliment to the negotiators of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion and also to the informant, Mr Gerrit Zalm. Madam President. The four parties have not exactly fallen into the arms of each other. Christian Union leader Segers even indicated earlier this summer that a miracle was needed to get Christian Union and D66 together at the negotiating table. It happened anyway, not because there was a real miracle and water turned into wine, but because all the parties put some water on the wine and came out with wigs and roads, with giving and taking. Actually, that should be called a miracle. The SGP wants to offer a fair opportunity to the new cabinet, as you are used to that of the SGP, independent and constructively. In the coalition agreement we see advantages in many areas, such as relief for families, extra money for palliative care and for helping with unintended pregnancy, strengthening educational freedom, tackling trafficking in human beings and investing in security and a strong defence. Of course, there are also the necessary drawbacks. We're missing a brake on a shot euthanasia practice. In the case of taxes, more needs to be done to really narrow the gap between one and two earners. We won't talk about the weed law. Then there are the questions. What about financial soundness? Will the extra money for the care end up with people who do not go to a nursing home, but who need care at home? On all these points, we shall return to the debate on the declaration of government. Today's debate is not with the new cabinet. In box K is now the informant to look back on the formation process. That's why I have a few questions for him. For his part, it has remained silent for a long time in this last phase. The previous informers came out more often. It seems to depend rather on the person of the informant how the information is filled out to the outside. How does he look at that? Wouldn't it be good to get more unity in that? How does he look back on his special note to Minister Schippers about his own risk? Does he agree with us that, in such a case, it is the right way for the negotiating parties themselves to ask the outgoing government through parliament? In the end, that's what happened, I'll add. Madam President. The formal purpose of today's debate is to designate a reformer now that the information effort has been successful. In the light of the final report, it is a logical follow-up step to designate Mr Mark Rutte as a formatter. If a motion is tabled for that in the second term, we will support it. It turned out that the intended formatter always discovers bright spots, again on Prinsjesdag. He gave a special answer to Mr Rutte's question as to why this cabinet formation is taking such an incredibly long time. The bottom line is that trust for the future is given when a lot of time is put into a good foundation. It may be my fault, but such a statement immediately reminds me of the parable Jesus once spoke of the foolish and the wise builder. The foolish builder built his house on sand. That happened very quickly, but when a strong wind and a storm came, the whole thing collapsed quickly. And his fall was great. The wise builder built his house on the rock with lots of plowing. When the rain fell, the streams of water came, and the winds came, it stood like a house. It didn't collapse, because it was grounded on the rock. The wise builder, says Jesus, is the one who hears and does my words. That foundation also gives confidence in the future in difficult times. That is the wise art of architecture I wish the formatter and his new team very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u310	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I now turn to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u311	Mr. Chairman. 208 days were needed. After a record period of 208 days, it was finally time. There is a coalition agreement for the ordinary, normal Dutchman. Every Dutchman is special and special for DENK. It is a coalition agreement with steps in the right direction, but above all with many missed opportunities. It is of course nice that more money goes into early and early school education, that child schemes are extended and that money is added for development cooperation. That is a starting point, which unfortunately does not outweigh the missed opportunities in the agreement. VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion fail to fight fundamental injustices in our society in times of economic prosperity. The division will remain. It is a missed opportunity, President, that the own risk at €385 remains and that the profits of health insurance companies are not skimmed. It is a missed chance that the antisocial loan system will continue to exist. It is a missed chance that nothing, but nothing at all, is being proposed to combat discrimination and racism. It is a missed chance that the children's pardon will not be extended to children who are rooted in the Netherlands. And it's a missed opportunity for the cabinet to choose potting at the expense of future generations, while you can now hold reserves to invest in economically worse times. Mr. Chairman. You have to dare to give large companies billions in relief and have all the Dutch pay for butter, cheese and eggs, the shopping tax. But, yeah, that's how we remember the VVD. You have to dare to have future generations forced to give up their second passport. In doing so, you actually doubt the loyalty of people of dual nationality who are still to be born or in their cradle. That's how we know the CDA, but I find it really incomprehensible that D66 has been involved in this. Mr. Chairman. The lubricant of this engine block is money, because every batch has been bought off by banker Zalm by hundreds of millions. There's no vision, there's no focus. Political hobby clerk Zalm has put together four political parties with individual measures. Therefore, the following questions. Never has so much leaked during a cabinet formation. Informateur Zalm said that spraying is a better description than leaking. It looked more like a cloud fracture of leakages. How is it that the NOS and RTL are constantly better informed than the Chamber? Why did the informant say that there's probably no deliberate leaks? How the hell does someone subconsciously leak? Or are MPs and coalition groups already trying to be friends with a number of journalists, so they can make a profile in the media later? Isn't that just shamelessly manipulating to get public opinion on your side, which, by the way, hasn't succeeded? That's what we saw last week at the teacher strike. The night before, 500 million more were leaked into education, trying to get the stinger out of the strike. That's disgusting, despicable politics. As far as DENK is concerned, we are dealing with the leak culture in The Hague. I would like a response from the informant, but we would also ask the President if she is prepared to report to the formation parties about the disturbance of the state order. At the beginning of the second term, please respond from your side. It might be possible at the Bureau. Mr. Chairman. A second question to the informant concerns the viability of this cabinet. In the assignment description, the informer is asked to forge a coalition that seeks broad support. I note today from the input of my colleagues that this has not been fully achieved. How's the informant looking at that? 88% of Dutch people think that the cabinet will fall prematurely. How does this fragile, fragile cabinet deal with setbacks? My third question concerns the statement by the informer on the fragmented political landscape as the cause of the long formation. Thirteen parties are now in the Chamber. That reflects the will of the electorate. By constantly working on terms about the fragmented political landscape, the forming parties and the informant projected their own inability on the electorate. Isn't this just the fear of some established parties that they should share their power with new parties? Mr Baudet will undoubtedly comment on this in his tirade on the party cartel. Finally, Mr President. I would like to conclude with an appeal to all 76 MPs of the coalition. The majority is extremely fragile, but as a Member of Parliament, you have a constitutional duty to vote without burden. I would advise my colleagues never to forget why you went into politics. Hold on to your ideals and principles. Know what influence you have. Any individual MP can be decisive in the future. This applies to Mr Wiersma of the VVD, to Mrs Kuik of the CDA, to Mr De Groot, my neighbor whom we like to call DENK66, for Eppo Bruins of the Christian Union. Know what kind of changes you can bring about. During this period do you write history or afterwards after the coalition, after the government write a bitter book? Because that's what we've seen lately. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u312	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u313	With thanks for the fine words of fellow minister Kuzu... Madam President. Today we are debating with the informer the coalition leaders' agreement on which the coalition parties' leaders have spent months and with which the coalition parties' groups have now agreed. The government agreement will therefore most likely be adopted and the cabinet will take office. In this way, today's debate is typical of the way in which the Chamber operates, without any real influence. You can compare it to a trip already booked. In fact, we are already on the plane and while the plane is taking off, the gentlemen invite us to tell us where we really wanted to go. That is precisely why the referendum is so important, even necessary. If we are already largely out of play in the Chamber, because that is what the electorate is all about. Election promises can be quietly crossed out by exchange. Without the possibility of holding a referendum, the government agreement cannot in any way be changed by the people. Trust in the future? Maybe but there is no confidence in the citizen. Not in democracy, not in popular will. The fact that D66 agrees with this is unheard of. We just saw Alexander Pechtold react laconically with the characteristic tone but what happens here is that one of the most important crown jewels of D66 is casually abolished by D66 itself. On 27 September 2017, a few weeks ago, the D66 website said that they were in favour of the referendum. Mr Pechtold did not even have the time to attend the debate on the abolition of the binding referendum and sent a backbencher. What Hans van Mierlo has fought for all his life is now being written off by Pechtold. The urophils have defeated the democrats of old and D66 may have to change his name to Juncker66; that covers the load a lot better. The Democracy Forum will do everything possible to protect the referendum. Through a referendum on the abolition of the referendum and by taking so many seats in the elections for Provincial States in March 2019, we will deprive the coalition of its majority in the First Chamber. Because the coalition agreement also disappoints on other points. No clear measures are being taken to tackle immigration and integration. No approach to radical mosques and no reduction in the European Union. In fact, from now on all these things are left to the European Union. If the European Union is to restrict immigration, you can wait until the end of the day. And the government continues to grow. We are now getting more burdens for the choice and then in the future we will have to reduce the burden. The VAT increase comes immediately, but the promised simplification of income tax will only take place in 2021. Otherwise, I'm told the IRS can't handle it. But increasing VAT directly is apparently not a problem. We'll just have to wait and see if we'll ever get the money we promised. Indeed, VAT has already been increased to 21% as a temporary crisis measure. She still hasn't been reduced. No, now the low VAT rate is also being increased by 50% from 6% to 9%, which will, of course, affect the lowest incomes in particular. Is there any other way? I have some FVD proposals for the informant, who would be better, more concrete and more democratic. We'd like to hear his reaction. Shorten the partial and non-objective NPO. We propose a structural reduction of the budget of the NPO by 500 million a year. With this money, we will reduce the healthcare premium for everyone by €40 per year. Taking asylum and immigration policy into its own hands by introducing the Australian model, whereby the Netherlands decides who enters and who does not instead outsource it to Juncker and Timmermans and wait for things that are never going to happen. It is not increasing development aid but reducing it and spending it on a substantial duty-free base for everyone, which, above all, improves the purchasing power of the lowest incomes and always pays to go to work. Addressing the bureaucracy in healthcare by putting pressure on health insurers. Giving freedom of expression ample scope instead of giving the click-and-complaint industry and the hurts of this world even more freedom. Finally, property owners who have paid off their mortgage do not punish with higher taxes. Finally, we are giving advice to the reformer who will be appointed: choose professional ministers in all ministries, men and women from the field. We have seen in the drama of Jeanine Hennis that party political appointments lead to misery because unfortunately knowledge of things is all too often lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u314	Thank you. I would actually like to make the proposal, also in response to the request made by the informant, to give the informant an opportunity to reply anyway, because he does not need a short suspension. If there is a need for a second term for many people, I want to suspend after him and then keep the second term. If there are few who make use of the second term, we will simply finish the debate. Okay. Then we just keep going, at least... It's never good to discuss suspension. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u315	The outcome is not entirely clear to me now. I think there's a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u316	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u317	Mr President, I would like to propose a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u318	I'll give the informant the floor first. He hasn't been asked that many questions. Then I'll suspend and then we'll go to the second term. I give the floor to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u319	Mr President, thank you very much. It's with some nostalgia that I'm in "K." It's been over ten years since I've been in a different position there. It's kind of special, because I'm a retired informant now. Yesterday I submitted my final report and then the work is done. But a debate in the Chamber is part of it, so I can give the Chamber information on questions. Not everyone has asked questions, to my satisfaction. However, a few questions have been asked. Some questions relate to the content of the coalition agreement. That's up to the parties. As I see my role as an informant, I'm the mediator, the trial counselor. You have to ensure that there is a final result, but the party leaders and the parties are ultimately responsible for the content. That means that I will not even go into a number of questions that have been explicitly asked, if they are related to the content of the coalition agreement, because I really leave that to the negotiating parties. Mr. Rutte didn't ask me anything, Mr. Wilders didn't ask me anything, Mr. Buma didn't ask me anything, and Mr. Pechtold didn't ask me anything. That was, of course, a great disappointment, but of course they have had the opportunity to ask me questions before. Mr Klaver asked about the provision of information to the Chamber. I think that's a complex and difficult subject. Over time this has been done in different ways. My predecessor, Mr Tjeenk Willink, had an interim report. That also had a reason, namely that something had crashed. Then you also have to explain why it crashed. During the time I was an informant, it didn't crash, so you keep going until you have an end result. Then, of course, you can say weekly, as Edith Schippers did in the beginning, but what she didn't advise me was that you met for a week, and then say nothing with flour in the mouth. Then give me the recommendation of Wittgenstein: what you cannot talk about, you must keep your mouth shut. That's actually my motto, because meaningless reflections of an informant who can't tell us what happened and what we're all doing... Negotiation processes require confidentiality and secrecy, especially on the part of the informant. What all party leaders want to say, they all need to know, but I need confidentiality to promote the process. I suspect that there will always be an issue around on the one hand the confidentiality of the information phase and, on the other hand, the transparency that you would like from another point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u320	Mr Zalm is now looking back at the way he did that. There have been several times when the Chamber has asked for information. There has been one moment when there has actually been information. The Chamber had asked a question and we received a copy of a letter to the Minister. How does Mr Zalm look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u321	In any case, that has been a brief answer from my side. I like brevity. If you don't have more to say than you need to, you'll do it as short as you can. Another question has been asked. Of course, the Minister had to come up with something. I made that request to the Minister on behalf of the negotiators. I would like to say in procedural terms that perhaps the negotiators should have taken up the request to the Minister themselves, here in the Chamber, rather than let it go through me. However, in this respect I have perhaps been a little too generous and I have not pointed out to the negotiators the state-law side of this way of conveying the request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u322	I'm gonna keep going on this because it's important. Actually, we're still trying something new. If the Chamber asks for information and then receives a copy of a letter to the Minister, I do not think that is the way in which an informant should correspond to the House of Representatives. I would also like to have said that for the report, because I think it is important for the continuation and for all the other times that we are going to form that we are going to take a different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u323	Yes. I do not have a successor as an informant, but I think that the General Affairs advisers, who may be made available to the Chamber again next time, have saved this. I see there's a noding in the back, so it's gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver also asked about the number of directors. Does that have anything to do with the need for more, or is there something to do for them? Do we get ministers for bacon and beans? The previous cabinet was relatively small, also in historical perspective, with twenty directors. That's going to be 24 now. There have been Cabinets that had a few more. I also think there's plenty to do. In many areas there are major challenges, as the coalition agreement also shows. It is, of course, up to the reformer to finish it, but ministers who are purely coordinating and have no staff or budget are not provided for in my knowledge. So it must really be a minister with powers, with budget and also with staff. At least, so far we've come at the stage in which I was an informant. The question has also been asked as to who has now come up with dividends and corporation tax. Yeah, that's something I can't answer. I consider that to be the confidentiality of the informant, which he owes in this kind of process. If you have to say on every subject who has said what, then the role of trust is no longer present. You can ask the party leaders what they think. It is not for me to reveal what has been discussed in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u324	I have a great understanding of the secrecy of the formation. Closedness after the formation is completed is more difficult for me. I asked the question two times, not only about the positions of the group chairmen and negotiators, but also about the civil society organisations that lobbied for this. I don't think that's information that needs to be kept secret. That is why I would like to know which parties in this cabinet have called for the dividend tax to be reduced, or actually abolished altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u325	I haven't received a single lobbyist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u326	There are, I know from experience, lots of letters, hundreds of letters being sent. The question I'm asking, I'd like to have an audience. I would simply like to know at this moment, even before the second term of this Chamber, what letters have been sent calling for further reduction of the dividend tax. Why do I care? It wasn't in anyone's election program. I just can't figure out who the hell came up with this. And that is why there must be a lobby behind this for whom this is very important. I would like to be given the letters that make it clear which parties have lobbied for this debate as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u327	To my knowledge, some 700 letters have been sent to me. The negotiators were given the opportunity to have access to it. I've given them an overview of what we've got now. I don't have a letter on dividend tax reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u328	The question I asked was another one. I imagine you don't know exactly what it says from those 700 letters. I ask whether, before the second term of the Chamber begins, the Chamber can receive the letters to the informant which lobbies to bring down the dividend tax. That's a request for information. Now that the information is over, I'd like to receive that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u329	It's a little complicated right now, because I'm out of office by now. And I'm getting a reformer to succeed. I guess it'll be a question to the formatter. I'm not exactly sure what this is like under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u330	You asked the question in general terms. It is customary for the whole formation file to go to the Chamber at the end of the formation led by Mr Rutte, I think, in this case. It is also important for historiography that everything is handed over around the formation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u331	I had asked for the archive to be made available with all these documents before the debate on the declaration of government. That happened last time because of a motion Pechtold, a good motion. If we do not have this discussion, we will be able to have that debate to the full in a few weeks' time. I think everyone agreed with that. Then we don't have to wait until the formation ends. This history is also important for the assessment of what will happen later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u332	With that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u333	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u334	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u335	My request was really another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u336	That's right. It's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u337	It's very good that all these things are made public. I can still wait until we have the debate on the government statement, but I have a very specific request on who lobbied for this dividend tax. I'd just like to get that information today. It's not in anyone's election program. I wonder where this came from. I'd like that information. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u338	As far as I know, no letters have been received on dividend taxation, but I will check it again just in case. If they are there, they can be presented, in anticipation of the general disclosure of the large archive. I come to Mr Roemer. He's asking me how I feel about the fact that the banking tax is going down. I did not find that passage in the coalition agreement. I can only see that there is a measure which reduces the deductibility of interest for banks, a special minimum capital rule. I did find it. Furthermore, I have found nothing specifically about banks in the fiscal sphere. This is quite apart from the fact that, of course, it is up to the negotiators and not me to defend all the tax measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u339	I cannot imagine that the informant, with his knowledge, does not have an opinion on anything and does not give any advice. I have heard that he has given advice on a number of occasions. Some even said literally: more than we loved. That indicates that he did. I didn't say the bank tax was going down. I said that the bank tax is no longer in it. We have known them in the past. The second was that banks' buffers fell from 4% to 3%. That's his advice. Given the past, we've learned from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u340	The bank tax isn't in it. That means that nothing will change that. So the bank's tax stays. Furthermore, the only specific measure I have found in relation to banks is a restriction, the thin capitalisation. Therefore, more capital must be held, also from the tax point of view, and banks receive less deduction of interest than they had so far. I think that's all there is to say about banks and the tax thing. The question is whether we have talked to trade unions and employers about the AOW and the AOW age. We have indeed talked with both trade unions and employers about everything in the labour market. We had good hope that they would come to an agreement and that we could do something with it. We have seen that there has been no such thing, that they have not been able to reach agreement. In the coalition agreement there is a passage about working through to the AOW age and what the cabinet wants to do. This can be found on page 28. But here too, you must, of course, be primarily with the negotiating parties for the content and the defence of the content. I don't have a definition of "ordinary Dutch," but I understand Mr. Rutte. You might have another one. I don't have any, anyway. As far as purchasing power figures are concerned, if you want a little more variation and want more than just the standard purchasing power figures of the CPB, you might consider allowing the Minister of Social Affairs to make a somewhat more detailed purchasing power picture here than the short summary in the CPB document. Then you can see a somewhat wider spectrum, including frequency distributions and including special groups, than is currently in the CPB documentation. I know Mr. Asscher is friends with the Minister of Social Affairs. Maybe that's how it gets to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u341	Just a few more weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u342	Yeah, just a little bit longer. Enjoy it. It contains a passage on government remuneration, in particular that it should be possible for people for scarce jobs to come into ordinary service instead of being hired. So it's not consultants, it's people in the service. It should be possible. The practical consequences for legislation and regulation will have to be taken into account by the new cabinet. The concept of ecological guilt has not been mentioned so much in my memory. However, extensive discussions have been held on climate policy. A firm paragraph on this has also been included in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u343	The retired informant is friends with the one who was an informant. I thought it was meant that the law wouldn't regulate top incomes 3. It ensures that people are well employed, but against an income that is extremely generous, namely that of a minister. You've lived on that for a while too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u344	Look, the interpretation of it is going to be up to the cabinet. I can't explain if this means the WNT3, the WNT2 or the WNT4. It's up to the Cabinet to see how it's going to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u345	It could be worse? It could also be about the WNT2, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u346	That'll prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u347	The ecological debt has not been mentioned, a missed opportunity. Of course, there was talk of a climate ministry. I asked a question about that. How hard is this part gonna be? What's the exchange? Is it a ministry that's gonna get perseverance, too? Climate change and its approach are many areas. So I'd like some more information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u348	The debate on what the new ministerial posts will look like and what powers they will have will have to take place during the formation period. So I think you should wait a little longer to get an answer to that question. What I have already indicated is that there will be no ministers without their own budget and without their own official staff. So that is already an important starting point. I believe that this reasoning should also apply to a minister who has a climate in his portfolio. It will have to be demonstrated how exactly the minister has that primary climate in his portfolio is positioned. This can, of course, also be a combination of existing ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u349	I am somewhat surprised that hardly any mention has been made of the implementation of such an important, truly cross-border ministry. This gives me reason to think to what extent climate policy is actually becoming a core part of the coalition agreement. Have you also insisted on giving much more weight to this or giving more substance to it in order for the Chamber to have an exchange of views on it during this debate and further debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u350	The fact that a great deal of attention and text has been devoted to climate policy and financial resources have also been allocated to it seems to me to be a sign of a very heavy role for that minister. Mr Krol respected the nature of the debate as it was conceived. So he did ask me a few questions, including the provision of information to the Chamber. It is not the case that the draft governing agreement was also discussed with other than the four parties. Of course, the negotiators have also had in mind: how do things lie with others? Mr Asscher seemed to find some nice things in the coalition agreement. The same applies to Mr Klaver and some others. I have not heard that from Mr Wilders. The SGP also made a comment on this. The negotiators have therefore kept in mind that cooperation with these ministers must continue in the future. I cannot tell by heart what additional costs four ministers will cost, but that is also more a task for the current Minister of Finance, who may be able to do it just as quickly before he is gone. Coordinating... Listening to the opposition is also a point raised by Mr Tjeenk Willink in his report. I think that's important. Like I said, that's what stayed in mind. I have already answered Mr Van der Staaij's question about how you deal with the publicity. That's a tough one. It's been wrestled with a lot of times. I have chosen to dive as long as I have not submitted a final report to the Chamber or to give all kinds of press conferences as an informant. You can do that differently, but then you also have a bit of a problem with the fact that you are talking to the press and not actually informing your client about the content. I think that's a rather difficult figure too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u351	Mr Zalm started with the answer to my third question, whether there will be a coordinating minister for older people's affairs, and he also swallowed his answer immediately after the first word. So maybe he can finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u352	Whether or not there will have to be found in the formation. It has been established that there will be 16 ministers, but the job descriptions of these ministers will be finalized during the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u353	In that respect, I can imagine Mr Zalm's considerations. However, I do note that there are quite a few differences in the way in which informers deal with it. If the Chamber itself wishes to do so, we could take it further in our own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u354	Yes. It was partly based on a tip from the previous informers, who said: I did something to the press every week, but you're actually a monkey, because you have nothing to say, so you might as well leave that out. Well, that was me. Mr Kuzu has mentioned that so much has been leaked. I'm really sorry about that, too. I also mentioned in my offer speech to you, Mr President, that you actually want to offer the end result to the President of the Chamber. Then it is very unfortunate that it has been in all the newspapers almost a week before. My expression of not knowingly leaked was only on the point of medical-ethical, about which an entire document had ended up with a journalist. That is what I used the 'non-conscious leak' qualification for, not for the leaks that came out just before the outcome of the coalition agreement, because then there would have to be a lot of unconscious MPs, and that is not the case. Mr Kuzu: my observation that the landscape is fragmented is not a kind of moral judgment, but a factual observation. The fact that you need at least four parties to create a cabinet is a consequence of that. That's gonna make it tough. So it's not moral judgment. It is a factual finding, which does bring with it complications. In the direction of Mr Baudet, I cannot resist doing something with the figures. He says that the VAT increase starts immediately and the income tax does not start until 2021. The VAT increase will not start immediately, but in 2019. A reduction in income tax is also foreseen in 2019, as shown in the Annexes. I can't resist one of those things for a while, actually... It's a factual technical remark!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u355	The informant, of course, received an assignment at the front. That assignment is very clearly defined in the motion. It also states that the four parties must reach a coalition agreement, a coalition agreement based on a broad majority of the House of Representatives. Does the informant think that he has succeeded, heard the debate today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u356	Yes, and I think today's debate is not even the leading debate. The debate on the declaration of government will be decisive. What I do know is that the ambitions for climate policy are more exciting than just the coalition parties. I also know that the paragraph on education also makes more than just the coalition parties enthusiastic. The same applies, I think, to the paragraph on security and defence. I can name a few more. So it was also considered during the discussions whether other parties could agree to this. I think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u357	Has there been any discussion on issues for which there is no such broad majority? I am referring, for example, to the VAT measure or to its own risk. It would also adorn you if you could list it. I know you as an optimist...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u358	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u359	... but in this case, I think you're very optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u360	No. We have also talked about our own risk. The conclusion has finally been drawn that it will be frozen during this cabinet period. There is therefore also a certain balance to be found. Then Mr Baudet asked me for a substantive opinion on a list of cuts. Eleven years ago, I would have reacted extremely enthusiastically, but this is not appropriate in my current role. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u361	Thank you. Mr Krol, have you forgotten something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u362	No, Madam President. I'm afraid you're forgetting something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u363	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u364	During my contribution I asked whether it would not be wise to evaluate after this formation. I saw you nod enthusiastically, yes, but that may not be in the Acts, so I'd like to hear that directly from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u365	Each formation is automatically evaluated, including this formation. We have already agreed on this for a long time, but it is good that you ask again. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u366	I had asked another question about the PBL overdrafts, which I do not see. I do see an assessment of the results of certain measures, but I do not see any passing on of the concrete measures announced. Is it going to come before we have a debate on the government statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u367	No, we have been in contact with the PBL and also asked: if you see this like this, do you have any comments? So it's been submitted to them, but there hasn't been a pass-through. I also think that a passing-through requires further implementation of the policy of the upcoming cabinet. For example, there is one large collection post of 300 million; I will just mention something. There is also an item in the increasing budgets which we receive from a certain levy and which still have to be used. For that you really need a minister who consults with social parties, municipalities and other governments to see what is the most efficient way to achieve CO reduction. That is the formula in the coalition agreement. That is difficult to calculate because that agreement and that consultation still have to take place. The objectives are clear, but the instruments are still flexible. This should be designed in the most efficient way possible, with CO reduction being the central objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u368	And that debate is definitely coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u369	Of course, but if I understand correctly, the informant actually says that the climate measures in the coalition agreement are not concrete enough to allow the PBL to pass on. Would the informant have accepted this if it had been the case with public finances? If it had been said "well, that's not quite concrete yet, that needs to be further worked out by the trade ministers and only then can the CPB see what the proceeds are" would this informant have been okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u370	Well, this informant will be okay if there's only one coalition agreement. But it is fundamentally different in this case. You also need other parties outside central government in order to achieve an effective climate policy. You're dealing with provinces and municipalities. You're dealing with civil society organisations. You really cannot dictate this centrally from The Hague. However, we have ensured that the financial resources are available. They're also not exactly specified yet. The objectives are clear. We have a procedure that should lead to a further implementation of this climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u371	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u372	Finally. We are going to discuss this further in the government declaration, but it is not true that climate policy requires all kinds of other parties and not other measures taken by the government. For example, in order to carry out well the decentralisation of a lot of care tasks to the municipalities, you also need other governments. This is calculated to the decimal point by the CPB. You can see that climate is really treated differently than any other policy, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u373	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u374	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u375	This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber and the informant. I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. I expect Mr. Zalm to be back in trade-k.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u376	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the final report by the informant. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Mark Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the motion, I would like to make two comments. Several members of the Chamber have asked for information to be sent. In fact, I think it would be wisest to say that, in anticipation of a possible appointment this afternoon, for the debate on the declaration of government, what was also sent last time following the Pechtold motion, which was adopted at the beginning of the information in 2012. This concerned all the mail received by the negotiating parties throughout the information period. In this case, therefore, it concerns all the posts entered by five political parties, the four that will form the cabinet plus GroenLinks. In addition, it concerns all requested official notes. They will then be made available again in that form, just like Asscher and I did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u378	I think that's a good deal. Then we don't have to file that motion like that. One point that Pechtold also mentioned at that time is that it is useful if it is also delivered digitally searchable, so that you can also get started with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u379	Those 700 letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u380	Sure. You can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u381	Okay, let's go check it out. That's not quite my forte, but we're gonna see if there are others who can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u382	Perhaps you do not have to do it personally, but it is useful for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u383	I get it. The second is that comments have been made on investigations by Nibud and Social Affairs. On behalf of the four parties that intend to form a coalition, I would say that I think it would be wise to ask for such an investigation at the Nibud and also at the Department of Social Affairs. So there's support for that. This is different than in 2012, when the Labour Party and the VVD started. That's when we stopped it, I understand. But we've moved on, so we're just gonna do it now. Then I'd like to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the report of informant Gerrit Zalm and its opinion on the cabinet formation;]] [[takes on board the content of this opinion;]] [[appoints Mark Rutte as a formatter with the task of forming a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Mark Rutte, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u384	In my first term, I asked, also towards the informant, where the abolition of the dividend tax came from. I understand that the informant does not feel called to comment on the positions of the various parties, but I can, of course, ask one of the negotiators. Where did this come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u385	I got that question from the media, too, but I find that really complicated. Then you need to give some insight into what different parties have put forward in the negotiation process at different times. That would damage the confidentiality of those conversations. That's why I really wouldn't want to. You can see the outcome of the negotiations here. The four parties take full political responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u386	I really do understand that. If we asked for it in response to all the choices, it wouldn't be possible. But I think this is an exception to Mr Rutte's general rule. The dividend tax was not included in the electoral programmes of these parties. The same applies to VAT. These are not two small points; no, these are really huge points that are suddenly in a coalition agreement. I would very much like to know how this came about. This concerns, on the one hand, the question I asked the informant: who lobbied on it, and which party insisted on it? On the other hand, I believe that the Chamber, but certainly also the Dutch people, is entitled to this. 1.4 billion as a gift to foreign shareholders, that's quite a lot. There's been lobbying for years for extra money for the Defense Department. Adding 1.5 billion now. And out of nowhere, 1.5 billion is now being returned to shareholders who come from abroad. So I'm really curious where that came from. This is different from the general rule that Mr Rutte makes, which I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u387	I really don't agree with that. So I'm sticking to the previous answer. Those 700 letters that came in are being reviewed right now. At least we found one piece in which someone refers to the dividend tax. It will be further mapped out. Once that's done, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u388	So that the Chamber can do all the budgets a little orderly: when is that cabinet going to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u389	This afternoon I will formally have a discussion with the three group chairmen of the other parties joining the coalition. But the planning as it is now with pencil, can I add that? It will be that the cabinet will be on the platform on Thursday 26 October, if I may put it that way. It would then be conceivable that the debate on the declaration of government could take place, and I am not referring to that, of course, but to the Chamber as a whole on Tuesday 31 October and Wednesday 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u390	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u391	Mr. Chairman. I keep finding it bizarre, that 1.4 billion-dollar gift, which we have no idea where it came from. I still think it is absurd that we should also increase VAT. Just at a time when the economy is going well, at a time when there is money left, you should not make people's messages more expensive. That is where we started a social action. It's going really well. We are going to try to increase the pressure as far as possible to ensure that this measure is withdrawn. I am also pleased that not only in society but also here in the Lower House there is a front emerging. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in the low rate of VAT has a significant negative impact on people's purchasing power and economic opportunities for small businesses;]] [[whereas, at the same time, the tax on profits for large companies is significantly reduced, whereas in most countries around us a higher rate already applies to the Vpb;]] [[points out that the increase in VAT by 2019 should be deleted and financed by looking for room in the burden relief for large companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Thieme, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u392	Thank you, Mr President. It's already been a big deal about climate. The declaration of government will be discussed again. I found the answer of the informant, the former Minister of Finance, striking: the measures are not yet concrete enough, society needs to be involved and we cannot pass this on. If you have a coalition agreement, you'll be laying down plans that are clear, so you know exactly how much COwe you're going to reduce. That doesn't just make you dependent on what agreements you can make in society. It's also just about things that you can take care of as a government itself. That's why I really want a climate bill, and I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement "Confidence in the future" expresses the ambition to implement the Paris climate agreements;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Government Agreement does not provide sufficient evidence of how this ambition is achieved;]] [[Considering that next week the National Energy Exploratory will be published with which the latest facts about our energy economy become known;]] [[calls on the reformer to ask the Planning Office for the Environment to pass on the effects of the coalition agreement package to CO emissions reduction, share of renewable energy and energy saving, and to forward it to the Chamber for the debate on the government declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u393	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have good agreements about the formation archives and the Nibud. So I will not table any motions on that. I have one motion on the appreciation of the district nurse. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that district nurses provide the largest group of elderly people;]] [[noting that district nurses are doing a fantastic job but having a hard time due to lack of colleagues and lack of time;]] [[believes that all older people should be able to count on good care, both in nursing homes and at home;]] [[points out that the new cabinet should exclude district care from cuts in the conclusion of new basic agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u394	Mr President, the motion has been deliberately formulated in such a way that I am sure that, given the content of their speech, the four parties should also be able to support it. That would be an important signal from the 76 to the 74. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u395	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two points, first about the climate. I spoke in an interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold about the extent to which these are the most ambitious climate measures and the most ambitious climate cabinet ever. He accused me of being factually free to debate, but unfortunately we have to note that this is the case on the coalition side. We do not know at all what the measures are going to do, because nothing has been calculated. That is why I supported the motion for a resolution to be passed on to the PPE-DE. Mr. Chairman. We now have a coalition that is really impossible: political extremes try together to rule the Netherlands under one umbrella over the coming years. That is the outcome of a long formation, in which the task of Mr Zalm was to look at a coalition agreement that could count on broad support in parliament, not only in the Lower House but also in the Upper Chamber. I can see that, in addition to the coalition parties, the parties look very critically at the coalition agreement and, in particular, reject the coalition agreement on a number of crucial elements. So you should ask yourself how much the information has succeeded. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the task of the informant was to examine the possibility of a cabinet seeking broad support for its policy in the parliament;]] [[noting that the coalition relies on the smallest possible majority in the States-General;]] [[concludes that the informant has not succeeded in his task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u397	Thank you, Madam President. I have two motions. The first one I submit is because the informant gave me the tip to contact the formatter on that. Of course, I'd be happy to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the reformer in the composition of the cabinet to be formed to set up a coordinating minister for Elder Affairs in the areas of housing, care, work and income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u398	Because, of course, this is not just a task for the cabinet but for each of us here in this Chamber, I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the need for an integrated policy on the elderly in society;]] [[older people's policy is of great social importance, which does not specifically concern one ministry;]] [[a special Committee on Older People's Policy was previously active in the Chamber;]] [[considers that it is necessary that older people's policy should also be treated in full in the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Chamber to set up, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, a special Committee of the Chambers on Older People's Policy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u400	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u401	Madam President. First of all, thank you to the informant for answering the questions asked. Questions had been asked about getting out during the information. We have said that it is a good thing to come back to this during the evaluation by the Chamber itself. The second point was about the own risk note. I was pleased with his answer, in which he himself stated that it is indeed the royal road that in such a case the negotiators via the route of parliament ask the Minister for such a law. Mr. Chairman. In view of the process, we naturally support the motion to appoint Mr Mark Rutte as a formatter. We will not support the substantive motions on VAT and neighbourhood care. I have given substantive signals about this in my contribution, but I think it is too early to ask for a Chamber ruling on it now. On the question of coverage, too, we still have objections or objections. lack of coverage at that point. That is why we will not support these two motions. We will be supporting the process motions, aimed at Nibud and throughput, because that is indeed important for the further follow-up, the debate on the plans of the coalition agreement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u402	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u403	Yes. I have a motion. That motion is as follows. I even wrote it down. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the reformer to remove the withdrawal of the referendum from the coalition agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u405	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the second term of office and also at the end of this debate, because no questions have been asked to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u406	I understand that there is a need for a short suspension of about 15 minutes before the votes. Five minutes? I see all hands. Okay, then I'll suspend for five minutes. But before I suspend, I am going to ask the Nibud to carry out the calculations requested and to forward them to the Chamber well before the debate on the declaration of government. Then I'll suspend for five minutes and then we'll vote.
