ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week was in the news that BNR got sensitive police information through an ethical hacker. Sensitive information from the police has fallen into the street because the police have allowed old domain names to expire. For example, e-mails from the police could end up with the new owners of that domain name. These included arrest warrants and a carnival security plan in a context and a time when there is a lot of threat. But it also applied to the exchange of e-mails with sensitive information about people, for example youth care information. It is a shame that this information is thrown out because the police have left the old domain names running like this. I'd like to get a response from the Minister to this whole thing. Was the police or the minister indeed warned by this ethical hacker two years ago that these e-mail addresses would have allowed this to happen? Does the Minister have an idea of the information and documents that have been put on the streets through this channel and this way of doing things? Other parts of the Ministry of V and J are also subject to reorganisation, for example, as a result of the revision of the judicial card and the prison system. Can the Minister explain how this type of domain name is handled anyway to prevent them from falling into the wrong hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Marcouch for his questions. This is indeed an annoying issue that has been called for before in 2015. The national police took immediate action at that time. Hundreds of domain names were then re-registered, but apparently this does not apply to all domain names. In addition, it is possible to register domain names with the word "police." As an example I mention the flavorpolitie.nl; that is a well-known domain name. For example, there are many other forms imaginable, which can create confusion among the public. I would like to point out that, last Friday, I already did so, and that the national police only use one e-mail address, the e-mail address that ends on @police.nl. The domain names we are talking about are the domain names from the time for the formation of the national police. At that time, immediate action was taken and now I have asked the Chief Constable to consider the risks of any unregistered old domain names and what technical measures, such as domain name monitoring, are still possible. It is good that the Chief Constable uses the findings and advice of these and other ethical hackers, because their critical view can contribute to the security of information exchange. This form of cooperation is, by the way, a spearhead of my ministry, which was also promoted during the Dutch presidency of the EU. In other words, the problem was known, action was taken, but apparently not good enough. I'll ask the Chief Constable what he's gonna do next, and I'll report to the Chamber on that in the progress report to national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister responds with little urgency. This issue shows that people from outside can easily break into police systems. Unauthorized people can get their hands on police information. If you're at risk of a break-in and you're being robbed, I think you're gonna be scared and you're gonna get extra and other locks right away; that you're gonna do everything you can to prevent a break-in. Surely that is the case when it comes to this kind of sensitive information? How will the Minister ensure that the domain names in which the word "police" comes back do not fall into the wrong hands in this way? Now it was an ethical hacker, but for the same reason it would have been someone with evil intentions. I hope this ethical hacker isn't punished but rewarded for what he's done. Are these types of activities such as the abuse of domain names by the police punishable? Can something be done about that? I therefore ask the Minister to ensure that these domain names do not fall into the wrong hands, but also whether it is punishable if people knowingly abuse this type of domain name and obtain information from the police. What's the Minister gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	Perhaps it would be a good thing to put right the fact that, in my opinion, there has been no burglary. Someone has created or used a domain name, whether or not an old one, and has been able to obtain information through that domain name; thus by taking action and sending an e-mail. Here too, a police officer or a chain partner must always ensure that the correct police e-mail address is used. That is a task which the Chief Constable must take on to ensure that that information is widely disclosed. This applies not only to police officers, but also to citizens and businesses. The only e-mail address used by the police is @police.nl. We will never be able to register all domain names with the word "police" in them, but we will be able to record the old domain names that have once been used by the predecessors of the national police. I will ask the Chief Constable how far that is and what measures are still being taken, because I agree with Mr Marcouch that it is undesirable that documents that are not meant for hackers, ethical hackers or anyone other than policemen should come out. The Chief Constable's gonna have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have not received an answer to my question as to whether it is permitted or punishable to use this kind of old domain names to obtain police information. That seems to me to be an important message to the people who are doing this. What will the Minister then do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'll take that into account in the progress report. I do not currently have the answer to the question of whether it is punishable. It seems to me, because you're pretending to be someone else. In my opinion, this is always in breach of the standards in our Code of Criminal Law. I just can't figure out exactly which article it's about. I will inform the Chamber about that in the progress report. It may be clear that hacking, whether ethical or not, will thoroughly examine the intentions of the person concerned. If it is ethical, I am glad, because then there is at least cooperation between people who want to cooperate in increasing digital security. If there are other intentions, then there must be strict action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Of course, it's crazy that the police apparently don't know which e-mail addresses they use and which ones they don't use. We were warned of it years ago and nothing has been done about it. Is it so hard to block a particular e-mail address you've used and that you're not going to use anymore? Then why has the government, including the national police, failed to do so by the entire government apparatus? It's a technical act. So how's that ethical hacker going now? I hear the Minister's happy there are ethical hackers. Has he gotten a flower or a cake yet? How did the Minister reward him for his good work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's not up to the minister to reward ethical hackers. I know the chief of police and the national police are talking to the person concerned. In 2015, when the first signal was given, it already happened. Afterwards, action was taken on the hundreds of domain names. I agree with Mr Van Raak that every effort must be made to minimise the risk of abuse of old domain names. But that does not eliminate the risk of using a police-like domain name. Because you'll never be able to register all of them. For the rest, I also take into account the technical question raised by Mr Van Raak in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	I was a little hesitant as to whether I wanted to ask another supplementary question, but I am doing it anyway because I think the Minister is being a little light-hearted about this. I refer to the fact that there have been schematics from Christmas markets coming out along this road. We're not just talking about an address. A number of years ago, the national police specifically indicated that this is a major risk. It's not about the taste police; it's just the Rijnmond police. I wonder why the Minister is so light about it that this still exists. What's he gonna do very quickly to make sure this can't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	I don't have the impression that my reaction can be called light. I feel the urgency as much as Mrs Van Toorenburg. I have indicated what the Chief Constable will do to ensure that the risk of this is reduced as far as possible. I also think it is very important. I have promised to report to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about an ethical hack and I agree with the Minister that you should ask yourself whether this is even hacking. It is actually still of a lower level to be able to get information from the police. So that needs to be arranged. My question is this. The cabinet has passed a law through the Chamber just before Christmas in which the police themselves have the opportunity to hack and now it appears that the same police or the top of the police, perhaps under the responsibility of this minister, is unable to make the domain names and the security of their own data as safe as possible. How does the Minister see that? On the one hand, hacking into the police themselves and on the other hand, even if the police are unable to have basic security in order. That's a strange combination, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	I don't see how that combination would be weird. I do see that this problem needs to be resolved; I agree with Mr Verhoeven. I believe that the Secretary of State has extended the exchange with Mr Verhoeven, why it is very important for the police to have the opportunities contained in the Computer Crime III Bill. I myself mention this when it comes to making it possible for the decoy to be able to do so, to which I attach particular importance. It would have been good if D66 had understood that interest as well. I am very sorry that D66 was not able to vote in favour of the law at the end of the day. However, I do not see any relationship or causal link between these two quantities.
