ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we will continue with Mr Markuszower's question on behalf of the PVV. I hope I put his name right. Yeah? Looks like it. Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, two gay men in Arnhem were severely assaulted by a group of Moroccan-Turkish youths. They were kicked and beaten, beaten up. Whether or not the shears were used, the real weapon was Islam with its boundless intolerance to everything else. They want us to conform to their medieval values system. The abuse in Arnhem is therefore much more than just violence: it is street terror, street terror against this couple, street terror against the entire homosexual community, street terror against the free Netherlands. In our view, it is a disgrace that it seems to hurt the Dutch political elite too much to name this truth about this terrible street terror in our neighbourhoods. But what hurts more, facing the truth and taking appropriate measures or getting your teeth beat out of your mouth with a bolt cutter? Now my questions. Does the Minister agree with my group that if these perpetrators do have a dual nationality, they should be denaturalised after serving a very long sentence and the country should be expelled? Does the Minister agree with my group that it is time to introduce minimum penalties, especially for these types of violent crimes, so that these perpetrators are guaranteed to go to prison for a very long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. It was a fantastic start of spring last weekend. It was fantastic weather to go out, for example with your friend to go out for a night in Arnhem and then walk hand in hand on the way back, because you love each other. In the Netherlands you can walk hand in hand if you love each other, whether they are two men, two women or man and woman, gay, straight, of any faith or nationality. That's how we do it in the Netherlands. Then we will not discriminate and violence is certainly not on the agenda. That fantastic spring weekend that we could all have enjoyed is incredibly ruined by what happened. Quite rightly, many people in the Chamber and outside the Chamber have shown: that is not how we do it in the Netherlands. Luckily, the suspects have been dealt with. The law can now take its course and the police and the Public Prosecutor are doing their job. The first is, of course, getting the facts out of hand. This action by the Public Prosecutor and the police also fits with the line that has already been deployed in the Netherlands. The line of the Public Prosecutor's Office is that discrimination is prosecuted as standard if the evidence is sufficient. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has as a line that a double penalty is then requested. The police have been working for a long time on tackling discrimination and specifically on the position of homosexuals. Good work is being done in training at the Police Academy. Good work is also being done by the Pink Network in Blue, which tries to create an atmosphere in which gays dare to report discrimination or violence. So fortunately, how terrible the occasion is over and over again, a lot of good work has been put into action. I come now to Mr Markuszower's questions. I share his indignation at what has happened, but he is getting ahead of himself in his questions, because the investigation is going on. I have also read the newspaper reports, but the investigation has to show exactly what happened and what the background of the perpetrators is. For Mr Markuszower's questions on the application of penalties, Dutch legislation does not allow for any room for manoeuvre. We are familiar with the removal of nationality in the case of terrorist offences. Then there are crimes against the security of the State of the Netherlands and there is also a direct link with nationality. However, this is not possible within the Dutch legislation on the points mentioned by Mr Markuszower. However, I am glad that this terrible case is in the hands of the police and the judiciary. The Dutch legislation also provides for the possibility of imposing appropriate penalties for this unacceptable violence against homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thanks for the answers, but frankly, I find them disappointing. Last Saturday there was an act of street terror. With the arrival of large groups of immigrants from mostly Islamic countries, acts of violence against homosexuals have increased exponentially. We should not accept this as a society. The Minister must ensure that these perpetrators are severely punished. The victims are entitled to this, and Dutch society is entitled to it. So will the Minister ensure that the law is enforced? On the basis of the current law, the D.A. can claim at least eight years in prison in this case. Does the Minister agree with my group that 14-year-old perpetrators of such a serious crime should be tried under adult law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Markuszower rightly points out that the current legislation offers the possibility of demanding severe penalties. I just indicated that the state's attorney's office is following this line, too. I have confidence in the functioning of the Dutch rule of law, in the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the functioning of judges, so I am confident that the law will run its course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Finally, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	I still don't hear what the Minister himself is going to do in this case. It is shocking to note that this minister is not prepared to adequately protect the Dutch citizen from the Moroccan street terror. The PVV demands that the Minister of Security and Justice take less care of street terrorists and instead put the safety of innocent Dutch people first. By sowing fear and hatred and intimidation, Moroccan street terrorists are destroying the Netherlands as we have built it, by committing severe assaults on innocent Dutch people, who have the right to walk freely with their beloved hand in hand. This freedom has been fought hard by Dutch people. We must never give away this freedom again and we are never going to give it away again. The PVV will continue to fight for the freedoms of innocent Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	By reading this statement, instead of going into my answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	... Mr Markuszower does not do justice to that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Then what will the Minister himself do to ensure that these perpetrators are severely punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	The answer I gave is that suspects in the Netherlands are being prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. That prosecution has been initiated; thankfully. The rule of law works, and I have faith in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Markuszower, you may make a final remark, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister did not answer my colleague Markuszower's question about adult criminal law, but he can do so if he answers the question I am about to ask. During this formation period, the party of this minister is negotiating to form a cabinet, a new government. Why does the Minister, or his party, not immediately take the PVV's idea of applying to Moroccan street scum, which is largely responsible for the increase in the number of cases just mentioned by Mr Markuszower, as soon as there is a double passport? I would therefore like to have an answer to Mr Markuszower's question. Then the Minister can answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	As far as punishment is concerned, in a rule of law, the legislature, you and the government, makes the laws. The law states that there can be severe penalties for discrimination, violence and especially for the combination of discrimination and violence. The application of that penalty, for example the question of whether adult criminal law is being applied, has been deliberately handed over to judges. Members of parliament are not judges; ministers are not judges. We'll make sure those judges do their job properly. I told you, I'm confident this will happen. Then I come to the question of formation. The PVV knows the answer to this. In the Netherlands we organise elections. Every party tries to win it. As soon as the result is achieved, each party tries to obtain a place at the formation table, for there are ideals to be realized. Some parties sit at that table and others don't. If you sit at that table, you can also realize your ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Second supplementary question by Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thanks for the Minister's tape. Because it was nothing more than a cassette tape. And you will only be homosexual in the Netherlands and get such an answer from the Minister! I repeat my question. Why doesn't the Minister take it to the negotiating table to make naturalization possible? We've brought in a big problem. That problem of abuse of homosexuals in the Netherlands is mainly a Moroccan problem. Why doesn't the Minister do anything about it? If he gives a negative answer again, I can now conclude that the next cabinet period very homosexual Netherlands does not have to count on the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	I believe that there is a huge deficit here in the use of the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the use of the police. I do not need to repeat what has happened. The suspects have been apprehended and are now in custody. Justice has its course. That's the way it's supposed to be. So the distrust that speaks here of the men and women of the police and the public prosecutor who have to do their job, I find inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	When I see how many people with a native background still react when two men walk hand in hand, I think the problem is wider. That's also something I'd like to talk about. The COC indicates that 1,500 declarations result in 9 convictions and also that when people have gathered the courage to report, there is not always a person who listens to them and who is well introduced in how you do it in a good way. So I think there is also a big problem there. We need to make sure that people are really willing to press charges. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mrs Voortman referred to the COC figures on the large difference between the number of declarations and the number of convictions based on discrimination. I know those numbers, too. It is true that convictions really do not occur relatively little on the basis of discrimination. That does not mean that of those more than 1,500 reports there have been only 9 convictions. There are also many convictions in connection with violence, because between the number of reports and the number of convictions there is always the trial of evidence for the purpose of the conviction and in practice it appears that violence is easier to detect than discrimination. That's no reason to say that it should stay that way. That is why a number of actions have been launched. The activities of police officers, united in Pink in Blue, are very important because they want to make sure that when there has been violence against homosexuals, people can report to a trusted person and get support. For the same reason, specific attention is paid to the problem of discrimination and the problem of violence against homosexuals at the Police College as well as at a wider level in the training of agents. It is not for nothing that the Chief Constable has said very recently and with my full support that the composition of police staff should be more diverse. Various has a lot of angles: male/female, native/allochtoon but also gay/hetero. That's how a lot of tracks have been set in motion. We need to stay alert. It can't be that you say, "Well, we've got a lot of policy going on, now it's done." That's not true. Actions launched offer confidence and also provide the basis for effective action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	This kind of senseless violence and this kind of hate crimes are a gross scandal and too often the perpetrators get away with it. So you have to do everything you can to increase the chances of getting caught by investing in the police. This can be done by the Chamber later on by the SP-motion in part No. 695 which is about 200 million extra for the police. Then there is my question and it is about education, because prevention is just as important. However, 20% of schools still refuse to provide information on sexual resilience, which is crucial to prevent this type of thing. Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with his colleague, to tackle these kinds of schools hard, to cut them financially or, if necessary, to close them down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Van Dijk is right that education plays a crucial role in informing about the core values of Dutch society, such as equality, including that between gay and straight. I am happy to discuss again with my colleagues in Education whether the way in which this is addressed is sufficient. That doesn't mean I'm gonna threaten you right away, which I heard a bit in Mr Van Dijk's words. This also applies: I know that a lot of schools do excellent work in this area, but we must not slacken down, so I will discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	The Minister said it so beautifully at the beginning of his answer: it was a beautiful spring evening, but it was not for these two people who walked hand in hand across the street. That is extremely sad and deserves strong disapproval. I also listened to the reading of the paper of the PVV. I would like to ask the Minister if he can explain to the PVV that in 80% of cases the perpetrator looks more like the average PVV than the Moroccan street harness, which the PVV is talking about, and that the problem needs to be addressed seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	About the figures on the background of the perpetrators of crime, specifically violence, a number of things are true. It is true that the majority of the perpetrators of homophobic violence have only Dutch nationality. However, it is also true that there is an over-representation of perpetrators with an ethnic background. Both are true. Of course, it doesn't make any difference to the prosecution. These are horrible crimes, which must be severely punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think it is very good that the Chamber pays so much attention to this. I would like to appeal to my colleagues from the PVV and DENK to sign the COC agreement, because that has not yet happened. My question to the Minister is complementary to that of the SP. It seems very good to me that in teacher training, sexual diversity should also be addressed. That should just be a mandatory part of the curriculum. There is no such attention. The Chamber has ensured that this point is in the core goals, but teachers sometimes struggle with it. I believe that we should help these teachers by expressing it explicitly in the training. Will the Minister pass this on to his colleague from Education, Culture and Science?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that it is a good thing that we are discussing this terrible thing at length. In reply to Mr Van Dijk's question, I indicated that I would discuss with my colleagues in Education whether there is sufficient attention in education to equality, specifically equality between homosexuals and heterosexuals. Have we arranged this well and is it properly applied in education? I think it is a good thing that, after consulting colleagues, she or I should come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	After another terrible incident of violence this weekend, it is good that people have risen in Dutch society and that we are doing so now in the Chamber and the Cabinet. That's a very strong signal. Next Thursday we will have a more extensive debate on racism and discrimination. I think that's very necessary. Many victims think and feel that there is no point in reporting discriminatory statements on the streets and intimidation. How are we going to break this negative spiral with all the victims who deserve that attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Van Dijk is right to say that it is extremely important that people dare to press charges. They always have to do that when they're victims, but specifically when it's related to homophobic violence, because it can also be the moment for some people to come out of the closet. In recent years, with the support of the Chamber, a large number of laws have been tabled and a large number of measures have been taken to strengthen the victim's position. Only yesterday I was allowed to present to the police the first copy of a concise, but very useful brochure, which agents now carry and hand over to the victim. Because if you're a victim, you're really off the hook, which was also the fact that you're facing. Although our policemen are perfectly capable of receiving people, they are likely to miss out on the information that they can rely on a compensation fund or a lawyer. There is therefore a very handy brochure available since yesterday, which people at home, when they are sitting on the couch, can look at again. In addition, the specific role of policemen who are themselves gay or lesbian and are part of the Pink in Blue network is extremely important, because they support victims of gay violence in the declaration and can therefore in fact, in a sense as a fellow fate, say: we understand your situation, there is no reason to be reluctant and we also really want to work on your report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	The CDA Group also needs to express its disgust at what happened this weekend. It would also like to express its appreciation for the social debate that is taking place, for the people who are taking initiatives to this end. The way in which we all react to it gives us a lot of confidence. Without wanting to enter the autonomous process of police and justice in any way, I would like to ask the following question. Next Thursday, there will be a debate on racism and discrimination. I think it would help if the factuality surrounding this case were to be on the table as much as possible. It does nothing occasionally about the case whether it was with or without a bolt cutter, it remains equally terrible. I have a feeling that if we know as soon as possible how the fork is exactly in the handle, we can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	I agree with Mr Van Dam that, in addition to the feelings of horror about what happened last weekend, there is also a sense of pride about the way in which a very large proportion of Dutch society reacts when such terrible events occur. Mr Van Dam asked a practical question about information on the latest state of play for Thursday's debate. I would like to point out that the prosecution is still ongoing, but I am willing to send a final state of affairs on the basis of the information that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office can provide. That'll be Wednesday night or Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you.
