ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, relatives of victims and indeed the whole of the Netherlands were again confronted with the foreign members of the RSJ. The Professional Commission of the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection found it necessary to release the Polish motorist who killed a married couple and their 2-year-old grandchild early. Why? To be able to be with his wife's childbirth. Amazing, painful, outrageous. It won't stop. Volkert van der Graaf, the killer of Pim Fortuyn, was also released early. But actually all convicted criminals in the Netherlands, including murderers and rapists, are released early by the Secretary of State, sometimes at the request of the RSJ. Every criminal in the Netherlands gets a third penalty discount by default. Every criminal in the Netherlands knows that he always receives more than 30% of the sentence imposed, and often more than that. Very often the justice department does a lot and obliges the condemned to wear an anklet, but everyone knows that a blunt kitchen scissors is enough to cut that anklet. The Secretary of State mumbled something that he too would have preferred to have this Polish death rower in jail for a while, but that he could not do otherwise because the RSJ had decided to do so. The Secretary of State only forgets to say that he himself and/or his VVD predecessor appointed most RSJ members himself. Will the Secretary of State dismiss the RSJ members, who are clearly completely detached from the national sense of justice? If you can't, will the Secretary of State punish these RSJ members disciplinaryly? If that is not possible, will the Secretary of State ensure that these people are not re-appointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is logical that we are standing here and it is even more logical that last weekend there has been a lot of fuss in society about the release of this person, who has the death of a girl and her grandparents on his conscience. In addition, as if it weren't bad enough, the family wasn't informed in time. Although Mr Markuszower did not ask, I would like to take this opportunity to apologize. We just changed the policy. From 1 April onwards, there is a sharper need to inform survivors in good time, but where this has been established on paper, it has not yet been completed in the work processes. That's why that didn't happen right. There's no confession for that. What goes before, of course, is the RSJ's decision to release this person early, contrary to what we have advocated. Mr Markuszower has asked me to fire the RSJ members. I do not think so, because that does not seem to me how our Dutch rule of law works. We make the rules here. The ultimate individual application lies with an independent body such as the RSJ. When it does something with the rules that we do not want, we must change the rules and not dismiss the people who bear the responsibility and put pressure on the individual decision. The RSJ could have decided otherwise. He should have done the same in my eyes. We didn't argue that for nothing. The regulation by which this comes does not say that this should be done in these cases and even says that it is not obvious to allow this to happen in an act that has shocked society seriously. The RSJ has followed an argument for me that this was not the case in this case, but I think he has now seen that society is very shocked by this. I see more in clarifying the rules, which means that in future there will be no more room for manoeuvre to make this decision than in addressing individual Members or replacing them with members who could make the same decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	RSJ stands before the Council for Criminal Application and Youth Protection, I say for those who do not know the abbreviation exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I would also like to hear whether he is not going to re-appoint Members. He didn't answer that question. I don't really understand. The Secretary of State leaks into the media that he was also against releasing the Polish death Rider. Here, too, this is being said again today. For more than a month now, the Secretary of State has been aware of this decision by the RSJ. So what did he do in the last month? What measures has he taken in the past month to prevent this happening in the future? We in the Chamber didn't see anything. Only now that it's been leaked and we're talking about it today, we hear something. What is the vision of this VVD? Does he want to do something about the RSJ? Does he want to do anything about parole? In any case, the PVV is going to do something: submit a motion as soon as possible to abolish the conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	This is the Secretary of State, not the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	Nothing leaked to the media. The media have asked how this has been achieved. The people of the Ministry have rightly indicated that we have advocated at the RSJ not to allow this interruption. That's just a neat mention, that's all. In this case, we looked at the RSJ's ruling and considered whether we could not do anything about it. Can we rebuild the case? There's also been contact with the D.A.'s office. Do we have any additional arguments? Turns out they weren't there. Then you run into a closed door at the RSJ. Mr Markuszower says: we are going to abolish the vi (conditional release). He may find that and he can, but this particular case would not have been remedied. This non-legal resident in the Netherlands is not subject to the vi-scheme. There is another arrangement for this, which we have also devised with the Chamber, based on something positive: if a non-legal resident in the Netherlands violates the law, we want to punish him a. and b. no longer see him again. That is what we have rigged this arrangement for, saying to someone: okay, you will have to spend a little less time in prison, but you will leave the country under strict conditions. Such a person will not be allowed to return to the Netherlands for longer than we could otherwise achieve. This has worked well in many other cases. I think we need to look carefully at how we can change the regime so that things like this no longer occur, but we do not throw away the whole scheme. After all, we have benefited greatly from this in the past, because we could simply get people who had been criminals out of the country and never see them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	I still do not hear an answer to the question whether the Secretary of State is going to re-appoint the RSJ members who have made such a mistake. Unfortunately, the PVV does not think all these answers are sufficient. The interests of the perpetrators prevail and outweigh the interests of the victims. That has to be the other way around. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to support us and put an end to conditional release. So I am not talking about the other arrangement he is talking about, but about conditional release. In that case, criminals always serve 100% of the sentence imposed on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Again, deleting the conditional release would not have led to another outcome in this case. We'll have to separate that. We shouldn't pretend that's a solution to the problem we're seeing right now. I think it would be wise to look with the Chamber at which adjustment is best. If you cancel the whole scheme, it'll have its drawbacks. I can explain the possibilities we have to prevent this from happening again, and then discuss with the Chamber the solution we are choosing. Mr Markuszower also asked for reappointment. I believe that a single ruling by a member of a committee such as this, or by a judge in similar cases, should not lead to a categorical ban on reappointment. I think you should weigh that in width when there's a vacancy and someone re-appointable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	The SGP has already announced here an initiative legislative proposal, and this is also reflected in the discussion of the budget for Security and Justice, in order to adapt the conditional release so that people do not automatically be released early. The Secretary of State is right to state that this is not the case again in this very special situation, because there is another specific regulation. But is he really gonna change that arrangement now? When can the Chamber look forward to proposals so that it can no longer be the case that a person's punishment in a situation such as this is not only interrupted but in fact absolved? Although it was a punishment for a very serious crime, the consequence is that he doesn't have to serve that sentence in full anymore. Will the Secretary of State now amend that arrangement? When can the Chamber see information about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	It is my intention to do so so that it can no longer be prevented. There are several ways to achieve this. I think it is right that the Chamber should be aware of the advantages and disadvantages of these ways. I'll send it to the Chamber in a few weeks before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	My reaction is in line with this. I also realize that this horrible case of the Pole, which Mr Markuszower has just spoken about, is not one-on-one equal to the question of conditional release. However, this issue is not entirely irrelevant in this matter. I tabled a motion last year asking the government to investigate. That motion was supported by the Chamber. I asked for an exact examination of whether it should still be an automatism as we now know it in our system. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about the progress of that investigation. Is there anything you can tell us about that investigation? When can we see its results?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	The investigation to which Mr Van Oosten refers is under way. I do not expect the results before the summer, but after that and not very long after that. I do not want the letter I promised Mr Van der Staaij to wait for it. I want us to be able to discuss the fix more quickly in order to prevent what has happened. Then we can discuss the investigation of conditional release as a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	To this day, this horrendous incident has unleashed a great deal. The SP believes that the outcome of what has happened is not explainable. The Secretary of State admits that, because the request for an interruption of his sentence from Poland leads to his sentence being waived after nine months of 15 months. He doesn't have to go back to prison, not in the Netherlands, but also in Poland. How can it be explained that the sentence, if imposed on a Dutchman, would result in the person concerned being released on parole after thirteen months? That's a big difference. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State is going to remove this injustice from the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	They are actually two totally different arrangements. If he had been a Dutchman, he would have been eligible for release if he had been sentenced 15 months after two thirds of his sentence. For those who are not legally resident in the Netherlands, it depends on the length of the sentence, namely whether it is longer or shorter than three years. With a sentence less than three years you get half the opportunity for that interruption. It's a possibility and not a right. Theoretically speaking, the gentleman may still have to serve his sentence, namely when he returns to the Netherlands, but I agree with Mr Van Nispen that if he stays away from the Netherlands, he will not serve the rest of his sentence. We have once devised and made this arrangement because the conditional release does not apply to non-legal residents of the Netherlands. I am thinking, for example, of a Somali pirate who is difficult to deport if you let him serve his entire sentence first. Society has an interest if he spends a little less time here in prison and leaves for Somalia with a ban on entry. He may never come to the Netherlands again and if he does, he still has to serve the sentence and extra punishment for being here illegally. I would not like to throw away the whole scheme immediately, but I would like to look again at how we can clarify the scheme. The explanatory statement already states that if society is deeply shocked by the original crime, it is not obvious to grant this interruption. I will look for the right opportunity and send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Secretary of State is right to say that the regulations are related to each other in this way, because we have amended the law and we have adopted them with the express remark that we were of the opinion that in such cases someone should not be suspended. Will the Secretary of State now continue with the RSJ with the intention that we have a structural problem if the Council does not implement the laws as we have adopted them? I would like to hear how it can be explained that this family has not been informed. We had a debate with the Minister about a month and a half ago. He said that the rules were tightened internally. The Secretary of State is now saying that the processes have not been adapted, but that is not what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	Indeed, I indicated that the rules have been tightened. I cannot say that it would have been more tidy if they had been informed, but it all went according to the rules. This has not been done in accordance with the rules anymore. The rules have been tightened. This wasn't supposed to be like this. In the case that you discussed with the Minister then, it should not have been so, but should it have been so in the sense that you could come up with that if you followed the rules. The newbake rules weren't followed here and that's just bad. It is not yet in daily practice, let me put it this way. This will help to get it in faster, but we're not buying that much for now. This is just bad. I don't like the RSJ's decision. I hate that next of kin have to go through this and that it hasn't been reported to them in time. I can only apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	I asked about the meeting with the RSJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	I'd like to talk to the RSJ, but I think it's even more important to just scorch that space. The RSJ has a reasoning. They consider, by definition, that in the case of a criminal offence which you can say the unsub did not intend to commit, there cannot be a shocked legal order. I think it's something else in practice. So I would like to explain how a shocked legal order can work, but I would rather just burn it up in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	This is the first time I've been interrupting. How does it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	If you hold the button in front of you, we'll all hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	Then I'm fine. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State something. That's why I'm here, of course. The case is clear. This Polish gentleman has escaped the dance, may I put it this way? This is because it is government policy. This interruption is intended to get him out of the country. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. It's a stick behind the door. An inventive measure in itself. At least you know for sure that an illegal person really disappears, because the interruption doesn't go in until he's gone. Well, end of story. But in this case, the Secretary of State felt it desirable to keep the Pole here. I have here the decision of the Council on Criminal and Youth Protection, in which it takes the advice given by the Secretary of State. The advice was: that Pole stays here; it is in the interests of the next of kin and the rule of law is shocked. Now I have the decision of this council and it does not show that any formal reasons for which all kinds of changes in legal systems or application are required are the basis of this decision of the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	But the question is, Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	If I understand correctly, and I ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the opinion of the Secretary of State himself has failed in substance. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is whether he is fully aware of the reasons for ignoring his request and whether that has not caused him any wonder,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	Because Mr. Secretary of State is getting the ball played himself. Is that known to the Secretary of State? The decision states that the rejection of the request for interruption of the sentence shall be ignored because it is not sufficiently substantiated. Does the Secretary of State know where it has suspended its own support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	You have more speaking time than the questioner in the meantime, but since it is the first time you have asked such a question during oral Question Time, you are forgiven. It is really intended to hold you to a 30-second speaking time. But the question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	That's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	I can reassure Mr Hiddema in general that I am always corrupted if people do not find my argument convincing, even in this case. In this case, the RSJ has written that we have not made it sufficiently clear to him that the offence committed by this gentleman has shocked society in such a way that there should not be a penalty interruption within the rules. I wouldn't have sent this gentleman to Poland by now. I would have kept him in jail even longer. That's what we said. We motivated that. The RSJ considers that this type of crime is not convincing enough to show that the rule of law is shocked and that penalty interruption should therefore be granted. I disagree. We then asked the prosecutor if we could strengthen this motivation with new elements. It would be weird if that were the case, but we asked for it to be safe and it could indeed not. That's what kept it going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	You have an opportunity for a second supplementary question, Mr Hiddema, which must be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	Very briefly. Is there any possibility that the Secretary of State may inform the Chamber of his reasons by giving his written opinion to the Board?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	To be honest, I don't know if there are guidelines for that. I tend not to do so, perhaps it has been public for a long time, and that can also be done because we do not repeat the proceedings or the proceedings we normally have with a judge or the RSJ here in the Chamber. That's where we have to argue the case and then the RSJ decides. Unfortunately, this one does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	No, Mr. Hiddema, that's it. It really was. That's it. Two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mrs. Kuik knows all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr. Chairman. We all feel sorry for this toddler's family. It is extremely sad that this nasty, terrible history is repeated at such a time. It is good that the Secretary of State has stressed that there is a discussion on how to close the gap in this law, but I do have one more question. I heard the Secretary of State say that we have already tightened the rules, so what happened here was not necessary in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	My question remains specific: if we have actually done our job, as legislators and as supervisory bodies, how could this have happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	Sometimes you think, when you write something down, that you know very clearly and exactly what you mean by it, but in this case the independent body that tests it could find more room in those words than we had put in it for its application. That has to do with interpretation. Then I think we need to write it down even more clearly so that that space isn't there anymore. I have read the regulation and it says in the explanatory statement: if the rule of law or society is seriously shocked, then you do not do this. It's not a right we've given, it's a possibility. The RSJ has said: we think that too, only in this case we do not find the rule of law sufficiently shocked, or however you want to formulate it. The Council was not convinced that it was so shocked that there should be no interruption in this case. Then I think we need to write that down even more clearly, in a way that makes the Council no longer have the room to grant it, as in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u44	Second supplementary question, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u45	The Secretary of State says that he will soon inform the Chamber in what way we can remedy these gaps and this ambiguity. This is a sensitive matter, but there may be more sensitive cases coming up in the short term. Are they provided? If so, how do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u46	At least it is now clear that those who have ever agreed to this arrangement or who have made it, we believe, that the interpretation given by the RSJ is not desirable. Last weekend, it was clearly shown that society is indeed very shocked in this case, so that may lead to a progressive understanding, if the RSJ has to weigh such an incident again and make an assessment when society is or is not so shocked that it should not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you.
