ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. Speaking time is six minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Several thousand people gathered on the Malieveld yesterday to speak out against Donald Trump, against the divisions he sows, against his discrimination against entire populations and against the fear he spreads. D66 also opposes Trump's poison and the nonsense he's spreading. D66 opposes this injustice, creating second-class citizens. D66 stands up for the freedom and values we share within the European Union. The European Union is not an ideal but an absolute necessity. That exposes Trump mercilessly with his actions. His actions show that Europe must stop its own pants, when it comes to free trade, our security, but also, for example, tackling climate change. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke earlier about Trump's 'campaign rhetoric', but what is now going on is, of course, far from rhetoric. Just see the scandalous entry ban on people from Muslim countries. The government's reaction to the entry ban was only slow. First, the Foreign Minister said on Saturday: we need to see if it is not discriminatory. The Prime Minister said yesterday that this measure could be discriminatory, but that he does not yet want to speak of discrimination. Well, no question about that: this entry ban is purely discrimination. Is the Prime Minister serious about this? What does he think discrimination is? How far should it go as far as he's concerned? I'd like a response. How is the government going to offer a powerful counter-noise...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	I will, Mr. Chairman. How is the government going to make a strong counter-sound to this president, with his ideas and measures that run counter to everything we stand for? This foreign minister often says he doesn't like megaphone diplomacy. He's very attached to surgery behind the scenes quietly. That is sometimes effective, but this new leader of the West, Mr Trump, is doing Twitter diplomacy. D66 therefore wants real and effective diplomacy where necessary. We want to free 30 million for embassies and trading posts to strengthen our diplomatic network. Does the government share that stake? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	Diplomacy, not megaphone politics, indeed scandalous that America comes up with these entry bans: I totally agree with D66. But can I also ask the response of Verhoeven to the statements of Tusk, who says: as external threats do we see Russia, China, radical Islam and America? Would D66 place America in the same line as the foreman of the EU, Mr Tusk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think Mr Tusk has said very sensible and good things. It was wise of Tusk to say that the European Union must unite and not let the division between all different interests prevail constantly, but must make one strong fist in the changing world. Mr Tusk has shown, as I have just pointed out in my own speech, that we cannot do it all ourselves in Europe with 28 countries, but that we stand together by being clear about the things that are happening in the world, both in Russia and in the United States, where an entry ban was issued. We must make clear where Europe stands and what our values are. We need to do this jointly and strongly, because then we will be much more powerful than if we do that in a divided way. Unfortunately, more and more parties in the Chamber seem to want the latter when they say: let's all do it nationally. Tusk said: let us send a European signal. That's what I'm arguing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	Tusk also calls for a European army. Mr Verhoeven is, of course, right in saying that we need to keep more of our own pants. The signals from America are also clear. That's why the Christian Union is paying 2 billion for additional investments in Defense. Does Mr Verhoeven therefore think that we can afford to put America in the same line of thinking as I have read the letter correctly? Mr Tusk listed a number of threats, first threats, external threats, and he listed the American administration with China and radical Islam. Does that help to bring America back into NATO and to prevent you and I from having to add 2 billion but perhaps 4.5 or 6 billion to the Defence budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think that the lines mentioned by various representatives are not at the heart of Tusk's speech, nor should they be at the heart of the debate we are having here. What is happening in the United States under the leadership of Trump is absolutely unacceptable, and it is also absolutely necessary for Europe to send out a united and strong signal, as Mr Tusk has also said. I also think that the changes in the world, especially the change in the American government, make it clear that Europe will have to operate more independently and more strongly in a number of areas. What almost always happens in this kind of debate is that people who are a bit more critical or sceptical about European cooperation take a statement and then make a sentence and then use it to indicate that it would not work. Let's stop doing that. Let us just look at those who say very clear things about what binds Europe, what our values are and what we stand for. Let us stand by that with all 28 Member States to make a strong fist against Donald Trump instead of opting for division by reaching a verdict. No, let us stand together against the dangerous changes that are taking place, including in the United States. We cannot tolerate such an entry ban as Trump has now declared. The appointment of President Trump has also had a significant impact on the Middle East Peace Process, and unfortunately it has not been for the benefit of President Trump. Since that Friday of 20 January 2017, Israel has approved the construction of thousands of illegal settlements. In fact, Prime Minister Netanyahu called it just a taste of what would come. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make a statement on behalf of the EU condemning the construction of these settlements in the strongest terms? The President of the European Council recalled the American motto, 'united we stand, delivered we fall', and so did European cooperation. We must also say this to Mr Voordewind when Europe is making a fist. We need to make sure we're stronger together against these sounds of Trump. We in Europe must also benefit from, for example, the protectionism that Trump is now carrying out. It's a good thing we're getting closer to Mexico. With the withdrawal of the TTP trade agreement, trading partners such as Japan are once again becoming more visible in the interests of our own economy. What will be the European strategy in this regard? Will the Netherlands actively argue in favour of this? This era of new geopolitical relations, emerging populism and increasing Euro-criticism calls for a forward-looking agenda for a more decisive and democratic European Union with greater support. Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs took an advance here last week with a piece in the newspaper, although in his own way. He spoke clearly on behalf of the Netherlands. I therefore wonder whether this is a cabinet policy. Is the Prime Minister in Malta going to argue in favour of halving the European Parliament? I'd like a response. Does the government really think that this will lead to a stronger Europe? What kind of commitment does the Netherlands have at all at this European summit for the future of Europe? The entry ban imposed by Trump is, of course, a disgrace, but the European leaders themselves also have butter on their heads. An ill-executed Turkey deal that still puts thousands of people in jail and even freezes to death in one of our own Member States. Instead of solving that and helping people on the run, Malta is going to talk about new deals and now Libya, a chaotic country without a central government and without a guarantee of human rights. Will the Netherlands go along with that? I urge the Prime Minister to do so. Make a commitment, get all hands on each other in Malta for a major mission to Greece and ensure sufficient capacity to process all asylum applications and distribute the people across Europe. Only when this is done can we seriously criticise Trump for his immigration policy. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally. Yesterday, the British House of Commons gave the green light to launch the Brexit. What is the government's commitment to guaranteeing Dutch interests and clarifying the follow-up to this process as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	D66 has said a great deal about the new US President and what D66 thinks of it. What Mr Trump is doing well is giving him credit for his eyes on the concerns of the Americans about migration. These are concerns that also live with Dutch voters. I have heard Mr Verhoeven talk about Libya, for which the European Union may find a solution. The summit is marked by the Mediterranean migration crisis, which was crossed by 180,000 people last year. What's D66 gonna do about it now? D66 always takes the moral high ground, but what solutions does D66 have for Dutch voters when it comes to migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	We have spoken on this subject countless times. D66 has always been very clear about it. We believe that the reception of people fleeing from their lives is a matter of paramount importance. We just have to do that. This can be done in a number of different ways, first and foremost through reception in the region itself. That is what is happening, for example in Turkey. D66 has never been difficult about the billions that go to Turkey to better accommodate people there. We have also always supported cooperation with countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. In addition, we need a European asylum system, in which we agree that we are catching people who are fleeing for their lives. There isn't one yet. That hasn't been settled yet. D66 is in favour of that. As far as I am concerned, that is the answer to Mr Mulder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	They're all words. Last year, 180,000 refugees came across the Mediterranean, 4,500 drowned there, and D66 says: shelter in the region. Does D66, for example, want the boats to be towed back off the North African coast? Can Mr Verhoeven mention concrete measures rather than just words?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	I can be very brief about that. D66 is prepared, both in the Netherlands and in Europe, to ensure that people fleeing here are properly received, that everyone can make an individual application for asylum and that everyone is judged on whether or not to apply for asylum. That's what D66 stands for. That is a very clear story that we have since this crisis broke out in 2015. We still have it. I think Mr Mulder is asking a bit about the familiar road. He does that out of some kind of feeling that he likes what Trump has invented. He's actually making a bit of a fuss about Trump's measures, as if we had to implement them in Europe because the citizens are concerned. D66 takes citizens' concerns extremely seriously, but there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who think it is perfectly normal to take on people who are fleeing their lives. Citizens' concerns must be taken seriously, but in this country and on this continent we can very well accommodate people who otherwise die in the country where they are. You should stand for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	Now Mr Anne Mulder feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	Well, I'm sorry about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	I was a little challenged. We have said very clearly what we think of Mr Trump's plan. We also said: take care of people's concerns and go solve them. D66 doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u16	I'm just responding to the phrase "the concerns of the people," Mr. President. A large majority in the Netherlands means that we as a prosperous country receive people fleeing for their lives. That's what the majority of this country stands for. Of course, we have to take people seriously who think: what does this mean to me? We have to think carefully about this, but we have the prosperity in Europe and in the Netherlands to do this in a good and sound way. Instead of constantly bouncing around with measures to send people away and keep them out, we should say that we have to catch people fleeing for their lives. That's what we should say!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u17	While it comes to asylum seekers, I would like to return to President Trump's executive order. It also states that in this year he will have In the United States, asylum seekers want to receive asylum seekers. But the super-rich wave states are picking up zero asylum seekers. Zero! My question to Mr Verhoeven is when his group chairman, Mr Pechtold, is going to demonstrate for the embassies of Saudi Arabia and Qatar. When are we gonna get a demonstration on the Malieveld about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yesterday there was a demonstration because the American President does not want to allow Muslims from a number of Islamic countries to enter his country. That is discrimination against a new Western leader. That was protested yesterday. If there is another opportunity to protest tomorrow, we would be standing there again. That's my answer to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u19	This clearly shows that D66 is naive and especially hypocritical. D66 shows she's just allergic to the democratically elected president of our main ally. When it comes to countries such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which want to import Salafism here, you do not give it at home, but those are the states that accept zero asylum seekers. If one thing has become clear from this reaction by Mr Verhoeven, it is that Trump's enemies are the friends of Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u20	In a discussion on the reception of people, I find the word "naïve" from the PVV to be a compliment. I think it should be very clear that D66 thinks that discrimination by people from a particular country simply cannot be categorically refused. Apparently, the PVV loves that form of discrimination. I would like to congratulate the PVV on this position, but the opinion of D66 is 180 degrees different: discrimination simply cannot be accepted. I have just told Mr Mulder what we think of refugee shelter. We are in favour of people fleeing their lives being taken in places where they are safe. That's what D66 stands for. We also represent an open society in which people are not excluded on the basis of their origins or beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u21	Tomorrow, at the Malta Summit, there are a number of concrete proposals to help people in Libya themselves with the help of the European Commission and the European Union. Can I conclude from what Mr Verhoeven said that this does not yet have the support of the D66 Group? According to D66, can there not be a Libya deal for the time being, as long as the rights of refugees are not guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u22	In debates like this, we often tend to shoot straight into black and white. I am extremely reluctant to cooperate with a country that does not even have a central government and does not guarantee human rights in any way. Retention is therefore the least we can do here. I think that the government often says very sensible things about this. For example, I agree with the government that we need to look at what we can do to help people in other places in the world by working together with the countries where they reside. As I said just now, Turkey must not, as far as we are concerned, be messed with the European Union by receiving refugees. There should also be no blackmailing with visa liberalisation. The same applies to cooperation with countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. So you have to set conditions for cooperation. I find it extremely complicated with Libya and I am very reluctant to cooperate with that country. I'd say be careful with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Voordewind!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u24	... but saying that we are never going to support it is neither sensible nor realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr Verhoeven, the answers must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u26	And probably the questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u27	And the questions, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u28	Then it looks like I'm barking at my colleagues, Mr. Chairman. And I don't want to, because I've been accused of that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u29	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u30	A very brief question, Mr President. Does the D66 group therefore believe that UNHCR should cooperate with such a Libya package if it is to be able to obtain the approval of D66? UNHCR will monitor respect for the rights of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u31	I do not think it is wise to oblige the D66 UNHCR to cooperate with a government proposal. Mr President, my brief answer would therefore be no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u32	You can... give me a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u33	But the question is whether I always want to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u35	In the interests of the debate, we sometimes need a long and sometimes short answer. It's the best thing for me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to start with the developments on the other side of the ocean, because they have a major impact on Europe and the Netherlands. It will therefore also be discussed at the European Council, the Foreign Affairs Council and, no doubt, at other meetings in Europe. Last Friday, President Trump issued a decree which included the closure of borders for 120 days for refugees in general and for Syrian refugees even for an indefinite period. Similarly, immigrants from seven predominantly Islamic countries are no longer allowed to enter the US for three months. These are Iraq, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen and Libya. There has been a storm of criticism of these measures and the SP shares this criticism. It is right to point out its discriminatory nature. Minister Koenders also stressed that character, but in a joint statement with the Prime Minister the term "discrimination" was missing. That is why I would like to hear from the Prime Minister today that he shares the analysis that President Trump's decree is discriminatory. I also ask the Prime Minister to respond to the rather firm statements made by EU President Tusk who condemns the US President's first actions as a threat to the European Union. Tusk even goes so far as to align the Tromp administration with Russia, China and the conflicts in the Middle East. Does the Prime Minister share that analysis? Trump's discriminatory measures cause human suffering for passengers stuck at airports, for example at the Dutch airport Schiphol. There was some attention for Iranians who couldn't travel on. I ask the Prime Minister if these stranded people have a good image with the authorities. How is it possible that there would have been insufficient care for these people? An older couple who stranded at Schiphol Airport didn't even get enough to eat. Apparently, decent care isn't here. How is that possible? Last Wednesday's Volkskrant contained an article stating that people from the seven countries might still be able to fly to the US because not all states would adhere to Trump's policy, which is called here and there un-American. Can the Prime Minister respond to that, too? Minister Koenders reported yesterday that the Netherlands has provisionally stopped negotiations with the US on American border controls at Schiphol. My group welcomes that. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that such negotiations can only be resumed once Trump's measures have been withdrawn? The election of Trump also has serious consequences for the Palestinians. Israel seems to think that in the illegal settlements all the brakes can now be lifted. The U.S. doesn't condemn it anyway. Thousands of new houses will be built to make a viable Palestinian state de facto impossible. Can the Prime Minister respond to this? What proposals does the Netherlands make to call Israel to order? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the announced expansion of illegal settlements in Palestinian territory should give rise to consideration of the recognition of the Palestinian State? If Israel continues to build in Palestinian territory, recognition will come too late, then that will no longer be possible. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the SP finds it reassuring that the cabinet maintains its position that statements or meetings concerning BDS, boycott, disinvestment and sanctions against Israel are protected by freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. Let us not criminalise that. Then I have one more question about Egypt. There is an NGO law in the making that further restricts the area of civil society and effectively destroys the independence of such organisations. Is the Foreign Minister prepared to draw attention to this and condemn this law in clear terms? A deal with Libya seems to be getting closer now that Tusk, Juncker and the Maltese President Muscat have said that the EU's core values are seriously at risk if the influx of refugees to Italy is not stopped before the summer. Does the Foreign Minister share that view? 90% of the migrants reaching Italy come from Libya. That is why we want to build a protective wall. Libya is a country where refugees live in inhumane conditions in detention centres, where torture is also taking place. Apart from the question of whether the Libyan Coast Guard is capable of limiting migration flows, smuggling of human beings would be seen as a welcome source of income. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? If so, how is this practice being combated? The question remains whether we can do business with Libya at all. Is that justified? What about who? Is it true that EUR 200 million will be made available by the European Union to strengthen the Libyan Coast Guard in terms of both training and equipment and that the Member States will have to recoup another EUR 200 million? How is the Libyan Coast Guard's EU training mission going? Does the Foreign Minister share the view that safe and sound reception should be an absolute condition before new agreements or a deal can be reached? Does he recognise that we cannot send people back to Libya at the moment, that a deal cannot be discussed at the moment and that the Prime Minister cannot therefore support what is stated in the conclusions? And how does the Minister respond to the report prepared by German diplomats in Africa, who conclude that the camps for migrants in Libya look like concentration camps from World War II? I like to get a reaction. During the World Economic Forum in Davos, the Prime Minister once again used great words about the future of the European Union. He said: leave the romance of the step-by-step pursuit of a European superstate, because that is the fastest way to dismantle the European Union. It could have been my own words, but we know by now that the Prime Minister, especially when it comes to the European Union, sometimes says one thing but does the other. Words have their meaning. That's why I have the following questions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to speak out against the report of the five presidents, which cannot be seen as anything other than an advocacy to the same superstate? And is he prepared to take a light-years distance from the draft report by Guy Verhofstadt, the party colleague of the VVD in the European Parliament, in which he advocates European finance and foreign ministers, a defence union and a European government instead of the current Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. In recent days, my group chairman, Mr Klaver, put oral questions to the Prime Minister about President Trump's Muslim ban and the somewhat limited response of the Dutch Government to it. The Prime Minister was not there, so we had the debate with the Foreign Minister, who, fortunately, gave very clear answers, which we appreciated. But the questions were addressed to the Prime Minister. It is precisely from the Prime Minister, from our head of government, that we expect leadership when it comes to such a serious issue. One of our most important allies, the most powerful country in the world, icon of freedom and civil rights, is suddenly throwing down fundamental values. It is precisely then that we expect a very clear position from our Prime Minister, but it came late and was relatively weak. The Prime Minister said earlier: we give a democratically elected President every chance, because we work from common values. I didn't understand what values that could be. Trump was already campaigning on the basis of discrimination, sexism and harassment. Those common values will not have been. Before his election he did it with words, after his election he did it with deeds, with decrees. Of course, among leaders of Western countries, you initially assume a certain acceptance of shared values, the Prime Minister said. What reason did he see for that in Trump's campaign? We didn't see it. We have seen from Mr Trump only from the outset a great kick against all these values. Does our Prime Minister now put his head in the sand or, as often happens, does he see what is actually happening too late and reacts to it late and economically? We saw that at the Ukraine referendum, we saw that in the reception of Syrian refugees and we see it now again. First we hear condescending words "it'll be okay" and then he comes into action too late. The Muslim ban is an attack on our values and a violation of the Refugee Convention. The EU Member States must act unanimously. This has now been done in the sense of very clear and clear reactions from Mr Tusk and Mrs Mogherini. Can the Prime Minister now make it clear that he fully supports these harsh statements and that the Dutch Government is on that side of the line? Are we doing much better in the European Union now than Trump? Yeah, on a number of things, yeah. But when it comes to how we deal with refugees, it is not good, certainly not good enough. Building walls does not only happen in the US, but it also happens in Europe. We know a fortress America, but we also build a fortress Europe. Tusk, Juncker and the Maltese Prime Minister Muscat are talking about a protection wall against Libya. A protective wall? Well, at least it will not protect refugees and it will certainly not contribute to any solution. The German ambassador in Niger has written a report on the appalling conditions in which people in Libya are trapped in refugee camps. He compares that to concentration camps from World War II. At the same time, the German minister De Maizière says that boat refugees must be dragged to a safe place in North Africa. What safe place is that? Does our government have any idea? Does our Prime Minister support the idea of making a deal with totally unstable and unsafe Libya? I can't imagine. What would be a safe place? In any case, European policy must focus on the causes and on the humane reception of refugees. The US refugee resettlement programme is being halved. Obama had just raised it to 110,000. That is very little in relation to the hundreds of thousands of people entering the EU irregularly. But if you compare it with the European resettlement programme and convert it into the number of refugees per capita, then the European Union should not have 10,000 reinvestors by 2015, but around 175,000. If we believe that Obama was doing the right thing for resettlement, we could conclude that the EU should regularly resettle 150,000 to 200,000 refugees per year. Are we gonna take care of that now? Will the Prime Minister be committed to this in a European context? The UNHCR believes that 1.2 million people should be resettled, but countries worldwide do not yet want to take an eighth part. Will we, as the EU, really accept our responsibility and our fair share in the reception and solution of the refugee issue? My party is strongly in favour of cooperation with African countries on migration. I mean the African countries whose citizens will not have the right to asylum here. You must, of course, get to work on that and ask them to take those citizens back. Of course, we will have to do so well and smoothly in the asylum procedures. Another thing is that in migration pacts, you use the development money as some kind of blackmail tool. Well, that's what it looks like now, isn't it? Can the Foreign Minister confirm that development cooperation is never linked as a condition to concluding such a migration deal? That is unfair to these countries. Of course, in compacts like that, you shouldn't record that transit countries have to re-record people who don't come from there. That would mean that we could perhaps ship Mali with migrants from Chad, Niger and you name it. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Could the Dutch Government make a commitment to fair migration deals and not to the unfair ones, as it now appears? Finally. Would the Dutch Government also make an effort to ensure that the EU-wide development money is actually spent on development cooperation rather than on extra border surveillance? If we want and must do so, we will have to do it differently, but not out of development money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a powerful statement, I thought, namely: I'm going to fall into the house with the door. But all of a sudden I realized that what I'm about to bring up is a lot like a repetition of moves. That's not a good sign. It indicates that there is a lot of pushing and pulling on this dossier, in the area of the future of Europe, and that there is much that continues to cause concern. Our concerns about ever-increasing and continuing European integration will be well known. It seems that we have made virtually no progress. There is absolutely no move towards a more limited and reformed EU. On the contrary, that inland waterway vessel Europe is moving at full speed and in a dense fog of unwillingness and denial. There is reluctance to take the concerns of many citizens seriously and to restrict the power of EU bodies. And there is denial of the problems that come to light in the shorter and longer term with ever-increasing integration. Because what do we see happening? New plans for a strengthened and deepened EU are constantly emerging from Brussels. Concretely, the European electoral act needs to be reformed, there are plans for a European Public Prosecutor's Office and there are ideas about a European Finance Minister, a European Foreign Minister, a defence union and an associated membership. And even there, it doesn't stop. If it is up to EU rapporteur and president of the ALDE (Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe) Verhofstadt, EU treaties will no longer have to be approved by all Member States! If that were to continue, then you would even be bound by an EU treaty if the national parliament were against it. Verhofstadt also wants to transform the European Commission into a government that is only accountable to the European Parliament and a kind of parliamentary assembly. Do you know what the SGP Group thinks all this means? A flagrant undermining of the democratic legitimacy of the EU. This is the shortest way to losing the EU's support for good. This process leads to the disintegration of the EU, but it is blinded at European level. This process is a step towards a European superstate that does not reflect political, economic and cultural differences of centuries and proof that internal tensions within the EU and concerns of Eurocritical citizens are not really taken seriously. In the end, therefore, the plans represent a fundamental threat to the EU as such. I'd like to link two small question clusters to this. Firstly, the SGP asks the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to take a firm stand against these plans. Are they prepared to do so? Both Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Koenders have indicated on several occasions that Europe needs to be more modest and that the concerns of EU citizens must be taken seriously. What are they going to do in this consultation to counter this usurpation by EU bodies? And what opportunities does the government see for changes to the institutional EU system in the context of the Brexit? What are the Dutch role and influence in the negotiation process with Great Britain? Moreover, how does the Netherlands prevent the Dutch industry from becoming a victim of a hard Brexit? Then I come to one of the most popular themes of this debate: Trump. As far as he's concerned, I can be brief. Let us, as the Netherlands, continue to take a constructive attitude towards the United States. We must be positively critical, as far as we are concerned. The SGP is not without criticism when it comes to the new president's performance, but it is also not without a lot of anti-Trumps sentiments. We call for the US Government to continue its realistic assessment of its actions. I continue to be amazed at the indignation at what is called the "Muslim Ban." I understand some of that indignation, but I am particularly surprised at the selectivity of that indignation. We are responding to a ban on entry which is justified by the American side, but I do not see the arguments on which it is based coming back in any way in the sense of: how real is that now? It's all about failed states, about failing states. When I look at entry bans that have been in force for years for people with Israeli passports, I have only heard a deafening silence. This kind of observation means that you must at least take a somewhat sober position. Of course you have your opinion on that. Of course, through diplomatic channels, especially through diplomatic channels, you can make your contribution, but let us continue to approach it soberly and try to influence decision-making in this way. That is more sensible than noble but selective indignation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u39	You've finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u40	Yes. I thought this was enough power for some serious interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u41	I always know the SGP as very straight forward, except when it comes to these kinds of points. Then suddenly I get a lot of wooliness from Mr Bishop. He then turns around and others would show selective indignation. All this may be true, but what is the position of the SGP Group on this Muslim ban of Trump? Does Mr Bishop support this or does he clearly distance himself from it as a discriminatory measure? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u42	To be clear: a collective blockade will never have our consent. I'm not sure that's sufficiently clear. I'd like to add one more thing. At the same time, you have to keep weighing up the arguments that lie underneath. I don't hear anyone arguing against Trump and his Muslim ban, that it's about failing states and about America's security. I can imagine that from this point of view we are looking for measures. Then I would say: let us, as friendly states, as a friendly continent, remain in talks with the President, with America, and in that way look for ways to reduce and eliminate the discriminatory elements contained in it. That seems more fruitful to me than an angry demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u43	At first it seemed as if I was going to get a real concrete answer from Mr Bishop, but then he's going to put a whole cloud around it again, up to and including his statement about failing states. There is a great deal to be said about Iran, but I would not call it a failing state, according to normal definitions. Does the SGP Group now believe that the Muslim ban is a discriminatory measure that cannot be tolerated? That's my question. I would like to hear a yes or no from Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u44	I understand that it is difficult for GroenLinks to recognise a clear and clear answer in an answer that requires some nuance. I'm sticking to my answer. The answer is that there are certainly discriminatory elements in it and that we strongly reject them without any nuances. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the motivation for such a measure. It doesn't fall out of the sky. Let us beware of one-sidedness in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u45	I agree with Mr Grashoff that Mr Bishop needs a lot of words to make something clear, but that it is still not quite clear. I would like to give him once again the opportunity to clarify that. I think he can say very clearly that it is a discriminatory measure, but that the United States has every right to secure its borders, but that other measures are also open to it. Wouldn't that be a much better way? Can the SGP not say clearly that, just as it is not allowing Israelis in a number of countries, this is simply a discriminatory measure, but that each country is, of course, free to take measures that guarantee its own security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u46	This gives me a good opportunity to underline my first answer. This was precisely the intention of my first answer. I'm sorry that didn't come across clearly. It is a measure which is discriminatory because of its collective character. You can't accept that, and we don't accept that, and we don't talk that right. But at the same time the nuance that I have first and second applied remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'm looking at something else. That nuance should be more in the effectiveness of a measure. Each country is entitled to do so if there are certain indications or indications. But because of the collectivity of this, there is no question of this in this case, so as far as I am concerned, there would be no need for a nuance in your first answer. But of course it is entirely up to you to think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u48	I think we're not far apart from each other in terms of content. I had one more point about migration, but I could possibly do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u49	If it's a brief addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u50	Then I still have to ask for a minute. I see I'm out of time. I always object to that. So apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u51	You will have the opportunity to finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u52	You're great! But of course, we already knew that. Then the migration. The SGP relies on good cooperation with the Libyan authorities. To prevent people from being lost at sea when their boat sinks, a coastguard is needed that does not act as a ferry service but as a rescue service. Is that enough? In order to prevent people from getting into boats at all, it is also necessary to focus on domestic stability and on the proper treatment of refugees in Libya. What is being achieved in concrete terms by strengthening political stability? Is there sufficient attention within the migrant camps to the plight of vulnerable groups, such as Christians? And does the government not consider that agreements with Libya on the return or readmission of migrants are a basic condition for an effective approach to migration issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u53	Thank you. That wasn't even a minute, so it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr. Chairman. While the European Union continues to be powerless in the migration tsunami and therefore continues to drown us in the tidal wave in which many future welfare workers, criminals and terrorists are involved, the President of the United States has taken action. I must mention that today is a big holiday in the United States. It is Groundhog Day; the day of traditional celebration that the end of winter is near. That's right, because with Trump's plans, that left-wing winter, where Obama had plunged that land, will soon be over. Unfortunately, in the Netherlands we still have to wait until 16 March. I shall now focus on the temporary restrictions on entry for nationals of about seven countries. That's a sovereign decision of the American president. He has every right to make such a decision as he considers necessary in the interests of the safety of his own nationals. According to a recent Rasmussen Report poll, a majority of US voters support him in that too. Nor is it a unique or unheard of decision. In 1979 President Carter had already introduced a visa stop for Iranians. The American refugee programme has also been frozen for three months by President Bush Jr. President Obama has also made the entry of citizens from Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Syria, Libya, Somalia and Yemen considerably more difficult in recent years. President Trump has tightened Obama's measures to a categorical entry ban of often limited duration. That's what our government thought. President Trump gives priority to what he considers essential for the safety of his own subjects. Not only does he have the right to do so, but he is, of course, also obliged to do so. After all, he is their president and not that of the Iranians, the Iraqis, the Sudanese, the Syrians, the Libyans, the Somalis and the Yemeni. It is quite presumptuous that is a left-wing hobby to demand that he subordinates the safety of his own country. Our government should also put the security of our country's inhabitants above all else. However, our government lets undocumented foreigners, who we don't know anything about, just enter in large numbers and walk freely in our country. Are there terrorists in there? If that's the case, apparently our government doesn't think that's a problem. In any case, our government does not consider it worthwhile to guarantee your and my safety by preventing undocumented aliens from coming in and locking down those who have come in until we are sure that they do not pose any security risk. Our Prime Minister and our government would rather stand up for all those uninvited illegals and lucky seekers in our country than for the safety of our own citizens. Then I say: give me Trump's approach, rather than that of the nightmare that may still be called our government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u55	I think we all have the "groundhog feeling" of this rehearsal album of the PVV right now. I expected Mr De Roon to take the opportunity to respond to the rather destructive response that Minister Koenders gave to his group chairman last Tuesday. Minister Koenders was able to prove convincingly and gradually that Trump's measure is not only discriminatory and puts human rights aside, but is also counterproductive and will only encourage hatred against America and the motivation of terrorists. Could Mr De Roon respond to that? After all, we have not yet heard a reply from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u56	Terrorists do not need encouragement in their hatred at all. They hate us, and that's why they're terrorists. There is therefore no need for the encouragement which the Foreign Minister spoke of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u57	Terrorism must be combated in all kinds of ways. You have to keep an eye on who's coming into your country. You have to keep an eye on what's going on in your own country. Let us remember just as well that most of the attacks that have been committed in recent years have been committed by homegrown terrorists. So we have to be active on all these fronts, but the last thing we can use is giving the Islamic recruiters tools in our hands, making it even easier to recruit people. I'm reading something that's been published on IS websites over the last few days. IS praises the American president and calls him "the best caller to Islam." They call the travel ban he imposed "the injured ban" and compare it with the invasion of Iraq in 2003, which turned out to be the ultimate means of recruiting people for the jihad. Can Mr De Roon respond to that? How pleased is he that he is standing next to Mr Baghdadi in Raqqa with Trump's prize?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u58	What the Labour Party spokesperson is now reading here is the ultimate proof of how stupid it is to give space to Islam in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u59	This really is not an answer to the question. You can go against a religion here; that is very easy and, by the way, very wrong, but look at the substance of how this measure works counterproductively against what we are all fighting against here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u60	That's all bullshit. The people who have something against Western society and western freedoms and want to commit terrorism are already in our country. We shouldn't have them here. The story you're reading here doesn't go far. That doesn't cut at all. Those are Islamic talk, but I don't have a message. The point is that Islam, which is not a religion, but a political ideology that strives for world domination, should not be given room here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u61	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u62	I note that this is simply not an answer. It is extremely difficult to debate questions if they simply do not address them in substance. I hope to hear from Mr De Roon on exactly which people are in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u63	Those are those who are inclined to commit terrorism. There has been a case for action against the United States here and there by left-wing wanderers. That is, of course, the dumbest thing our government could do at the moment: smear our main ally against its hair because it does what it considers necessary in the interests of the security of its own country. Trump is not Rutte or Koenders: he will not bow to nonsense from left-wing warheads about their norms and values. His standards and values, the safety of the Americans first, prevail. He's just right about that. The suspension of discussions on the US pre-inspection at Schiphol Airport is, of course, also a foolish reaction. This particularly affects the tens of thousands of Dutch people who travel to the US and benefit greatly from being checked at Schiphol Airport instead of being in a long queue in the US for immigration control. Moreover, the suspension which our government has apparently decided will not change President Trump's position on what he considers necessary for his country's security. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? The informal European summit tomorrow will discuss the future of the European Union. In the meantime, the people of the United Kingdom have decided that there is no future with the European Union, at least not a good future. The Dutch government does not share that view. At the European Summit, it wants to focus on strengthening the focus on the application of European decisions. Now the United Kingdom in the European Union has always been smarter than the Netherlands. This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that the United Kingdom has never been so stupid as to open up its own borders without any concern. In the meantime, the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, has also admitted that the flow of migration seekers, which has disrupted Europe at all levels, will last for many years to come. He sees no other solution than to continue to show what he calls openness and solidarity. This attitude shows how far the urophils are away from the citizens. The European Commission wants to counter bad things that happen in the Mediterranean with lucky seekers who want to travel through Libya to Europe with a EUR 200 million plan. The intention is that the European Member States will also add a further EUR 200 million. Don't do it, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Don't do it. This plan will depend on the cooperation of Libyan authorities in its implementation. I would like to know from the Prime Minister what Libyan authority actually has the authority over the entire territory of Libya. This is, of course, a rhetorical question, because no one has authority over the whole territory. So which local Libyan partners, according to the Prime Minister, should be involved to cooperate? Can the Prime Minister indicate what opportunity there is to bring the plan even to the start of implementation? How does he estimate the success rate? What are the chances that the influx of happiness seekers through North Africa will end with this plan? I'd estimate that odds are 0%. A much better plan is, of course, not to let the occupants of that migratory Flotilla set foot on European soil, but to return them directly to the Libyan beaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. This is a special debate. It is about the informal European summit, the ISD and the actions of the newly elected US President, as this debate has been requested. It is very important for the EU to keep a cool head and show decisiveness at the moment. Sit still and do nothing is not an option. Let me start with migration. The EU now seems to be focusing on North Africa under Malta's presidency. There is every reason to do so, because large numbers of migrants are moving from Libya on shaky boats towards Europe. An EU-Libya migration deal would be in the making. The plans sound ambitious, but the question is how realistic they are. Everything is being hung from an effective unitary government, which is not there. The German Minister for the Interior called for the boats to be sent back and for asylum applications to be made from certain places in Africa. The CDA supported this plan with the Keijzer motion. The Secretary of State for V and J indicated to embrace this motion. The question is what the cabinet does with it, because there is nothing about it in the annotated agendas. In addition, many African countries refuse to take their own nationals back. This is contrary to the Cotonou Treaty and the Valletta process. Even Mali does not do that, a country where we operate with a lot of military personnel and where we give a lot of development aid. In particular, the EU has the root to come up with migration deals. Is the EU also prepared to use the stick? Will the Prime Minister plead for this? I'll be on the Brexit. Slowly it becomes clear what the British want: a new global Britain. It seems like an outdated thought in the globalized world, but it is a thought that is back on the world stage, on our continent, but also across the ocean. Although the question is whether the open world economy allows such ambitions, it is a fact that the British have come to live in a new reality. And Europe too, at least in part, will have to go along with this reality. If I have listened carefully to Prime Minister May's speech, a model such as the Norwegian or Swiss is not the starting point for the British. We are starting negotiations on the Brexit carte blanche. Then the EU must know what it wants. It is remarkably quiet on this point, and that is what our group is concerned about. How do we get clear what the 27 EU Member States want? How do we defend the Dutch interest in this? How is the House of Representatives also involved? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. So far, the cabinet has not wanted to take a position on the Brexit, because rulers want to wait. The speech of Prime Minister May of 17 January in which she mentions twelve points of interest to the British is also important for the Netherlands. Our group is asking the cabinet to respond as soon as possible to these twelve points and to the Dutch interest in them. If necessary because of the negotiations, this can of course be done in confidence, but it is now time for the Chamber to be informed of our government's views. The government had promised that the Chamber would have access to the Dutch government's commitment to the EU-27 negotiations, but the answers were not forthcoming. We do not want to be put before facts; hence this urgent request. Then I come to the situation in the United States. It creates a lot of uncertainty, not only here, but also in the United States itself. I understand that. There are many questions about the position of the new President with his government vis-à-vis, for example, the UN, the EU and NATO. The many and often contradictory reports about and movements of the newly elected President are simply a consequence of this. "America First" should not become the addition "Netherlands Second." It is about the more fundamental question of what binds us. How can we tackle the issues of today, such as insecurity, radical Islam, instability, climate change, refugee problems and poverty together? We traditionally cherish the transatlantic bond, as co-founders of NATO. During my visit to the US last week on the occasion of NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I was able to speak to many members of the US Congress. Each one they say to cherish this band. It is worth a lot to us to maintain this economic, military and cultural relationship. But you also have to be honest with friends of mine. The world is changing. We have to change. The issues are becoming more complex, but as far as we are concerned there is no room for discrimination, racism and exclusion. As far as we are concerned, no concessions are made. Strong measures because of the threat of terrorism are certainly understandable, but the entry ban is a measure that is not right. It is right that the cabinet has spoken against this. Our group supports the government's efforts to ask the United States for explanations together with Germany. In the meantime, some sharp edges seem to be removed from the measure. Our group calls on the cabinet to keep the Chamber closely informed of developments and also to monitor the unity of government policy. Yesterday, we saw the Deputy Prime Minister as a protester on the Malieveld; just as unattainable pending the law he has put forward as a PvdA list leader. Can we guard that unity of government policy? I urge the Prime Minister to do so. Another worrying point is the relationship between Trump and Putin. Trump would like to exchange sanctions for the non-proliferation of the nuclear weapons deal. This could seriously harm the EU's sanctions policy. Of course, in the long term, we will have to seek a normalization of relations, but then there will also have to be a movement on the Russian side. As far as we are concerned, after the illegal annexation of Crimea, there is no momentum for alleviating or lifting sanctions. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister, partly in the light of the contradictory noises that are reaching us on this issue. The CDA is deeply concerned about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Under Obama there was a stalemate. Under Trump, the prospect of a two-state solution is in danger of really crumbling. For the third time, Prime Minister Netanyahu has announced the construction of new settlements. What does the EU do? High Representative Mogherini mentioned the construction of the 2,500 homes on the Westbank in her statement of 24 January "deeply regrettable." The EU only regrets this large-scale illegal settlement construction. These new facts on the ground which are detrimental to the peace process and the prospect of a two-state solution should, in our view, be strongly condemned. Is the Minister prepared to insist on that? What role does he see for himself within the EU context, as that is the platform on which this should be done, in order to move forward and send out a stronger signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr. Chairman. "We must not deny the freedom we desire for ourselves." That statement comes from the well-known Abraham Kuyper, former prime minister and reformed foreman. Unfortunately, the new American president, Trump, has decided to ban people from America on the grounds of their faith and nationality. He also decided on a temporary refugee stop. Internationally and also here in the Netherlands, there is justified indignation about this and there are concerns about it. I ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with the European foreman Tusk, who placed America in the list of threats to Russia, China and radical Islam. Does this help to normalize the relationship with the United States? A little self-awareness of Europe is fine, but I would ask the Prime Minister if it is wise to push the differences that already exist. We want Europe to abide by its principles, as laid down in the Refugee Convention. The Prime Minister said some good things about this yesterday. These dictate that you don't send people back to an unsafe country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mr Voordewind just said the same in an interrupting debate with, I believe, Mr Verhoeven of D66, but Mr Tusk did not say this. He has warned about a number of developments, but he has not placed the United States, a loyal ally, in the list of ISIS. I would have found that absolutely undesirable. Perhaps Mr Voordewind can correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u67	I kind of quoted him literally. I didn't mention ISIS. I mentioned radical Islam. If Mr Knops takes the letter, he can see that Mr Tusk mentions external threats. He calls Russia and China, but also the American administration. So I can only say that he sees America as a threat, in the context of the threats that are now coming towards Europe. Maybe he meant it differently, but that's how I read it in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u68	I advise Mr Voordewind to take the letter. This image has been paged in the media. I was triggered by it at first. I took the speech and he won't say it. He mentions a number of threats, an external threat, the broad geopolitical situation, and an internal threat, nationalism, anti-EU sentiment and the disintegration of Europe. He does not mention the United States in the list of radical Islam or IS. I think it would be a good idea to examine Mr Tusk's text as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u69	Then I must ask Mr Knops to read the sentence further. In the first paragraph, he does indeed run into the American administration. Although he does not mention President Trump by name, he does mention the administration of America. Then he continues on to a second threat and a third threat. I fully agree with Mr Tusk when he says that Europe may have to take more responsibility. If, however, he means that Europe must become a superstate and there must be further federalism of Europe and a further expansion of Europe's tasks, I think that Mr Bishop has just given a number of examples of this, I wonder if Mr Tusk himself is not a threat to Europe's support. I assume we have the CDA on our side here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Voordewind was just talking about "quoting a little bit literally." There's no such thing. You're quoting literally or you're not quoting literally. In his second interruption to me, he was literally talking about ISIS. I don't think it's meant to be, but he did say it, so it would be nice if he straightened that out. He certainly compared Trump to ISIS, as if Tusk had said so. That went a little further than the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u71	I just didn't mention it in my text. I've got the text right here. I might have mentioned ISIS in an interruption. I don't know if you're very far from ISIS when you're talking about radical Islam. In formal terms, however, Mr Verhoeven is right: there is no literal IS. However, the radical Islam is in the same row, so I give Mr Knops once again. I hope that Mr Verhoeven does not feel comfortable with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u72	I am not Mr Tusk's spokesman, and we have nothing to say about what is said. I would like to talk about the point that it says: the change in Washington puts the European Union in a difficult situation, with the new administration that seems to attract the 70-year tradition of American foreign policy in question... in doubt, I am trying to translate it. The question is, what's wrong with that sentence? It is simply a fact and an excellent analysis that this calls for an answer from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u73	Indeed, it calls for a response from Europe, but Mr Tusk outlines three threats to Europe: populism, internal divisions and external threats. In that paragraph, he explicitly mentions the US administration. I can't make it prettier or worse: he calls America himself in the list of external threats. Mr Servaes cannot agree with that, as I hope. Perhaps we can agree with Mr Tusk, who says: Europe must realise that we may have to stop our own pants more when it comes to security. I hope that the Labour Party will then include in its electoral programme the 5 billion needed if we are to really distance ourselves from America and in Europe no longer depend on the defence of the Americans in the NATO context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u74	The question is what proposals the Christian Union is so concerned about, as Tusk also calls them. They are all about security, about our borders, about a stronger foreign policy and about defeating terrorism. In my view, we all agree that the European Union must make a stronger commitment to these matters. Then what's the point of setting up an image that Tusk wants to make a flight forward? I heard the fellow Member of the SGP say that and bring in all kinds of other things. Here there are concrete proposals of what we have been asking for together for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u75	Further on, Mr Tusk, the foreman of the EU, presented his proposals for further integration of Europe. That's consistent with the Five Presidents' Report. There is a whole pride of very difficult expansions of Europe's power, including a European army. I found the line in the article submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, present here, very sensible. I hope that the Labour Party will support that line of Mr Koenders. Mr Koenders said that Europe should not expand further, but that we should return to the core tasks. We are on the same lines with this Minister of the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the Turkey deal, in which the Christian Union has always had great reservations. There are now dozens of asylum seekers in the Dutch azc's who have fled because of threats from the Erdogan regime, because they may have something to do with the Gülen movement. This shows just how unstable the situation in Turkey is at the moment. Does the Prime Minister still think it is justified to return refugees to current Turkey? I'm coming to the Libya deal. We have had a whole range of measures, which will be discussed in Malta tomorrow. Let me think constructively and not immediately say that I am against a Libya deal. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do on slippery ice, but I'm gonna do it. A number of measures are very much to be considered. The Christian Union, of course, also believes that these drownings should be prevented in the Mediterranean. So we need to think constructively about this with each other. But under what circumstances would this deal be wise? I assume that we can get along with the Foreign Minister. Does the government agree that UNHCR should be allowed to take responsibility for the reception of refugees? We are receiving reports from Amnesty International and other human rights organisations that the refugees in Libya are now really being treated as criminals, that they are being abused. Surely we cannot accept this when we start thinking about seriously receiving and helping refugees in Libya. In short, my question is: can the UNHCR be placed in a position where it can take full responsibility, and not as in Turkey, where it cannot take full responsibility from the Turks? Shouldn't there also be security for these reception facilities? We know that there are several militias operating in Libya. If that security doesn't get there, those camps still won't be safe from external threats. Therefore, should there not be more capacity for UNHCR in cooperation with EASO to make the selection and security screening take place there, so that the most vulnerable refugees can be relocated across Europe? We know that most migrants who are now waiting in Libya to make the transition are not real refugees. They're economic migrants. That's another problem. The majority are economic migrants. Suppose we would be able to select them out there and support IOM to bring these people back humanely. That leaves the most vulnerable refugees. I even believe that I can agree with Azmani's plan, which says: let us be open to resolution at the moment when a good selection has taken place at the external border, even in Libya. So let's look at UNHCR in broad-haired terms and see how much we could absorb when it comes to the most vulnerable refugees. We must note that the refugees who have now taken those unsafe routes are not usually the most vulnerable. Should Europe not be prepared to commit itself to allowing some of the refugees who are now in Libya not to come to Europe via those boats but to come to Europe via safe routes, even though they are screened and distributed across Europe? I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's response to this. In the view of the Christian Union, it would only be justified to invest in Libya if the rights of refugees were genuinely guaranteed there. I would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. I shall consider a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr. Chairman. Almost all political parties fall over each other in condemning the US entry ban. We haven't seen anything else on public television for days. There are even cabinet members who are demonstrating between the Palestinian flags against our main ally. The political elite is imbued with hypocrisy. For where was their indignation at the fact that 16 Islamic countries have been refusing Israeli citizens for decades? We don't hear them because it doesn't fit into their own left-wing agenda. VNL believes that the decree is primarily an internal matter for the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u77	There is no misunderstanding about this for the umpteenth time in this House about discriminatory action by a number of Arab countries not to allow Israeli citizens. A few years ago there was a Vitesse player who wanted to go to training camp in the United Arab Emirates with his club but was not allowed there. My party, both my group and the Foreign Minister, strongly condemned that at that time. Every time such a situation occurs, I will strongly condemn it. I also had it in my speech to say this later from the Chair. My question to Mr Bontes is therefore not to insinuate that we would not do so. If he finds that discriminatory, I ask him to call this measure by US President Trump discriminatory in the same way. Because if he doesn't, he's a hypocrite himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u78	I'm not doing that. I do not call this measure discriminatory. I see it as a Trump security measure. However, I find it scandalous that, for example, Minister Asscher, who is the Deputy Prime Minister, is demonstrating between the Palestinian flags on the Malieveld. What kind of picture does that give? A demonstration against our important ally, you wouldn't do that, would you? And what hat is he in there with? Is he in trouble on behalf of the government or on behalf of a party's list-trickler? What is the image that is being evoked with it? That measure against the Israelis is harsh and I never hear of it. We have had various foreign debates and it is always Israel bashen and always complaining about the settlements but never bringing in that point. And now you come up with an example of a footballer once, which you want to make good decoration towards pro-Israeli people. That's strange, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u79	No, I don't have to make good grace with that at all, because my party has always rejected that. If you want to argue that we are silent about this and that we distinguish between measures against Israeli citizens and measures against nationals of these seven countries, then you must make that clear. It's quite a statement you're making. Make it hard or stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u80	I have never seen the stampede that is being made against the United States and against President Trump to this extent when it comes to Israeli citizens who are not allowed to enter Islamic countries. That's really not in proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr. Chairman. VNL believes that the decree is primarily an internal matter for the United States. They must protect their country from terrorism as they see fit. On the one hand, we believe that the entry ban is ill-considered on a number of points. On the other hand, we have problems with the fact that the media and most politicians do not give a complete and honest picture of the whole context of the measures. The entry ban reinforces the measures taken earlier by former President Obama and Congress. The seven countries concerned were then identified as major threats to the US. They are lawless countries without strong government but with large groups of jihadists and terrorists. According to Republican politician Pete Hoekstra, these countries have no procedures on which the US can rely. The new president sees this as a major security risk. That's the underlying idea of the entry ban. It is not being brought to the fore. While the US President has been democratically elected, the unelected EU President Donald Tusk, of course, has again been severely criticised. He even now calls the United States a threat to Europe and places it in the list of Russia, China and radical Islam. It's an insane statement, which sharpens relations with America. We call on Prime Minister Rutte to distance himself from this during the European summit. Is he willing to do this? I'd like to get a reaction to that. America is and remains our greatest and most important ally. The transatlantic relationship must be protected. We ask the Cabinet to guarantee this and not to take part in the EU's battle against Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u83	Madam President. People fear that migration flows will flood the Netherlands and that we will be flooded with people who do not necessarily share Dutch standards and values. Many people believe that the European Union is doing too little about this. The European Union is going on and on and does not solve their problems. Sometimes there seems to be a competition between the euro critics and the euro enthusiasts. One tries to say as many negative things as possible about the European Union. The other tries to propose a more European Union solution to each problem. When we talk about migration and look at the facts, we see that the Turkey deal works. The asylum influx is dropping. In this respect, the cabinet deserves a compliment, because this was done during the Dutch Presidency. This is how you use the European Union: to solve the major cross-border problems of people. Now let's move on. I have just said it in the case of interruption: last year, 180,000 people crossed the Mediterranean and drowned 4,500 people. It has already been said that the Maltese Presidency has declared migration a top priority. It is therefore the first item on the agenda in Malta tomorrow. And rightly so! The VVD welcomes this. The European Commission has also announced a plan: before the summer the flow of migration across the Mediterranean must be severely reduced. It has already been said: Germany also has plans. We ourselves submitted the Azmani plan, which was referred to just now. And the Prime Minister himself said a few weeks ago in Warsaw that the boats should be towed back off the African coast. My question is what exactly is the EU going to do? What will be agreed in Malta tomorrow? What results does the EU want to achieve? And most importantly, when are we going to see the results of this? That's really what people are waiting for. I'd like an answer from the cabinet. The so-called Bratislava Roadmap contains the agreement reached by the Heads of Government on concrete actions to be taken by the European Union in the coming months for the control of external borders, security and migration. Tomorrow we will discuss the follow-up to this Roadmap, all in the run-up to the celebration in Rome on 25 March of the 60th anniversary of the European Union and its predecessors. I have said it many times: the VVD wants the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems, such as migration and security. Furthermore, it should also be normal for countries to comply with commitments made, such as those on the budget deficit. It cannot be that a country such as France goes beyond the rules and that it is said: France is France, let it be. The VVD is not waiting for stories about more European Union in the coming weeks. That is simply rejecting people and it will lead to divisions in the European Union, because countries simply do not agree. The VVD therefore does not want European taxes, as proposed by the Monti Committee two weeks ago. Monti recognizes that himself. Mr Monti, the former Italian Prime Minister, would visit Parliament to present his report on European taxation, but he did not come to the Netherlands. In his e-mail to our Parliament he wrote: that subject is too sensitive. Don't make such proposals if you know they're divisive! The same applies to the summit in Rome. There will be a White Paper from the European Commission. Mr Frans Timmermans said that a few weeks ago in our Parliament. Beware that there will not be those grand stories in there again! I understand that the summit in Rome would first last two days, but that has been reduced to a day. I think that is wise: not high-profile stories, but solving people's concrete problems. My appeal to the Minister is to ensure that this is done in the European Council and to make it clear to the European Commission, because it only divides Europe. I will continue with the so-called entry ban, Muslimban, of the new American president. My group has already said it through my group chairman: this measure goes far too far. It has also been said that the measure is not effective. The U.S. intelligence community says so, too. Moreover, this measure discriminates. In an interruption, however, I also said that I fully understand why Mr Trump is trying to do justice to the concerns that exist among his people. I can understand that. That is also the big difference between the VVD and a number of other colleagues, with the exception of the PVV and the SGP. We do not think that we should cramp again by refusing to name those concerns. I have just said it to Mr Verhoeven. I see him now coming forward in an interruption: do justice to the concrete concerns of people and do not take the moral high ground to clean up those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u84	It is good that Mr Mulder is in line with the PVV and the SGP and is apparently very proud of that. It's okay. I agree with everyone who says that you should take people's concerns seriously and that you should look for solutions. But of course we should not go into populist fake solutions that sound good, but which ultimately or nobody makes happy or just don't work. In that respect, it is strange that a solution that is clearly written off by the VVD as discriminatory and not effective should be used as a way to show that the VVD takes people's concerns seriously. On the one hand, the VVD says 'we reject a discriminatory measure that does not work', but on the other it says that we must take people's concerns seriously. Trump doesn't take people's concerns seriously with this solution, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u85	That's exactly what I'm saying. I said the measure was wrong. The measure is not effective and discriminates. It's what's underneath me that's what the president's doing. He's trying to take away the concerns of his people. He doesn't do that effectively, but he'll try. We, as politicians, must do the same. Mr Verhoeven said that I am in Mr Wilders' camp. You can choose the moral high ground. You can't take those concerns seriously, but then you shouldn't look crazy when in France Le Pen wins the election and maybe Geert Wilders will. We'll see crocodile tears after the election. We need to take people's concerns seriously. That's the point. By demonstrating and simply saying that you condemn Mr Trump, you do not take people's concerns seriously. Then you're sending a totally wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u86	The VVD started this hike on a rather sturdy path, but Mr.Mulder has now really taken a turn to very smooth ice. He says we should take citizens' concerns seriously. Of course, everyone agrees with him. That's what you're in politics for. He then said that we should not be too critical about the fake solutions, Mr Trump's discriminatory ineffective measures. Such measures are intended to solve people's problems and it is morally high ground if you reject them. I reject any solution that does not work, is discriminatory and does not remove people's concerns. Why doesn't the VVD just do that? Why does the VVD continue to cook with this kind of populist solutions? On the one hand, she rejects it, but on the other, she says: we do that to take away people's concerns. That's doubly dull, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u87	Mr Verhoeven puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I have made it clear that Mr Trump's solution is wrong. That is what my group chairman said. But the concerns that Mr Trump is trying to take away do live among the American population. As a politician, you need to find solutions to people's concerns. Mr Trump's solutions are wrong, but those concerns do live with the people. That's the difference between the VVD and D66. I just said it when I was interrupting. We believe that we should tackle migration, while D66 remains a little vague about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u88	I'm gonna keep going at this point. Does Mr Mulder not agree with me that the VVD, if it keeps repeating this reasoning, is fully placed in the frame that Mr Wilders wants so badly: all those who reject such measures do not take the concerns of the citizens seriously? Does Mr Mulder agree with me that this signal is really going in the wrong direction towards the Dutch people? Eventually, the uncircumcised anti-refugee story will be lovelier than the not entirely uncircumcised but also anti-refugee story that keeps the VVD here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u89	I am very pleased with Mr Grashoff's question, because now I can say exactly how we stand in this. The difference between the VVD and a number of parties in this Chamber is that we do take people's concerns seriously, and that is important if we are to come up with concrete solutions. I didn't compliment the Prime Minister on closing the deal with Turkey for nothing. The difference with the PVV is that it identifies these problems but only makes them bigger. We name them and we make them smaller. That is what this Prime Minister is doing with the deal with Turkey, and that is what we must do with Libya.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u90	If you really take citizens' concerns seriously, you try to solve the real problem instead of somehow trying to close holes. That is the last thing we did with the deal with Turkey. The problem has been moved to Libya. If we close the hole there, it moves to another place, but the problem remains. That's citizens who care about a wheel in front of their eyes. For a while they fall for it, but then they lose faith in politics even more because the real solutions are simply not being worked on. All they're trying to do is throw up a shore, a dam. What Mr Mulder is proposing here is essentially nothing but what Mr Trump is doing, but rather dressed up in a more tidy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr Grashoff refers to the relocation of the problem of the Aegean Sea to the Mediterranean. That's not right. Mr Knaus, one of the architects of this deal, said so. I think you're gonna fool people if you don't name the problems and don't want to solve them in concrete terms. That's when you fool people. The VVD wants to solve the problems. That is why we are in the cabinet and we are proud of what the cabinet has done. We want the cabinet to continue in Malta tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u92	One last interruption, Mr Grashoff. Actually, we'd do the interruptions in half. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u93	The VVD suggests here that it will come up with solutions, but the same VVD has ensured that the development cooperation budget, which could do something about the roots of the refugee issue, will be halved in the coming years. However, the VVD is still not prepared to take a step in this area. The VVD blames the PVV that it does not offer solutions, but does not itself come up with any solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u94	It was just suggested that we should link development aid to the obligations of countries. That's what the VVD is very much for, that people get development aid if they help take back refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u95	I would like to talk to Mr Mulder a little more about taking people's concerns seriously and solving them. The VVD wants to do so by continuing to flirt with populism and with plans that it says do not work, but it is good that they are there, because they take citizens' concerns seriously. That's an inimitable argument. But let's talk about things that the VVD itself can do to take away citizens' concerns. Yesterday we had a debate on asylum screening. It's not going well at all. No phones and luggage are checked. It's not in order. The waiting period for an asylum application after you have passed the ID street is more than eight weeks. That's not in order yet, but no one can say anything about it. It's downplayed every time. The VVD always says that the country has become safer, but the crime rates are five times higher than the cabinet suggests. So the cabinet tricks the voter by saying that problems are being solved that are not being solved...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u96	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u97	... and cooks with plans of populists who don't work. That's not taking citizens' concerns seriously, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mr Verhoeven says something important. He says the VVD flirts with populism. You can deal with what we call "popupulism" in two ways. You can say it's a disgrace. You can also take the wind out of populism by providing solutions, so that people do not have to go there, but can rely on parties such as the VVD. That's how you do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u99	The VVD doesn't work either, and that's pretty unclear. This is what I am talking about; let me try to connect at the end of my Interruption Round. Of course, we must take people's concerns seriously and, as non-populist parties, we must work hard to provide solutions, giving people the feeling that they can regain control of their lives and that problems are being solved, sometimes European, sometimes national. But we can agree that we can simply condemn the solutions proposed by populists, which are clear that they are not working, without saying that it is good that they are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u100	I just said something about populism or whatever you want to call it. It does not contain the solutions, but it is my responsibility as a representative of the people to know what is going on among the people. It is our responsibility as political parties to stand here with solutions and to ensure that they are implemented there. We do. You say that we do not offer solutions, but the Turkey deal has succeeded and the flow of migration has declined. We must now do the same as a hare for the flow across the Mediterranean. This is how you solve people's problems and concerns, not by condemning everyone for being a populist or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u102	What struck me was that Mr Dijsselbloem as a cabinet member also said something about America: if America behaves that way, we should start doing business with China. Is that wise? Is that wise? We have a very good relationship with the United States. There are American troops in Europe to protect us. The Chinese are not stationing troops here to protect us from Russia. China also has a very dubious reputation, and I say it mildly in the areas of democracy, human rights and trade. For example, look at the South China Sea. I find it particularly strange that the representative of the cabinet seems to think that China's disadvantages are less than those of America, just because Mr Trump is doing something. Then you have a very short memory. Actually, you have a certain dedain for American democracy. You put it in the garbage. The US Parliament and the US legal system will eventually correct this. For that we do not have to walk around with our finger lifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u103	Mr. Chairman. I see that during this debate the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister regularly talk to each other. The Chamber could, of course, take offense, but I think it is a good thing that they are speaking to each other. The last few days have not always been clear who said what on who's behalf. The measure Trump took last weekend was the very thick drop that caused many people to flood a bucket; a bucket that was already quite full and that asked for a firm response, a firm rejection, a firm stance for leadership: political leadership and moral leadership. We heard from Minister Koenders on Sunday in front of the NOS camera that this measure discriminates on the basis of faith and origin. It's crystal clear! During Question Time Tuesday he said: it is over the border. It's crystal clear! But we did not hear or hardly heard the Prime Minister; only a brief statement on Sunday in which there was a lack of rejection and the word 'discrimination'. Yesterday, after a question, he would have said 'I was not there' after a deep sigh: this measure could lead to discrimination, see how it works. It's two-and-a-half. It is either discrimination or it is not discrimination. You speak out against it or you don't speak out against it. As long as this cabinet is in place and as long as my party is in it, I assume that there is unity of government policy. I ask the Prime Minister immediately to endorse and repeat the statements made by his Foreign Minister. Let me also say, in response to what some have just said, that the exclusion of nationals on the basis of their nationality or belief must always be condemned and always discriminated against. So once and for all: the exclusion of Israeli citizens by Arab countries is discriminatory and should be condemned. I will tell the people who have raised this point that if you agree with this, you must do the same in relation to Trump's measures. We received a letter from the cabinet following questions we had asked on Tuesday. Thank you for that, but I do have a few more questions. It seems to have been clarified that Dutch people with a double passport from one of the seven countries can still go to the United States. Has that been formally confirmed? But how many cases are still in there? That's how I got a moving e-mail myself this morning. Someone who has a family including a foster son who holds a Dutch foreign passport, but who currently has only Somali nationality, has been told that he cannot travel to the United States with his whole family. I also just received a message from a group of women from Syria, Yemen and Libya who want to go to a UN meeting and who want to speak there, thanks to Dutch aid, but cannot do so now. How does the Dutch Government deal with these cases? Is there a central point of contact where these duped can go? I also missed an analysis in the letter of how exactly the measure relates to the UN Refugee Convention. Is there a demonstrable tension and does the cabinet agree with us that an opinion from the international advisor could be useful here? I come to Europe's wider response to what is happening in the US. We must not only express our indignation, but also act. I agree with the letter that President Tusk sent to the Heads of Government with a call to action to Europe not to sit still, but to take action on the issues that concern everyone in Europe and elsewhere in the world. What commitment does the Prime Minister intend to make to this European summit? Does he also intend to enforce a clear condemnation of President Trump's measure there? What concrete steps does he propose to take in Europe, particularly when it comes to strengthening our common foreign policy? I come to a number of specific countries and cases which will also be discussed. As far as Libya is concerned, I agree with a number of questions such as those raised by D66. I share the concern about the people who are still stuck in Greece and Serbia, because we can talk about new agreements on migration and how we can manage them, but at the moment people are in the freezing cold on the Greek islands and in Belgrade. It would be a shame if the European Heads of Government were unable to find a solution for them. I am also very concerned about the construction of settlements, where the brake has been removed completely. Over 5,000 new settlements have been announced by the Israeli Government. In response to parliamentary questions that I raised last week after the first announcement of new settlements, Minister Koenders said that the European Union will talk about all possible policy options. He mentioned a number of positive measures, but not counter-measures which show our genuine indignation. What measures will he propose himself and does he consider feasible? Finally, I come to Ukraine. Without anything happening there, but anticipating the new geopolitical situation, we have seen a huge increase in violence with deaths on both sides in recent weeks. There too, I think, is a role for Europe to make clear that sanctions must remain in place. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. But it would also be good if we showed our diplomatic initiative again through Merkel, Hollande or others. I would also like to hear what the government wants to propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u104	I have a question about the future of Europe. We will be discussing this next week, but I would like to have some clarification from the Labour Party on the line it is now in favour of. We have seen an article by Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs entitled: Dear Donald. In this he indicates that he wants to return to the core tasks, so no interference with care, education and pensions, and no European army. We also have the five-president plan, which includes Mr Dijsselbloem's signature, including the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u105	And you say they'll be talking about it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u106	But that will also be discussed next Friday. I would like to know what line the Labour Party is going to take: the Dijsselbloem line or the Koenders line?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u107	Yes, Mr President, I do not feel much about this. A debate is scheduled for next week: the State of the European Union. This lends itself perfectly to the larger reflections on the question of where to integrate, where not? I think that the letter from President Donald Tusk is most important at the moment, because it calls for a strong and confident response to what we are seeing in the world today: the threats we have been seeing for a long time and the challenge now that there is another wind blowing out of Washington. I have already indicated in previous interruptions that I believe that the Union should increase its own role in a number of key areas affecting security, foreign policy and the threat at our borders. I thought so before this letter, but I still think so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u108	However, I would like to make a small advance on next week's debate. I note that Mr Servaes is, at least for the time being, behind the Dijsselbloem line, which is also behind the Tusk line, namely further integration of Europe, further economic, financial and fiscal cooperation, political union including European taxes and so on. Well, let's get this straight for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u109	I have a quick question. That debate is indeed next week, but Mr Koenders' piece is really hot. He also writes that the European Parliament should be halved. What does the Labour Party think of the current size of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u110	No, we are not going to confuse two debates, including on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mr President, this is just a short question. There may be a short answer to that. This is just in the light of what's being said tomorrow. Two rulers all say different things. Mr Servaes was right to point that out. I'll ask him briefly. He can answer briefly. Then I'm gonna drop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u112	He heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u113	Then maybe we'll go on next week, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mr President, if you would like to give me another six minutes of speaking time, I would be happy to have a treatise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u115	No, that is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u116	I think it is very important that we realise where we stand in European history. There's no point in diving and being bizarre. The follow-up to this speech will be heard by my colleague Mr Maij in flames next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Verhoeven, would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u118	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-5.u119	That seems to me to be a good proposal. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend until 1:35 p.m. We'll start with the arrangement of work. Then we will continue with this debate.
