ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. If it drips into the care, it rains in the emergency room. As we all know, and probably by now, the Minister, too, is hoisting to the emergency services. As early as May last year, I asked the government what it was going to do about the problem that there were overcrowded emergency rooms and that ambulances could sometimes not get there. Now, seven months later, it appears that not so much has been done and that the emergency services are still overcrowded. There's been a lot of meetings, but nothing worked out. That is why I ask the Minister today to respond to three proposals, which can reduce the pressure and prevent problems in the future. Firstly, is the Minister prepared to stop the discussion on closing emergency posts immediately? Health insurers still dare to claim that emergency services should be closed. We see that the posts, if they may not be physically closed, close for certain conditions. You can't go anywhere for neurology or heart problems. The closure of emergency rooms may take place sneaking, or immediately. Is the Minister prepared to announce a stop at that closure? Secondly, is the Minister prepared to put an end to the nomination of nursing homes to be closed down? We know that these places are badly needed, not only for the people who live there now, but also for the people who are in the hospital and need a place, because they can't recover in the hospital. Thirdly, is the Minister prepared to train more people for both the hospital and the ambulance? Is the Minister prepared not to leave it to hospitals? They use their training budget for other things when needed and bring back their training spots if there is a headwind. Will we be able to provide sufficient care staff with each other and such a fund, so that the ambulance is not only there, but can also drive out because there are nursing staff on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of pressure on the emergency room. This is due to a combination of circumstances, which we see not only in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries. Firstly, there is a flu epidemic, which affects both vulnerable elderly and children, for example with the RS virus. Sometimes infectious diseases also occur in the hospital, which temporarily closes beds. For example, we have had the norovirus and other infectious diseases. However, there are also structural causes. The first is the longer home of more vulnerable elderly people. The second is the shortage of emergency nurses. I've been talking to hospitals myself who said they were very busy. For example, I went to Alkmaar in North Holland to see what we could contribute. What's an important lesson? The regional consultation of the acute care chain should be involved, preferably if the bottlenecks are not there yet, but especially if there are bottlenecks. That's where the whole acute chain with the insurance company is put together. Secondly, it is important that the inspection has not received any signals that the quality of care at the emergency services is at stake. We also keep the finger on the wrist as VWS. We'll think along if we need to. We have already done this with the practical team in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht and The Hague. We've been in contact in Limburg and Nijmegen. The inspection has been in contact with Amphia Hospital. That says it's crowded, but the quality isn't at stake. We do need structural solutions. What structural solutions do I favour? The first is in line with Mrs Leijten's third point. More emergency nurses need to be trained. We have the seats available for that. In fact, for a lot of nursing education they are not even fulfilled. There are situations with a numerus fixus, but we have seen that they actually have no meaning because everyone who wanted to study nursing, except a few students, there are other reasons behind it. There needs to be more training. It is an important obligation of hospitals to do so, not only to train them, but also to provide internships. The first-line beds must be purchased by the health insurance provider. The emergency beds of the Long-Term Care Act in the nursing homes must be purchased by the health offices. We need to connect and coordinate in the chain. It can be much better in some places. The change in older people's policies means that we need to find each other again in the region. Furthermore, we must move towards new forms of care for vulnerable elderly people. For example, in Twente we see a geriatric expertise team at the GPs post. In Amsterdam, we see a pilot of neighbourhood nurses on the emergency services that quickly guide the elderly back home. We see ZorgnaZorg in Northern Netherlands where you can see in real time which beds are available for the elderly. But all four points need to be addressed at the same time. Finally, Mr President. The Vlietland Hospital isn't closed because the health insurance company wanted it. Emergency services are closed at night due to lack of emergency nurses. As a result of pregnancy, relocation, failure and other matters, the deficit could not be filled. So we really need to train more of these nurses. We have already called for this, but this should ultimately be done in hospitals by hospitals with training and training places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is up to the regional consultation and the health insurers and health offices to do something. However, we also know that care homes are still being closed down. Where everyone has to consult and meet to create new places and new chains, the cabinet is still demolishing nursing homes. Why can't you just quit? You could also say, where there is a meeting on how this is to be resolved, that we are going to train. While hospitals have completed their training sites in recent years, we now have a major problem. It's very naive to say it's up to the hospitals. I would like the Minister not to say that it is 'happy' abroad, but that she says that it is 'unfortunate' abroad. Because we have too few places for the elderly who, after having to stay home for longer, cannot go back home, we also cannot cope with a flu wave. Nor can we cope with an outbreak of influenza among children; they even need to be transported abroad. That is serious enough, but there are structural problems underneath it. We mop up with the crane open when care homes are closed and there is a discussion about the concentration of emergency services 'because they can be a little less'. That is why I ask the Minister to stop discussing the closure of further emergency posts. We agree on this: the problems are now too great. I would also like to ask the Minister about the future of the care homes that are now to be closed down. I mention Gorkum, for example, where 60 inhabitants are to be spread across the region. I am not talking about personal dramas, but about the problem that people will not be able to go there when they come from the hospital. Finally, training places. I know the money is there and there are nurses who want to do this. How can it be explained that the hospitals do not offer it? Would a fund and national coordination not then be the solution over and above the choice for each hospital's own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	We really do not need a fund, because these places are reimbursed. Mrs Leijten just said that money is not a problem; it is not a problem either. The influx hasn't collapsed. The influx of emergency nurses into training has increased by 25% since 2014, but we need more. This turns out to be in the emergency room. I am not in a casual meeting circuit, including the NVZ and the NFU, so the domes of the hospitals, have indicated that they will pick this up and that this really must be done. That's one. Secondly, something really needs to be done about the offer. However, we are using first-line beds instead of nursing homes. We have increased the budget for first-line beds over and over again, and we will continue to do so until there are sufficient first-line beds. These first-line beds can be created in all kinds of places. You can do that in a nursing home, you can do that in a hospital, you can do that in an old hospital where you can now have a doctor's office. We need more first-line beds, but the emergency beds under the Long-term Care Act remain empty because there is uncertainty about payment. We need to get rid of that. Those beds are there and they should be used. So what we have has to be used. The number of first-line beds should be increased. We see all kinds of initiatives to ensure that vulnerable elderly people who want to live at home for as long as possible are better cared for. We must prevent them from coming to the emergency room. There are very good initiatives, e.g. Hospital@Home, which will give vulnerable elderly people much better guidance so that the peak in emergency services is avoided on Friday afternoons, because everyone goes there just to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	There's money, there's beds, and yet it doesn't work. You can't explain that, can you? They say to paramedics: if you deliver someone to us at the hospital, that's fine, but you also have to bring someone with you. Where are they supposed to take them? This is happening now and at the same time the health insurance companies apparently do not have any money to pay for the first-line beds. I can't explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is true that coordination can be improved. In some regions that goes very well. In Alkmaar I sat with everyone at the table. At Vlietland we saw that the participants in the regional consultation had not yet spoken of acute concern at all. That's gotta be better. We are currently making a good inventory of where enough beds are bought and where the white spots are. As far as that's concerned, I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist. I'll keep the Chamber informed of what's actually coming out of there, so we know where to go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mrs Bouwmeester, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	In order to tackle this problem, the Minister states that this is a multi-headed monster and she gives a number of justified and good intentions. I would like to make another suggestion. It is already being identified where these places are, but we hear from the GPs that they want one system per region. They want to be able to see where there is place at the press of a button, so that they can refer people to it. Often they do not know where these places are and that creates the mismatch. So the question is whether they can see at the push of a button where waiting lists are for the policy and where not. Is that possible for the first-line beds?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	I fully agree with Mrs Bouwmeester. In the North of the Netherlands there is real-time insight into the available beds for the elderly. That's incredibly important. We are following this very well, because if it works well, we want to be able to apply it everywhere. These are the new initiatives that allow you to deal with the available places much more efficiently. Then you don't have to lecture people and you can drive them straight to the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	Then I have a question. The initiative the minister refers to is from ZorgnaZorg. This is a cooperative in Groningen where almost all hospitals in the North Netherlands, all nursing homes and a large number of general practitioners and first-line beds cooperate. That has been around for about a year and a half and it works very well, but it is not a good time for the region. What are the obstacles in our country which require the invention of the wheel over and over again in other regions, while there is this wonderful example that is really rooted in the North of the Netherlands and could work in other regions? What can the Minister contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	I will personally commit myself to applying the pilots that run well everywhere. I mention the pilot in Twente with a geriatric team of expertise at the GP station, the real-time insight at ZorgnaZorg in the North of the Netherlands and the pilot with district nurses at the emergency room that will ensure that someone is accompanied to the place where they should end up if it isn't the hospital. I've got three more. We have inventoried them and we are going to look in consultation with all those parties to see how we can ensure that things that run well do not just remain within the regions where they are now so creative to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is poignant that vulnerable elderly people do not receive care in the right place. Transfer nurses are working their way around to make sure that older people can still sometimes go to a certain place. General practitioners come up with new ideas about first-line beds. Actually, we've been seeing this going on for a year. How long is it gonna take us to figure this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	Some things are easy to solve, but for example training an emergency nurse takes two and a half years. That's gonna take longer. Money is not the problem and places are not the problem either, but placements and training places. It'll take more time. There are already things that can be done more quickly, for example that in the regional consultation you consult acute care chain well. We can do that now. We are on top of it with our practical team to get people to find each other when that doesn't happen. Then you can already see that a very large part of the problems are solved by themselves. Some things can be fast and others can be less fast. However, at the request of the Chamber, we did map out the flag in a quick scan. In the coming months, we are going to fill that in more and more detail, so that we can know exactly where to intervene.
