ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	A very good morning. The next item is the debate on the Autumn paper 2017. Welcome to the Minister and to his officials. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker of today, Mr Van Dijck, from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's going well. Things are going well in the Netherlands with the economy and with public finances. Only the citizens in this country do not notice any of that in their wallets. They do not benefit from this economic growth of more than 3% this year and next year. According to the Minister, he also had to admit this in the Start note at Question 70. Real relief for families is not included in this cabinet period. In the long term, according to the CPB, there is even an increase of 1.2 billion. In the long run, after 2021, intervention will have to take place again, otherwise the burden on families will rise again. So the economy is doing well, but the state treasury is doing well, the multinationals are getting a nice, lower Vpb with the foreign investors well. They are not paying dividends tax anymore. They are not paying well with our families. That's what the PVV is worried about. Because purchasing power is barely increasing. This year it will increase by 0.3%, next year by 0.6% and in 2019 by 1.4%. Crumbles! This increase of 1.4% depends on an increase of 3.5% in wages. If these wages do not rise by 3.5%, there is no increase in purchasing power of 1.4%. That's easy. The government promises an increase in purchasing power, but the business community must ensure this with higher wages. DNB predicted yesterday that wages will probably not increase by 3.5% in 2019, but by 2.5%. That's a downgrade for wages of 1%. And today the CPB predicted 2.2% in 2018. My first question is what are these purchasing power promises worth if wages are not rising sufficiently. Is the Minister prepared to have new purchasing power calculations made for 2018 and 2019 based on these new insights from the CPB and DNB? Mr. Chairman. This way we are made year after year happy with a dead sparrow. The government promises an increase in purchasing power of 1.4%, but that's probably not gonna be him. "After the acid comes the sweet" is called. And if it's sweet then, the roof has to be repaired. The Netherlands is allowed to work its way around for a slap. The disposable income of Dutch workers has stopped for years. They are the ones who are allowed to realise growth, but they must not profit from it. Mr. Chairman. My second question is what the growth of 150 billion in four years is based on. On average, GDP is growing by 35 billion. And according to the CPB report we just got hold of, this growth is in government spending, in government procyclical policy. We are even talking about an expansionary fiscal policy. Is it really the case that this finance minister thinks everything for Wopke and nothing for Henk and Ingrid? Because that's what it comes down to in the end. Government spending is growing by 0.4% this year, by 3.5% next year. There is therefore an additional growth in public spending of 3.1%. Speaking of the debt relief, I read in the answer to question 12 that in this cabinet period 118 billion is repaid on public debt, but at the same time I see that the total debt is only reduced by 10 billion. How can you explain that? You pay off 118 billion, you have a surplus, and people don't get any relief. Does the government soup up this whole growth? Because the government debt is barely falling, the surplus is barely growing, interest charges have fallen considerably and the State pays 3 billion less interest than a few years ago. Why was it chosen, is my question to the Minister, to place interest charges under the expenditure framework? Isn't that dangerous? Because we all know that interest is going to rise. We just don't know when, but the interest rate's gonna rise, that's for sure. And does that mean, when interest rates start to rise, that extra savings will have to be made, after the ECB's quantitative-easing period? Mr. Chairman. The same applies to gas benefits. Why have they been placed under the expenditure framework? If the gas crane has to close further, because the judge decides that or for other reasons, then there will be tough additional cuts. How's the Minister gonna take this? Does he have a plan B? Because the interest rate is going to rise during this cabinet period and probably gas revenues are going to decrease as well. My question is: has the Minister thought about this? Then Europe. The cabinet is very tough: other countries must have their houses in order before risk-sharing and safety nets can be considered. That all sounds very tough and very daring, but at the same time it is wishful thinking. 'Cause that's never gonna happen. They're not even trying, the other countries. Why would they? After all, they have an ECB that buys all their junk bonds and they have an emergency fund to fall back on and finally they still have TARGET2 ahead of them. We can therefore see that the deficits in the Mediterranean countries are barely falling. They have been above or around 3% for years and the public debt in those countries is above 100%. Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, France and even Belgium. Italy has a mega debt of 2,200 billion and, in order to reach 60% of the public debt, Italy has to repay 1,200 billion. This minister says they must have their housekeeping books in order first. He means: they must comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. So: how is the Minister going to get Italy to repay 1,200 billion on its public debt? Because otherwise they are not on the 60% and their housekeeping is not healthy. Does the Minister maintain that he will never agree to a European stability mechanism or a European monetary fund until the countries are healthy? Mr. Chairman. What struck me was the payments to Brussels. The Netherlands, as we all know, pays blue to this hollow globe in Brussels. But in 2017, we can pay 7 billion, which amounts to 9 billion in 2019. How can you explain that? Two billion more. And if you look at the GNI contribution, it will grow by 0.15% more than in 2017. So we need to pay more of our GNI to Brussels. How can you explain this? I also don't see that discount of nearly 1 billion anymore. Where'd it go? Then the IRS. That is, of course, the scandal of the month. The proceeds of the donation and inheritance tax are almost half a billion down. ICT problems. The fact that the old system could not be changed was already known at the beginning of 2015. But the minister didn't know about this until last month. Beginning 2015, end 2017. Speaking of good communication. Didn't the IRS learn anything? As a reason, the Minister says that the necessary expertise is no longer in the house. Yeah, that's not so crazy, of course, if you send everyone away with a gold-edged departure scheme and then the wrong people, the indispensable people, use the crucial people, then of course you have a problem. 17,000 people are affected by this now. 17,000 people are waiting for their inheritance or their donation. That is, of course, a disgrace. And the only thing the minister has in store is that he doesn't charge interest on the hit to be paid. It shouldn't get weirder. My question is therefore: is the Minister going to pay interest on that inheritance and on that donation because it will be paid a year later than planned? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President, I will conclude. It's a festive budget for this minister, with nothing but windfalls. The economy is growing by more than 3%, unemployment is shrinking faster than ever, a constant surplus of over 3 billion and debt melting like snow for the sun: from 57% to 46%. But it's not a party in the living rooms of the Netherlands. That's where they have to do it with a few crumbs. Purchasing power is barely increasing, there is no reduction in charges and wages are barely rising. Doesn't make anyone happy. At the Ministry of Finance, it's a party and the sun shines, but at the people's house it's cold and dark. The question is when will this Minister allow the Netherlands to take part. It's about time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Elections and an endlessly long formation, but Rutte III is now in full swing, and that was also high time. Today we are looking at the current year, the Autumn note as a progress report on fiscal policy. The good news, as my colleague Van Dijck has already said, is that things are going well in the Netherlands. Since last year we have a budget surplus and again this year we seem to have a nice plus. The debt is also well below the average in the euro area. I think we can say that public finances are in order. However, I would like to point out that we are still paying over 6 billion in interest payments. That is indeed much less than in 2016, but it's still a lot of money, at least more than just a little bit of money, to mention the available budget for the national police. The economy is growing; we have heard that too. The CPB numbers are good. DNB reported on it as well. We have the highest growth in ten years. It's also worn wide. It is not just a question of public investment; it is also a question of consumption and exports. The number of jobs is increasing and unemployment is falling. We should be proud of that. Mr. Chairman. All this doesn't just fall out of the sky. All this is mainly the result of everyone in the Netherlands, everyone who has put their hands on it in recent years. Because we have fought together from a difficult period by holding on and always taking that step again and again. That was not always funny and it was certainly not always easy, but it is well done. I think we can see that today with results. It is a fact that the Netherlands is doing well on a number of international rankings. Sure, those rankings say a lot. At the same time, as Mr Van Dijck said a little bit, I understand very well that not everyone is immediately cheering when looking at good macro-economic figures and I understand very well that people do not uncork the champagne or go to the beer because we score well on those lists. These lists do not take away your own concerns and uncertainties about the future. What good is a nice report if you're insecure about your job, about your children's future or about caring for your parents? It's often said here: statistics are beautiful, but you can't live in them and you don't deal with them in the supermarket either. The coalition agreement rightly states that this beautiful Netherlands should not only improve its statistics, but that as many people as possible in the Netherlands should also experience this themselves, for example in the wallet by getting more spending, but also in the immediate environment, for example because it becomes safer. If your parents don't live at home anymore, you'd like them to feel at home as much as possible. You also want to be able to trust that your children are well educated and that they are also being prepared for a future in which they can find a good job and buy a house. A future in which care gets even better and the street is safer. Let us be honest, Mr President, no matter how well things go, there is always room for improvement or change. This country is simply never finished. There can be no sit back now, no tomorrow, and no days after that. In other words, this cabinet too has a lot of work to do. As many people as possible should, as said, actually feel that things are going well in the Netherlands. Not insignificant: The Netherlands must be ready for tomorrow and also the day after tomorrow and thus be able to cope with the uncertainties and risks that lie ahead. I call the Brexit, but there are many more factors that we need to verify. The world is restless. Securitys that have been adopted are increasingly being called into question. No one will have noticed that internal and external stability or security are now two sides of the same coin. We have paid a high price for this several times in recent years. Mr President, I am by nature an optimistic person, as you know me. However, this does not mean that I close my eyes to the sometimes harsh reality. No matter how well we have our business for each other, the Dutch open and free society with the benefits it brings is even more vulnerable to a lot of things. We also seem, at least recently, to be somewhat forgetting that the crisis is in fact only just behind us. It is, of course, true that we are heading from fragile recovery to a little more reassurance. However, this does not mean that we can spend a possible surplus or, in a more negative way, we can shatter it. I therefore think it wise and sensible to agree on these surpluses so as not to cause any madness. Of course, about what these crazy things are, opinions can differ. Mr. Chairman. Rutte II's budgetary rules included a so-called "coincidence formula." The rules or principles, or whatever we want to call them today, for this cabinet period do not include a specific formula. The question is how wise that is. After all, a windfall formula gives peace and clarity. It also prevents Jan and alleman from taking advantage of each other with all kinds of plans and projects. Following the start-up note and the budgetary rules, we know that there is an estimated surplus. So we are talking about the surplus that would recover from that. I think it is wise and sensible to introduce a formula for this. I would ask the Minister to do this after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	When money is lacking, the formula is that there will be fewer provisions, for example in the areas of safety, care and education, because we have no money. The taxes will go up. If there is money left, then there must be a formula for what we do with that money, while the cabinet is already saying: we're windowing for surplus and that's all going into the treasury; we're not fixing what we've been asking people to do in recent years. Shouldn't that surplus simply go back into structural provisions, such as education and safety? Wouldn't that be best? Shouldn't you be asking how the minister's gonna do that? Shouldn't the VVD say: if extra money comes in, it goes to the people who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	I understand very well that opinions may differ on what such a formula looks like. When I talk about a windfall formula, I am thinking in particular of the further discharge of public debt, because we are still, in fact, shattering billions of interest. Then I also think of relief, because in the end the money is raised by very hard-working Dutch people. They have paid the highest price in recent years. There is currently considerable public investment in a range of facilities, including education, care and defence. I think this cabinet is doing exactly what Mrs Leijten is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	The relief goes to those who already have enough, such as foreign investors and high-income people, while low-income people are going to pay more tax and daily groceries are also becoming more expensive. There's not much balance in that. Should we not say, with a surplus formula, as we should perhaps call it in your words, that there is money left; that has been brought up by the people, and that is why we are ensuring that this benefits from relief or good facilities that are needed, such as lower working pressure in the classroom and extra agents in the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	This cabinet is now investing heavily in this area, for example in education, care and defence. The police have also clearly come to the head of the cabinet. Apart from that, I ask this Minister for a windfall formula. I'm asking him about his vision on that. You will not be surprised that the VVD would then call for a clear distribution key when it comes to further debt relief and further burden relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr President, I would like to make one more point. I find it rather sad that the largest party here is asking the Minister how he is going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	We have experience with the windfall formula, as agreed in previous cabinet, Rutte II. That's when we had this formula. Half would go to public debt and half to relief, while there was a surplus of more than two quarters, I believe. I exposed that formula just before the summer. It should then be used by former Finance Minister Dijsselbloem, and then they did not. Then the VVD was also at the helm. Why didn't you use that formula then? Now you have lost all your credibility with regard to formulas and their use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	I really have to keep the answer to that for a while. I have no idea why the formula you discovered at the time was not used. I should check that out. I would like to make a clear plea for a windfall formula here, and I would like to give this minister, who has just taken office, the opportunity to reflect on it for a moment, think about it and give it some thought. In doing so, I am clear about what the VVD is advocating, namely relief of burdens and the further discharge of public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Okay, well, then maybe that's not to blame this spokesperson, because that was before the summer. But my other question is then the next one. I hear it all the time: people have to feel it. There is a surplus of only 3 billion, which is used entirely to relieve public debt. Does Mrs Hennis now feel that people in the Netherlands are going to feel that things are improving economically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	That is the mission of this cabinet. This has also been clearly addressed in the coalition agreement and in the negotiations leading up to the coalition agreement. In the coming years, most people in the Netherlands must therefore feel that, in your words, it is "good going" in the Netherlands. It's gonna take a while. The reduction in charges, which you raised some doubts about, is quite obvious. This, combined with an increase in contract wages, should really lead to more room in the wallet for a lot of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	Does Mrs. Hennis know the windfall formula for healthcare expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	Well, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	If care expenditure is not too bad and nominal premiums fall, it is good for the citizens. The windfall formula says the taxes will go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, but that's because the revenue side has to stay on level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	But this is precisely a point of criticism of the budgetary rules. If expenditure is not too bad and if it succeeds in controlling healthcare expenditure, the citizens do not feel it in their pockets. Isn't that exactly one of your key points? If things go well again, if spending isn't so bad, citizens should feel it in their wallets. And then this cabinet is going to raise taxes. That's strange, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	But we've separated the revenue and expenses. This is actually a very logical formula. If it leads to lower healthcare expenditure, the expenditure framework could create room for investment elsewhere. Those are separate paths, if you will. So I think there's a little too much going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think it's wise for the VVD to think about what happens to windfalls and what you should do with them as a government. I can also imagine that you'd agree to a formula for that. However, I do have a question about burden relief in that context. One of the biggest problems of the Dutch economy and public finances is that it is actually throwing oil on the fire. It's procyclical, as economists call it. What do you have to do if things are going very well? Well, then you shouldn't be pushing this place any more. That's the fastest thing to do with load relief. I understand that the VVD wants to call 'burden relief' as a right-wing party, but I think that, when you look at economic policy, that is actually the dumbest thing you can do. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	Introducing a windfall formula isn't even said and arranged tomorrow. There is another separate debate on this. That's why I want the Minister to reflect on that. Are we dealing with occasional windfalls? Is this about structural windfalls? How much surplus do you want on top of the estimated surplus before you start talking about it? These are all matters that need to be addressed. But again, the tax money that we are all paid for and which we organize all the public services of, is brought up by many hardworking Dutch people. As far as I am concerned, they are the first ones to come when it comes to extra surpluses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	I can imagine anything in paying off the sovereign debt in the case of windfalls. Then you build up buffers and you have to act a little less hard when things get worse economically; that's the downside. That's really wise. In that case, unemployment will not become unnecessary. But I don't really hear anyone pleading for a whole bunch of money to be paid out, especially when things are going really well. Also the CPB says in its report today: government, watch what you do. So I understand that the VVD would like to call for 'burden relief, relief, relief'. But in view of budgetary policy and the fact that unemployment is not too high, which is sensible, it is actually one of the least obvious proposals I could have come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	It is a pity that Mr Nijboer reacts in this way, because in the past we have been able to make clear agreements with the PvdA on this, with the bulk of which was actually intended for the further discharge of public debt. In my view, only a quarter, 25%, would benefit from relief. I'm not getting ahead of myself on a possible distribution key right now. I would like to highlight the priorities for the VVD: to relieve the public debt, because interest charges are still far too high, but certainly also to reduce the burden on all those people who have taken that step over and over again in recent years and paid a high price to put the crisis behind us together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	I just said it's a good thing the government has the housekeeping book getting better and better. However, the medium-term review of the CPB shows a constant deficit of 0.2% of GDP among local authorities. At the same time, the local authorities are subject to an equivalent commitment in the Court of Justice with regard to public finances and, in particular, the EMU balance. Please note that, for the time being, there is no breakdown of the EMU deficit standard by level of government. So we only know a macro norm for all local authorities. However, a breakdown of the standard after the administrative layer and also the publication of individual reference values has an added value in the context of the equivalent effort which the Court of Justice intends to make. It is also important to note that this is a possible incentive for local authorities to get the budget in order. I must say that all this was more or less confirmed by the Secretary of State. My question is when does the Minister or the Secretary of State really matter to me? Is there a timeline or something? I'd really like to hear that, because I think it would be a shame if we let this go now. Mr Van Dijk has just spoken in detail about the tax on donations and inheritances, but also last week during the AO. I'm not gonna repeat that AO. The wait is now simply for the facts, as promised by the Secretary of State, but I would like to have said here that informing the Chamber side by side through the Navy note really does not give a pass. Really, I know what it's like to be politically responsible for a very large implementation organization, but it's not exactly the first time that information is withheld by the Tax Office or that information reaches the directors far too late, let alone the Chamber. My question is therefore whether the summit of the department is now really aware of the fact that this simply cannot be done, that understanding of possible implementation problems is really there, even in this house, in this way disappears like snow before the sun and that all of this is really very unmotivating for all those employees that day in and day out of their best efforts to manage things in the right direction. Can the Minister fully reflect on this? Finally, my final question. I would like to know whether all the letters of amendment relating to the departmental land consolidation have since been sent to the Chamber. The same question applies to the letters of amendment relating to the intensifications of the coalition agreement, which still require further clarification and have therefore been entered in the supplementary budget item for the time being. All the answers always refer to "for Christmas," but it's almost Christmas now and I don't have the overview sharp. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. Before you leave, there is another question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	The VVD is for transparency. That is what people in health care and education are sighing under, but would it be a good idea for us Members of Parliament to understand exactly what is happening with what is left of the national budget and how it is used in the following year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	Do you mean the surplus on individual budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	I mean, basically, everything that's left over. That's also called under-exhaustment, all that's left. That now goes directly to the general budget. Some things are reserved again for the coming year and others are added to the Spring Note, but also funds are simply used for redemption. They can all be very legitimate goals, but I have asked them in the many factual questions we have asked: give us a list of what has been left over in recent years and where that money has remained. The Ministry can't give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	In my view, this is also dealt with extensively in the budget of the trade departments. The rules for the end-of-year margin are fully known. The trade departments also make it perfectly clear what they are doing with this. If the rest is used to repay the public debt, it seems to me to be totally justified and in line with budgetary rules. So I'm just looking for the point Mrs Leijten wants to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	We can talk about whether you think the destination and spending of the money is justified, but I just want to have an overview. What was left in what years? What kind of money is re-destined within a department or reserved for another budget? What resources have simply fallen back on the general funds and then gone into repayment? For example, we get an overview of what has been repaid and you name it, but this cannot be given. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	I think that this question really needs to be put to the Minister. In view of my experience in the past, I know that the trade departments are perfectly capable of telling us what happened to the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	Do you know, Mr. Chairman, why I'm asking this? The VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Leijten, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u36	The VVD and the SP are very different, I think, about where the money is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think so too, but your point is clear and the question will be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u38	I would like to ask one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u39	I've been very generous, because you've caught an interruption in fours by now when I agreed to meet in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u40	And yet I would like to put another question to Mrs Hennis. Is the VVD prepared...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, no, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u42	... to work together to get this understood so that we can have the substantive debate on the money properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mrs Leijten, Mrs Hennis no longer has to answer this question. This is an interruption in fours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u44	In order to close the debate properly, let me give you an answer. Mrs Leijten has a good one to me when it comes to transparent operation. I will look at what she means, because I think it is quite clear what is happening with possible under-exhaustment on individual specialist budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you. Mr Snels van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. We are at the end of the year, and we are also at the end of the financial year, a budget that was drawn up by the previous cabinet. I will link the actual questions on the Autumn note with the government's view on budgetary policy. You know that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance makes different choices when it comes to burdens and expenditure. We have presented these choices together with the SP and the PvdA, among other things: more spending on wages in care and education, less burden relief for large companies. But I do not want to talk about this today, but about budgetary policy as such, even from the point of view that GroenLinks also believes that we should pursue a trendary fiscal policy and handle public expenditure carefully. Mr. Chairman. There is an overrun of the spending framework of the state budget of 2.6 billion, a fall in social security and the labour market of 1 billion, and a loss of 2.4 billion in health care. In total, there is an undervalue of 800 million. However, the budget balance is deteriorating. Why is that, anyway? If you look at the economic growth rates, you will see that after next year they will be flattened very quickly. Then there doesn't have to be much headwind or we'll get into the financial problems. Do we have enough security? Mr. Chairman. My main point today is the Budgetary Framework Care. On Prinsjesdag, a breakdown of the BKZ of 1.7 billion in 2017 was reported. This increases by 700 million to 2.4 billion in the Autumn note. These estimates are based on preliminary figures from the Healthcare Institute and, in particular, the sectors of ggz and medicines and aids contribute to the undermining. However, we only get a poor basis for what happens in the healthcare budget and only a further analysis in the spring. If you look at the past five years, as of 2013, there has been a constant failure. That's starting to become a structural phenomenon. There are two ways to look at that. The first is: there is money left that should actually be spent on care. Then why isn't that happening? But the second is: the main agreements are successful in that they manage to control healthcare expenditure. Then there is the question of why the estimates do not fit in better with that. How's that? It also raises the question that I raised earlier during the Financial Reviews, namely how the Cabinet has incorporated in the budgetary rules outstanding care expenditure. If it is true that care expenditure is structuralally poor, then the level of nominal premiums must also be low; this must be the case. These premiums should therefore increase less than expected. Is that right? What are the expectations based on the windfalls? Then the curious rule for the burden framework comes into view. If nominal premiums are low, this is not an advantage for citizens, but the rate will be increased in the first tranche. When will that happen? A year later? What's the system? First of all, I do not consider this compensatory tax increase to be correct in principle. If we want to make care costs manageable, we need to maintain support and citizens must see the advantage in their wallets. So there's no higher burden if the health benefits aren't too bad. And secondly, why only increase the rate in the first disc? Or can other burden measures be taken? The Study Group on Budgetary Space also saw the problem which cannot be explained by the fact that notable premiums are offset by higher taxes. Can the Minister explain it to me? The study group points out that this remarkable system must nevertheless be maintained, but its reasoning is reversed: if expenditure is higher and premiums increase, it is politically unsustainable not to reduce charges in the light of purchasing power developments. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! Every year we have to ensure a balanced purchasing power development. That does not seem to me to be a sufficient argument for a system that cannot be defended. This is, of course, mainly about the cure. The main agreements are based on cost control in hospitals, for example. We have other problems in the care department. There the quality must be increased, a lot of people must be found in the labour market and wages must be raised to make work attractive. There's actually no insight into the distribution of pros and cons in cure or care. Why not? I would really like the money that is not spent in the care sector to remain available to the sector, for example to improve working conditions, increase wages and ultimately meet the quality framework of care. How does the Minister of Finance view this from the point of view of budgetary policy? Mr. Chairman. I asked earlier in the budgetary rules about the ratio to place policy cuts in gas revenues from Groningen under the expenditure framework. Mr Van Dijck has already mentioned this. A trick I've mentioned before. The Minister has defended this wisely before. However, it is unclear what will happen if we suddenly have to turn off the gas tap in the coming years. The risks are unpredictable. Are we really going to cut back on education or care? Can a fair balance be made in this way if necessary? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few questions about the SDE scheme. The supplementary budget at EZK shows that for the SDE+ scheme, 891 million less is needed in commitment capacity than previously budgeted. This is because the latest tender for wind at sea is opened up without subsidies. Now there are doubts as to whether that can actually be done. Business seems to be withdrawing from such investments. How's the minister looking at this? Then what happens to the 891 million? Will that amount remain available for renewable energy? Given the task we are facing, the cabinet too has great ambitions............................................................................................................................................................................. I'd like an explanation. Finally, I would like to comment on the topical and urgent debate. The Minister said this week that he has no idea why the European Commission wants to look at the tax arrangements of the Netherlands with IKEA, because he has no information, he says, which explains why this construction should be investigated. Is the Minister playing dumb? Research has been done by the Greens in the European Parliament. This shows that tax avoidance structures are involved, and perhaps illegal state aid is involved. Starbucks has been beaten up like this before. In my group's view, therefore, it is absolutely right for the European Commission to examine the agreements with IKEA. Please explain to the Minister what he said. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in order to raise the level of the Minister's knowledge, I can offer him the report of the European Greens on IKEA through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u47	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u48	I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. The latest reports from DNB and the CPB show even better economic growth figures for the coming period. Of course, that's beautiful, but for a lot of people it still doesn't feel that way. The confidence and optimism that was so characteristic for the period at the beginning of this millennium has not yet returned to large groups in our society. Many of the issues in the Navy note relate to the feeling of confidence of the Dutchman in the government. I would like to start with the issues that affect the Dutch's tax morale. The downfall around the gift and inheritance tax is bothering the CDA fraction. People now have to wait much longer for their attempted inheritance tax. That's painful. For example, if you have lost a parent, you want to deal with the administrative burden as quickly as possible and not be confronted with it years after the death. The problem that now suddenly appears, namely that there has been no working inheritance tax system for much longer, which suddenly emerged from the presentation of the Autumn note, shows how persistent and fundamental the problems at the Tax Office are. That is why I want to know what progress has been made in implementing the recommendations of the Committee on Taxation. Are we also at risk of such setbacks in other parts of the Tax Administration? Paying taxes is partly based on trust. That confidence is there because people are counting on being enforced by people who don't take it so closely with the rules; old-fashioned book control, so. If that doesn't happen, it will affect morale to pay taxes. In 2008, the SME compliance deficit was estimated at 2.5 billion, which increased to 3.7 billion in 2014. 40% of SMEs' declarations are likely to contain errors to the detriment of the Treasury. But the number of book checks continues to decrease. Can the Minister respond to this? Is he prepared to make a plan of action to reduce this compliance deficit? It is also important for trust that citizens know that the government is well prepared for the future. To this day no one knows what the Brexit will actually mean for the Netherlands. However, the fact that Dutch products shipped through Harwich are subject to bureaucratic import controls is very likely. And no matter how gradual, structured, soft, hard or chaotic the Brexit becomes, the Netherlands must be prepared for everything. There will be a lot of customs, for example. Can the Minister indicate how the Tax Administration and Customs are preparing for this? In last week's debate, the Prime Minister indicated that there are, in his view, different variants of the ways in which there is a border between the EU, i.e. the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. How far is the cabinet working out the consequences of different Brexit variants? Can a contour note be sent to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018, containing the scenarios for the Brexit and what they mean for Dutch public services? Mr. Chairman. People want to have confidence in our own institutions, but also in European institutions. According to my group, the ECB's monetary policy is on or even over the edge when we look at the mandate given to the ECB. Purchasing programmes affect citizens' sense of savings across the EU. Buying up debts from countries is one thing, but the risk that the ECB, and therefore the Netherlands as a shareholder, runs by buying up debts from companies is many times greater. When you take a risk, you must at least have the courage to be transparent. However, the European Courts are deeply concerned about the ECB's refusal to allow more supervision of its supervisory tasks. Our DNB can be audited by the General Court. The European Court of Auditors cannot do that with the ECB. But worse: DNB is no longer allowed to share ECB data. What role can the cabinet play to improve supervision of central banks? Your trust grows stronger when you know that when you have a difficult task, the government ensures that you are well equipped to accomplish that task, especially when you risk your life for our country. My group is therefore very surprised at the windfall in the defence sector. It is not the first time that my group has drawn attention to the under-exhaustment of defence. For 2017 it is 220 million euros. So while the soldiers don't have ammo for exercises, the money stays on the shelf with the Defense Department. The coalition agreement has been drawn up with the aim of getting the base of the army in order. This will require considerable investment in the coming period. For 2018 it amounts to almost 700 million euros, regardless of the under-exhaustment of 2017. My first question to the Minister is: how can he help to ensure that the defence sector can make the necessary investments in the coming years? The government agreement states that the cabinet will come forward with proposals to increase the predictability and resilience of the Defence Equipment budget, such as a specific price index or a structural solution to currency fluctuations. The CDA attaches great importance to this agreement from the coalition agreement, which is conditional on the restoration of the armed forces. How will the Minister of Finance contribute to this? Finally, at least with regard to defence. My colleague, Mr Omtzigt, has asked questions about the preparedness and equipment of the special forces involved in the fight against terrorism. MARSOF's equipment was specifically discussed. We would receive a letter on this before Christmas. We haven't seen that letter yet. When is this letter coming? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of windfalls, the Autumn note shows a huge windfall in the field of medicines and ggz. According to KNMP Farmanco, the number of medicines temporarily unavailable or unavailable has increased significantly from 305 in 2012 to 1,124 at the moment. Does the windfall in the field of medicine have anything to do with this? Can the Minister explain the background to this windfall in medicines and ggz? Mr. Chairman. I'll conclude. Trust is also: a man a man, a word a word. That brings me to the subject of interest derivatives. Entrepreneurs expect a setup of banks that are in line with their social function and the expectations that have been generated. What's taking so long? Another group of entrepreneurs also lacks confidence, i.e. entrepreneurs whose loan assistance has been waived. At the time of forgiveness, the entire loan assistance of all years belongs to the income for taxes and surcharges. It is then charged, so that people who are just out of debt can go nowhere but to the debt relief. The Chamber unanimously adopted a motion to resolve this problem, including for the group for which the waiver took place from 2014 and which is now out of the question. There is still a need for cover for this. Can the Minister motivate the cost of a solution to a large extent and what ministry is responsible for these costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u50	First of all, welcome to our committee. I believe that this is Mr Slootweg's first appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u51	On this committee, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u52	On this committee, yes. That's why it's a bit of a fire test after all. Then I also grant him this interruption from my side! 'Cause I remember something. I think Mr Balkenende was the inventor of "after the acid it comes sweet."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u53	That was Mr Donner, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u54	Oh, Mr. Donner. At least it came from the CDA angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u56	We've had a lot of acid all over us in recent years, in the crisis. Now it's a little better. Does Mr Slootweg also recognise that citizens do not actually benefit from this economic revival?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u57	When you say "the citizen," it's too common, I guess. You can see that more and more people have been given jobs in recent years. That is often not a permanent job, as we hope, but a flexible one. But it's a job. I think the figures show that purchasing power is simply lagging behind. If that feeling of trust is to come back, then it is necessary to feel it in the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u58	But that is precisely my point, because purchasing power will indeed improve by 0.6% next year. For the year after that, 2019, an improvement of 1.4% is projected. But what I have just said in my own contribution: if wages do not rise by 3.5%, it will be 1.4%. Well, you can assume that. In other words, what does the CDA think of us having a growth rate of 3%, that this minister's money is plotting against the plinths, that everyone benefits and everyone is in a cheerful mood, while the citizens who actually achieved that growth are being wiped out with a crumb of less than half a percent? The CDA can't let that get over him! So my question is: what is the CDA going to do to really fix that purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think that in essence, when it comes to purchasing power, the role of the government is always a limited one. In the first instance, this must be achieved in the negotiations between unions and employers. I understand that even employers are concerned that this purchasing power is not being achieved. I think they also have a role to play in ensuring that this will happen. I would point out that this cabinet has taken a number of measures with the adjustment of the tax system. Then you will say: that has been particularly forward-looking. I believe that this cabinet has, after all, intended that there can be an improvement in purchasing power for most groups within that margin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u60	I have a question on the same subject, but a little more specific. Mr Slootweg indicated that the government had a limited influence on purchasing power. This is, of course, true in general. But there are direct measures that affect people. For example, the savings on the rent surcharge affect the tenants, up to €100 per year. If you only have AOW or a welfare allowance, that's a lot. I have just heard the spokesperson of the VVD argue for a windfall formula. The economy is doing very well. Is there any discussion with the CDA about the possibility of getting that cut off the rent allowance, not putting the tenants so far behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u61	I would like to say to Mr Nijboer that you can take a measure every time and then say afterwards that it is very negative, but I would like to take the whole set of measures in the purchasing power picture. That's the first thing. Secondly, I would like to point out that at WHO Living, I believe Chamberwide, we have looked at how we can manage this in the most social way possible in the future. That was not so much about the point of the rent payment, but was a general point at the block Living. I would therefore not argue in favour of looking only at the individual measure of the rent payment but at the purchasing power scale. I cannot do that now, because then it really comes down to a practical proposal that we could say yes or no to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u62	If you look wide, and I'm happy to do so, you'll see that buyers will progress on average 1.4% over the next few years and tenants 0.8%. That's just over half of it. So they're really lagging behind. As far as buyers are concerned, the cabinet has said that if we reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction and abolish the Hills Act, they will get it back one-on-one, euro for euro, percent by percent. And with the tenants, there's just a cold cut. So even if you look wide, there is no argument to allow such a cut in the rent payment to take place. And economically, it's going well. There's no argument to do that. That is precisely why I ask you to do so. I have indeed heard the CDA Group say nice things about the landlord levy. I've complimented you for that, too. I know that's probably not going to happen today, but I'm looking for an opening here next year, if that law comes, to make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u63	When it comes to looking to the future, I think we just want to go straight ahead and take that seriously. There is indeed a difference between 1.4% progress for buyers and 0.8% progress for tenants, but I am pleased that you acknowledge that progress has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u64	It would be quite an achievement to let them go backwards at this time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u65	Well, the Nibud also showed me that there are still groups that do not improve in the Netherlands, even though you try to do a lot for that. It's a limited group, but still. That is why I do not want to give the general picture that everyone is making progress. The dynamics, of course, always ensure that there can be individual cases that go backwards. Even in times of high economy, people will lose jobs and thereby lose their purchasing power. So when it comes to the balanced purchasing power policy, the PvdA and the CDA will undoubtedly make different choices. Wherever the PvdA will also say: we find it a bit strange that with this wind so much goes to the buyers and so little to the tenants. In general terms, I also believe that the measures taken in the past period will continue to work in the future. In addition, the CDA still considers it important that in the future people still have the opportunity to buy a house. Then I don't think it's so crazy that it's gonna turn out like this. However, we will also have to look further in the forthcoming debates and in the years to come at the exact outcome of this distribution. But I fully understand Mr Nijboer's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you. Had you come to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u67	I had a few more... how shall I put it, let me call it phrases with which I wanted to finish my story. The motion on loan assistance requested that solutions be sent to the Chamber before 1 April 2018. Our question is, is there a workable solution for this group, the people who depend on loan assistance, before 1 April of next year? I'll conclude. There are many aspects to trust. That has to do with giving and getting. Knowing that wrong behavior can be addressed, that if something goes wrong it is reported quickly, that when you take a risk you are sufficiently equipped to cope with the danger. In our opinion, the Autumn paper provides a basis for making good intentions for 2018 in order to strengthen this trust between the government and its citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding the debate on the Navy Note, where the Chamber controls the government for how things are introduced and spent. That is, of course, important. It's actually like a house. You've got a door for income and you've got a door for spending. In that house, there's a little club at the table that decides about the money. But all the inhabitants of the Netherlands live in that house. Those who are hungry, those who are busy because they are in front of the classroom. Those who see that they have fewer and fewer colleagues for street safety. Those who can't find a place to live, those who can't afford the cost of care. Older people who see that after the death of their partner the stair lift is removed with care within a week and is discarded. There are also people in that house who have wealth. It's true that two thirds of that wealth, like a cake, goes to 10% of that house and the people in it. The rest of the people in that house, 90%, can fight over that other third part. It is a house in which deals are also made with multinationals to pay as little tax as possible. Deals that can't be accepted, which this Chamber would like to control. We are not getting any information, because nothing is being said about individual tax deals, but those deals are now being examined by the European Commission. There's a problem there. I want to know from the Minister how he looks at that. Why should the European Commission solve our democratic deficit? Why can't the Room just check it out? That's actually not good. But we're talking about that house. Now the people sitting at the table, who are talking about the distribution of that money, say: everyone is getting better. Sounds good, doesn't it, Mr. Chairman? Everyone's getting better. But it's not. We're just getting word that the rent supplement's dropping. We know people are being bullied with a bully discount. People who are disabled and who have a Wajong benefit are simply reduced by 5%, because they cannot work according to the potential we may have. They're about to take action at 11:30, I think. I would have hoped that this debate would have been completed by then. Then the minister could have given a hand to his fellow residents of the house. Then he could have explained: yes, I brief you. It's bullying about the SP. That is why we have put forward a proposal not to allow this bullying discount to continue. Mr. Chairman. When you sit at that table, of course, you want to know what comes in. You want to know what there is to distribute and what can be spent. But now we are told by the General Court, which helps us check a lot of things, that non-tax receipts are reported to us so late that we can't do anything with them. Then it really is about 600 million or 700 million a year; last year it was even 2.1 billion. So there is money, but we don't know. We can't control it right now. I want to know from the Minister how he's gonna solve that. As Minister of Finance, he can divide up a lot at that table, but he still has us to check it out. Same goes for what comes in. The tax arrangements have also been listed by the General Court. It's about a lot of money, almost 100 billion. We don't really know if they work or how they work. When it comes to donating, for example, a button is turned and less revenue is expected. That's gonna blow through the roof. That's not really good, is it? Nor is it right that an error in the purchase of a computer means that the same amount of 450 million is not collected. The Tax Office should collect the taxes that we believe are fair here. We can have a big debate on that. We will have that debate with the Secretary of State. But the IRS can't do it. It's not the first thing we see. That's really bad, isn't it? So there are people in that house at the table who do say: we expect something to come in, but whoever has to bring it in can't do it. I'd like to know from the Minister what he's going to do about it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the cost of care. Since 2000, the income of the AWBZ premium, today the premium for the Long-Term Care Act, and the expenses have been decoupled. This means that 9 billion to 10 billion more is coming in every year, more is being collected than there is going to care at all, while it is being said to all the people in the house: you pay up to €250 per month in AWBZ premium. It's a little lower by now, because they've pulled a lot out of that law. A calculation has been made showing that those who pay most to AWBZ premium pay 9%. This was in 2012 in a letter from former Secretary of State Van Rijn. While we all see in our paychecks that we pay 13,65%. That's not right. You can't tell people you're paying for the care, but it's not going there. Why isn't it right? Because people are willing to pay for the care. That's what every investigation shows. But they're also having a hard time with the cost of care. Then we'll get to the Health Insurance Act. We gave it away in 2006. That's what health insurers are about. There's more reserves. There is a premium that is €100 too expensive. And then we get to the state budget. That leaves 2.4 billion. You've paid care contributions and taxes. You have a higher risk, because the estimates lead to the level of one's own risk. But what do we do with the money? That goes to the general funds and to the state treasury. That can be a great destination, but then you're not gonna tell people that they pay so much care costs. I want to agree with this minister that we're going to do it differently. Now, if there's a shortage of money, people have to cash in, but if there's money left, they won't get it back. Then it's fetish. I don't think that's possible. We all know that the care costs used to run through a fund. That wasn't rich budget money. It was drawn into the rich budget so that we could participate in the euro. But the fact that the money doesn't stay there, so it doesn't remain available for the care, I really find a problem. That affects trust in the government. If things go badly, everyone has to tighten the belt, but if things go well, not everyone will see the fruits of it. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at the stewardship. I like that subject for a CDA treasurer. Is stewardship just the sovereign debt you leave behind the next generation, or also society and how we manage things? Does stewardship, for example, mean that you allow child poverty to exist, or that you let it exist that children can't go to Christmas dinner because parents can't pay the voluntary contribution? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. After the positive messages from De Nederlandsche Bank on Monday, this morning the Central Planning Bureau came forward with its prospects for 2018. We also saw a bright picture in this estimate: growth is rising to 3.2%, unemployment is falling to 3.9%, the lowest in ten years. Households get to spend more. There is also a festive message for public finances: the balance improves, debt decreases. I wouldn't exaggerate if I said that the Dutch economy is doing well. But let us not stare blindly at those statistics, but think about what they stand for. My fellow Members have already said this in their comments. In this debate, I would particularly like to look at what is happening under the hood of public finances. Under that hood we see that many budgets have not fully used up the budget. Under the heading of the Autumn Note, there are many different things, delayed and thus advanced spending, cheaper execution, overestimated costs, receipts still to come, and subsidy options that proved to be greater than demand. But many of these under-utilisations, certainly not all, but still many, are actually missed opportunities in disguise because we, as a Chamber, have approved the adoption of a budget to spend taxpayers' money on social or economic goals. Then it is disappointing when it turns out that the money is not used for that. To put it bluntly, one of them is the other one's non-granted teacher's scholarship. That is why I ask the Minister what further analyses he has of these failures. What percentage is that missed opportunity and what are delays or effective executions, which would be very positive? What percentage of these failures is incidental or cyclical and which part is structural? I would like to know this because we can therefore give a more realistic estimate, so that we can also include these funds in the overall consideration we make in order to be able to use the money usefully. An example of this is the careful estimate of non-tax revenue or, as the General Court suggests, the somewhat too cautious estimate, which actually means that windfalls are already included in the budget. That observation deserves a serious answer following me. The Minister has also indicated that he is in the process of an analysis. When can he share it with the Chamber? Can he include a table of how this has happened over the past four years? When did it become apparent that afterward more than budgeted came in? Then we can discuss that here, too. When I look at the shortcomings that are already reported in the Autumn note, it seems that there will be more towards the end of the year. Despite this, the Minister has already fully completed the assignment in the Autumn Note, rather than trying, for example, to make effective use of the failures in the last few months of this year. Why did the Minister choose this? Is he really not expecting any more shortcomings between the Autumn note and the final laws, or is there another reasoning that I can use and which he has also used? By the end of the year, all departments may carry 1% of their unspent funds to 2018. That's the end of the year margin. Some resources are excluded from this, such as the investment funds for the defence sector and all the resources still in the supplementary post with this minister. I ask the Minister to include transparency in the annual report and to send an overview with all the exceptions to the regular end-of-year margin, including the cash slips from 2017 to 2018 that have already been included here. I would also ask for a breakdown by budget of the funds paid out from the supplementary budget. I am asking for transparency, but I am also asking for transparency in view of the European rules, which we are sanding against next year, as I read in the Minister's replies. The structural balance should improve by 0.5% of GDP each year. I want to avoid that by pushing things forward from this year to 2018, spending will, as it were, hit that limit via a bow wave in that year. I'm also asking the Minister if he sees that risk with me. If so, what is he going to do to fit that in? Then I come to a number of specific items in the Navy's note. First of all, a remarkable one, which Mr Slootweg mentioned: 700 million in healthcare. That item is actually fairly briefly explained. On the one hand, the Minister is absolutely unable to distinguish between ggz and medicines. On the other hand, it is quite clear that 700 million is easy. That is a little unsatisfactory, I think, for this Minister too. That is why my question to him is: what are the underlying causes of these adjustments and what are the expectations for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's not 700 million, it's 2.4 billion. Only, 1.7 billion was already expected. People are told to pay the premium. Its own risk is linked to that premium and people pay it. They are also willing to pay for care, according to any research. They are prepared to show solidarity with those who are ill. But in the end, the 2.4 billion will be for another destination. What does Mr Sneller think of that? That is not really a sound budgetary policy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think it is very good to separate income and expenditure and that everyone ultimately benefits from having a careful budgetary policy here. In response to what Mr Snels has just said, I do think that there are opportunities to improve that support by ensuring that we use any windfalls carefully and use them usefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u74	Before joining the euro, there were separate funds for the health care funds, but also for the AOW, for example. They weren't part of the state budget. They have been introduced so that we can participate in the euro. But the reason why this is now is also that we are making under-utilization disappear in general resources. But if there's a shortage, the care premium goes up. I think you should let this be communicating vessels. When it's over, people get it back or you save it for the future. If there's a shortage, we're gonna have to add up. Would D66 be willing to investigate and prepare it in the near future? Then we do not need to have a discussion about that door of revenue and that door of expenditure. I still have some ideas about how crooked that actually is. But if it is specifically about this concern, which is always said, "Oh, it's all too expensive, ooh, we have to cut back" while billions are left year by year, let's say: okay, when it's over we reserve it and if there's a shortage, you pay extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think I'm sticking to the separation between income and expenditure. I do think that Mrs Hennis' suggestion to look at what we do next with windfalls is a good one and that we can have good debates about it in the coming period. I'd just think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u76	That's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u77	Okay, then perhaps Mrs Leijten can repeat the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u78	Is D66 willing to think about recreating funds for care, so you don't eat when it's too much, but ask citizens to fit in when there's a shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u79	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u80	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u81	The question was wrapped up in a whole argument, so I had not answered the question about the funds. Mr President, then the Antilles. 617 million have been made available for reconstruction on Saint Martin, Saba and Saint Eustatius, a substantial part of the budget which is covered by a considerable under-utilisation, but it is an important use. We must ensure that the people who live there receive help as soon as possible, but also that there are clear agreements on spending and that there is coordination between them. As far as I am concerned, this is done through a central article. That is where all the resources come together, including those from other budgets that contribute to the recovery, so that it can be well followed. How does the Minister see this? Then there's loan assistance. Mr Slootweg mentioned him as well. The cabinet has been chewing on a loan assistance solution for some time. Self-employed people used to get into trouble when their income turned out to be too low and their assistance turned into a gift, which meant that they lost their entitlement to allowances and had to repay them afterwards. Some of them have even ended up in debt restructuring. For new cases there is now a solution, but for a group that got into trouble between 2014 and 2017, not yet. I see a problem that still needs to be resolved, and I see money within the year-end margins of the ministries concerned which I believe could be used in proportion to that. My proposal would therefore be to reserve within that end-of-year margin the budget available in proportion to the 2018 budget of the various ministries, so that we can help these self-employed people as quickly as possible. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. Today we are delighted by the CPB with nice figures for under the Christmas tree, but I still think I will use the Christmas tree to think about how we can invest better and smarter in society, in order to make the most effective use of the tax money entrusted to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the news from today's General Daily, the cut on the rent allowance. I do so because I asked the Minister of the Interior a few very simple questions in the course of the examination of the Tax Plan and the Minister of Finance and the budget, to which I have still not received an answer. I really want an answer to that today, because I do not want a Member of Parliament constantly being sent from the cabinet to the wall to answer serious questions about measures that affect people. One: why is the cabinet cutting back on tenants in these times? Two: why does the cabinet refer to the general purchasing power picture that would be so great, where buyers advance 1.4% and tenants 0.8%? The tenants are really put behind schedule and get about half of what the buyers get. Then why cut the rent payment? And three: are the figures calculated by the House Union, €94 per tenant, the lowest income, people living on welfare or only have AOW? Do those numbers make sense? And finally, why does the Minister of the Interior indicate this morning on Radio 1: people have to find a job, they have to knock on the door of the Minister of Social Affairs from the next locker to the next wall, then they get a job, while there are just people with only AOW, who can't find a job at all? While there are also disabled people who receive rent payments and live in a rental house? Why are such arguments given on the radio? Why is there no explanation in the Chamber that Members of Parliament, including myself, ask for time and time again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mrs. Hennis has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. Of course, Mr Nijboer is entitled to an explanation from this cabinet in response to his questions about the rent allowance. But what I am always calling for, and this is also because of your input into the General Financial Reviews, is that you are talking about cuts, while I think you know very well, at least that is my question to Mr Nijboer.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u86	On balance... There are two things being done with the rent allowance. I have praised the Cabinet for one of them, and I will now do so, namely the phasing-out. Sometimes when you get a higher income, you get one more euro, but you lose a lot of rent bonus. That will be abolished, and that will also cost about EUR 70 million. I commend the cabinet for that, and I think that's very good. But there is also a saving of 138 million. And on balance there is also a cut on the tenants, because 70 million is added and 138 million goes down. On balance, tenants will have to pay more later. That is unfair and unfair to me, and I appeal to the cabinet. I have asked the cabinet again and again what these tenants cost on average to income group. What is the cost of welfare recipients? But I can't get an answer. The Minister says go to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says go to the Home Secretary. And he says, "Wait for the bill." Now it's time to give answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u87	I say again that Mr Nijboer really deserves answers and clear answers to all the questions he asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u88	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u89	It is also to his credit that he once again praises the cabinet for stepping up the rent allowance. However, I would like to hear him very clearly. The point he's making has to do with the can-determine. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u91	The current legislation provides that this standard rental is indexed with the lowest of either the development of the assistance or the development of the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u92	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u93	My question to Mr Nijboer is how logical it is that we have incorporated that possibility into legislation and regulations at all. And does Mr Nijboer agree with me that by choosing the lowest of the two indexation options per year, the indexation of the standard rent in the rent surcharge is really far below the development of rental prices? That too is a real demand and a real problem. I would therefore like to hear a response from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yeah, it's obvious that I think it's very logical that you look at what tenants really experience in their income. In fact, it was at that time an amendment by the CDA which the PvdA wholeheartedly supported. As the rents increase more, what has happened in recent years, the rent allowance also needs to increase more. If the welfare payments are lagging behind, it is reasonable to compensate a little for this through the rent allowance. And the Cabinet abolishes it. That's a cut. It's possible. I don't understand why that happens, especially in these times. So I totally disagree. I'm very much in favour of the current system in which you compensate tenants as the rents rise more. In addition, you should not only follow inflation. This is a bit of the discussion in the past about decoupling. That was also a very big political discussion. He's been away a little bit. I am very much in favour of keeping the link to the real prices that tenants experience and adding to that the rent surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr President, I would like to make a final point. I say again that Mr Nijboer deserves answers to his questions. The VVD believes that it is high time that this can be removed and that we look at what makes sense in legislation and regulation and its design, and that we make it clearer for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u96	Make sense? It is clear that a tenant who has only AOW or a welfare allowance has to return €94 per year. And I get that from the VVD. Well, I don't really get it, but I get it from an ideological point of view. The VVD is just a right-wing party: we cut back and you save your ass. Well, that's not what the PvdA's for. That's where we fight each other. I know that the Christian Union has been fighting this for years. I know that there is room at the CDA as well; I have just spoken about this in an interruption. I am not surprised that the VVD feels this way, but I think it is a bad measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr President, this was entrapment, so I would like to respond. Mr Nijboer is talking about the right-wing party that is only making cuts. But also tenants benefit from a lower ib; let that be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes, but buyers are really compensated one-on-one, cent by cent, euro for euro fiscally. And I get it, because the VVD did their best to do that. Of course, that's what this discussion was about Hillen. But tenants stand at a net cut. I think that's really unfair and unfair. This happens when there is a lot of money to distribute. Mr President, I come to my second point. Both the Study Group on Budgets and the CPB again today, say: 'The Netherlands look out, because in the event of high economics you throw oil on the fire and in the case of low economics you actually cut too hard.' I just wanted to ask the Minister of Finance how he looks at that. And what does he intend to do about it? I heard a windfall formula coming from the VVD, but this requires a very precise look. I don't understand why, in times of high economics and in times when companies are doing very well, certainly large companies have a lot of money on the balance sheet, you're giving a lot of relief to business. Then you stimulate while things are going really well and with a tight labour market. That's so stupid. I refer to the percentage points reduction in the VPB, the abolition of the dividend tax. I don't get it. I get it better when it comes to people's purchasing power. This purchasing power is under pressure; the PVV has just asked for it. It works very differently when it comes to spending. This is why we had to decide much earlier on those district nurses and extra nurses in the nursing homes, because it takes years to spend that money, so that it can be planned much less well. Actually, the cabinet is doing it exactly the wrong way. The VVD just gave us a preposition: we should actually go even harder that way. I do find it interesting to hear from the Minister what you should do to stabilize that a little bit, to slow down the boom bust economy that we have become a little bit. I have some ideas about that. I would make long-term investments in education in good times. That should appeal to D66. It is precisely load relief that you can use when things are less good, which you can quickly use when the economy is off the rails. It's actually the exact opposite of what's happening. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting lucky in health care. Mrs Leijten added it up for a while: it has become 700 million more than was foreseen. It's nice if that's from medicine and pharmacy, but I want to know which part it's about, because that's not broken down. Part of it comes from the ggz. That's what I'm worried about, because there's just waiting lists. It is a bit the same point that Mr Sneller made about education: if there is under-utilisation, people are simply not being helped. They have mental problems and they don't get helped when they should. Then that is very worrying and then it should actually be spent, then people should be attracted to it. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of Mr Wiebes, who has been to Groningen a number of times and has indicated that gas extraction really needs to go further down, for which he would do his best. Well, that wholeheartedly supports the PvdA Group. And together with GroenLinks, we have submitted a motion to the general financial considerations not to place the proceeds from gas extraction under the frameworks. That just means that on police, on security, on education, on defense, if the gas extraction in Groningen is reduced. Now the cabinet intends to do so, because Minister Wiebes said we should go beyond what we had foreseen. Earlier, that was just in the balance. Plenty of space, we see in the CPB figures today. And now we're gonna have to cut back. What is the Minister going to cut if gas extraction in Groningen goes down, as the Minister for Economic Affairs has informed the Chamber? It wasn't my choice, but well, the Minister wanted to, so I'd like to know who's going to take the fall for that now. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the point of derivatives. The CDA Group has already said something about this. The Minister inherited that, so I personally do not charge him at all. He's just getting a file like that on his plate. But what is miserable and really bad is that bankers can always argue why there is delay and why SMEs are not compensated. If we don't watch out, it's gonna run for one, two, three years, and there's no sanction. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he wants to think about a sanction for bankers. That can be in all kinds of forms. For example, you can pay a penalty rate to SMEs if they have to wait too long. A sanction that works well with bankers in my experience is just that whole department doesn't pay out bonuses. The Minister can also appeal to that. You could also extend the duty of care, but it must be something they feel. But now we're just getting some lame statements like Room why it's not being compensated, but they don't feel anything. SMEs are suffering from misery and bankers are not aware of it. I don't think that's effective. Would the Minister care to think about that? Finally, Mr President, my final point concerns this week's news that the European Commission is investigating the tax benefits and state aid that IKEA would benefit from in the Netherlands. The Minister said that I am speaking to him: I have no idea where it comes from. GroenLinks just said the same thing. While we have just received a letter from the Secretary of State stating precisely what it was about, namely the purchase price of intellectual property and the transfer prices charged. One will be too high and the other too low, then you could pay little tax in the Netherlands. Is the secretary playing hide-and-seek? Doesn't he read the Secretary of State's letters? How am I supposed to explain that when he's at RTL saying that? 'Cause he knows pretty well what the problem is, doesn't he? That's gotta be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u100	Madam President. The fact that the State is making financial progress is again clear from the Navy's note we are discussing. It is underlined in the December estimate published this morning by the Central Planning Bureau. The Dutch balances and debt contrast positively with the European averages and we are building up budgetary space at a reasonable pace to cope with a further economic shock. The picture of under- and exceeding the various expenditure frameworks is not surprising and that Defence stands out in terms of under-exhaustment, of course, is not unknown either. What I, like some of my colleagues, want to break over the staff is the way things are going with regard to the income framework. The total tax and contribution revenue may have increased slightly, but what happens with the gift and inheritance tax is, of course, remarkably remarkable: 450 million less revenue. Then we're talking about a quarter less revenue. Not because there are relatively few people with money who have died this year, but because the inning is not in order. During the AO Tax Office, the Secretary of State promised us a factual account. But when I read in the answers to the actual questions that the current estimate is that the delay in 2017 will be overtaken in 2018, that does not sound exactly as a reassuring guarantee. Can the Minister, on behalf of the Secretary of State, give it to you? Is the inning in 2018 all right and do we really get the damage that has been incurred? Or, over time, will it prove that some of it is irrecoverable, as with many wrongly paid supplements, which I will not tire the Minister with today? Mr. Chairman. A completely different subject: non-tax revenue. Mr Sneller has already mentioned this. The General Court notes that ministries are structurally under-budgeting non-tax revenue. Conservative burying is good. Too conservative burying is not good. Is the Minister of Finance prepared, as recommended by the General Court, to examine, from the point of view of the supervision of the state budget, where the more and less revenue comes from and what happens annually with any additional revenue? Mrs Leijten has already mentioned this. Is the Minister prepared to provide the trade ministers with clearer budgetary rules in the coming year? Is he prepared to make an extra effort, together with the trade ministers, to provide the most realistic estimate of the non-tax revenue for 2018? Does he dare to challenge not let the deviation be greater than, say, EUR 100 million? Mr. Chairman. The cash and liability system used by the Empire has many advantages but also disadvantages, such as the annual December fever in ministries. In order not to increase this December fever too high, ministries work with an end-of-year margin. Part of the budget may be transferred to the following year. If the end-of-year margin, i.e. the under-exhaustment, is the same every year, there is a so-called in=exhaustment. This makes it the counterpart of the end-of-year margin. In recent years, it seems that there have been different ways of dealing with this in=terminal. Mr Sneller had already noticed this, who spoke about it in his speech. What exactly is it about? The Minister makes a brief reference to it in replying to the factual questions, but I would like to look forward to a further reflection. I would like to know and also understand to what extent the phrase "the space under the overall framework has been used to fill in the in=terminal" is common under Table 2.2. Or is that typically something a cabinet does in its final year for which the expenditure frameworks have been established by government agreement? Is it not better to follow a fixed system for the in=terminal, I ask the Minister. Madam President, so much for my first-term contribution. I look forward to the answer with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u102	After the suspension follows first the arrangement and then we continue with the first term on the cabinet side.
