ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Every year, 7 000 children are forced to go to women's care or social care. They often come from difficult home situations where there is abuse, neglect or sexual abuse. They often end up in care services that are not child-friendly and often do not receive the right help or help at all. They sometimes feel like luggage. In the week of the forgotten child, I would like a solution for this. What these children need is recognition, professional help from a psychiatrist or a psychologist, space to play and develop, and space to be a child. The argument that if Mommy's okay, the kid's gonna be okay too, doesn't add up. We need to see what the child needs. If we do not invest in the child now, we will know that problems arise at a later age. Fortunately there are places in the Netherlands where it does succeed like Het Kopland in Groningen and Emmen. Most of the time, funding goes wrong. The money earmarked for the child under the Youth Act does not seem to end up in the care facility. So there is a lack of bundled funding of the WMO and the Youth Act. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this is a problem and that this has been the case for years? D66 considers it important to have integrated policies in the municipalities where mother and child receive appropriate care and support. D66 wants structural funding for these 7,000 children, professional help for every child in the care facility and for every child to be taken care of in a child-friendly and safe environment so that it can develop. Can the Secretary of State undertake this today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think it is important with Mrs Bergkamp that children and young people who end up in the women's shelter should be seen as independent individuals and that they should be given tailor-made care, including as children. I have already made the necessary efforts in recent years to improve the position of children in care. With funding from VWS, the Federation Opvang has developed the method of Resilience. This method is not only aimed at reception, but rather at enabling aid workers in the care facility to draw up an individual plan for each child. The position of children and young people has been part of the quality impulse for women's care. I have made 10 million extra available for the women's shelter under the condition that extra attention will be paid to the children. I am in consultation with the VNG, the municipalities, the Federation Reception and the various funds, including The Forgotten Child, to look at the obstacles in practice. Indeed, as Mrs Bergkamp quite rightly points out, things are sometimes going very well, as in Groningen and Emmen, where the Kinderombudsman even awarded an award to Het Kopland. If I interpret Mrs Bergkamp's questions correctly, and if I look at the state of affairs in this way, even if you look at the framework conditions, the municipalities have all the instruments in their hands to take a good step here. Firstly, decentralisation, youth aid, social care, women's care and a number of measures relating to living and participation have brought together. So an integral policy is possible. Secondly, there is a quality framework within which we can ask professionals to provide good care to children in women's care. I also think it is important for the industry organisation, the Federation of Reception, to pay more attention to this. Extra money has been made available. There are some good examples. So I do think that with the VNG, the Federation of Receptions, the Foundation Het Het Vergeten Kind and experience experts, with whom I will be speaking again next week, we will look at concrete obstacles to implementing this integrated policy. The conditions are there. Practice also shows that it is possible. This means that the municipalities and the professionals can be asked to make an effort to achieve this throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	It's kind of a weird situation, isn't it? I agree with the Secretary of State that all the ingredients are present. The municipality is responsible for the Social Support Act. This includes social care and women's care. The municipality is also responsible for the Youth Act. This includes all support and guidance for children and young people under the age of 18. There is extra funding and yet in practice there are a lot of municipalities where no care is given to the child, because it is thought that women are in the women's shelter. The child dangles there, quite frankly, a little bit at the bottom. It gets a little help sometimes, but certainly not professional help. There are nice methods, like Resilience. Then my question to the Secretary of State is how it is possible that all the ingredients are present, but that we are not getting it off the ground. Yesterday I had talks with young people who, from their own experience, indicated that it simply does not happen in practice. I appeal to this Secretary of State for his system responsibility. If it's one municipality that doesn't take care of it, I think it's an incident, but there are so many center municipalities where it doesn't get off the ground. So I'm addressing this secretary of state why we can't do it. What is his role from his system responsibility? Can the Secretary of State promise that we will have resolved it within a month, so that every centre municipality has an integral policy with structural funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	I have ensured that all system responsibilities have "replaced" by saying that there is a possibility of an integrated policy. Extra money has been made available. There are a number of conditions under which you spend that money. This is a problem we've been talking about for years and I don't have the illusion that it'll be settled in a month. I do think that now that the system responsibilities are 'instead' we have really managed over the past period so that we can appeal to the professionals, the healthcare providers, and the municipalities for a proper functioning. The responsibility of the municipalities is indeed the practice. So I am very willing to look with the VNG and with the Federation Reception to see where things are going well and where things are not going well. Where things are not going well, I will call on either the healthcare providers or the municipalities to make sure that they are going to be okay. That seems to me to be in line with my system responsibility, but I do not have the illusion that this will be resolved within a month. This will depend on the practical situation. You will always see that there are very good pioneers, who are already doing very well and that there are people who are lagging behind, who need to give you a hand. I am very willing to do so, and I will continue to do so together with the Federation Reception, the VNG and the Foundation The Forgotten Child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State says it won't work in a month. I am glad that he recognizes the problem and that he talks with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and with the organisations that are very busy working on it. However, I would like an even more concrete commitment from this Secretary of State. He himself indicates that everyone wants it and that the ingredients are there, but that it doesn't happen. Can the Secretary of State state state what his objective is? In the week of The Forgotten Child it would be very nice if he could give a commitment on what time he will realize this and that he will appeal to congregations. I agree with him that this is his system responsibility, but I would like to challenge him to be more concrete, because every child who falls between shore and ship is one too many for the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	I agree with the latter. I believe that in some time we will have a debate on the situation in the field of youth aid. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that I will understand myself with the Federation of Reception, the VNG and the Foundation for the Forgotten Child, to see what efforts are needed to improve that practice and to see how long it could be done. Then I can inform Mrs Bergkamp and the Chamber more about this in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	When will that letter arrive? I can just say that in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	You have seven seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	I don't know when that debate is, but I thought it was the 23rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u10	February 23rd, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u12	I see the Secretary of State telling me what he often says: how the system works, that he's in conversation and that he's made extra money available. And still things keep going wrong. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this may have to do with the fact that municipalities have been given too many tasks in too short a time. Therefore, it is also a hell of a job for them to get it all in order. Is there also a task here for inspection, for example? You can talk until you fall down, but if in practice care for these children doesn't improve and no one controls it, you end up getting nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u13	I do not hear Mrs Keijzer's argument from the many aldermen who are working on this, and many aldermen from the CDA are also present. For a long time, the focus in women's care was primarily on care, ensuring a safe situation. Slowly but surely, fortunately the latter too, other quality requirements are set at the women's shelter, especially when there are children present. As is well known, it has often started as a crisis shelter and has often become an emergency shelter. Now you see that the quality of the women's shelter improves. A lot of aldermen are working on that. This has nothing to do with decentralisation, because women's care was already part of the municipality. Youth aid has now been added. This gives the municipality more opportunities than before to pursue integrated policies than less. I see that many aldermen are doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
