ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u1	Good evening. The next item is the 30-member debate on leaked documents on the trade agreement between Japan and the European Union. I warmly welcome the Foreign Trade Minister. Of course, welcome to Members and welcome to those who follow this debate in a different way than here in plenary. I should like to give the floor first to Mr Hijink. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time for a 30-member debate is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u2	Thank you, Mr President. There is a rush to conclude trade agreements. CETA, the agreement between the EU and Canada, has largely entered into force since last week, by the way, without our expressing our views as a parliament. An agreement in principle on another treaty was reached at the beginning of July. The European Union and Japan are going to liberalise their markets and trade with each other. Like CETA, Jefta, as the treaty with Japan is called, responds above all to the wishes of business. From the documents we have seen so far, it is clear that the agreements on sustainability and workers' rights are very vague and non-binding. Competition on prices is getting harder, but firm agreements on wages and working conditions are not being made. The chapter on sustainability and social policy reads as a mandatory annex. As strong as the trade agreements are, the agreements on clean production, animal welfare and workers' social rights are as soft. Does this perhaps remind the Minister of the agreements they were made in CETA? Is it true, as Follow the Money wrote yesterday, that the Netherlands itself was at the forefront of stopping binding agreements on social policy and sustainability in CETA? Is that what happened with the treaty with Japan? How is this compatible with the ambitions that this minister himself claims to have for the reset of trade and fair globalisation? Is she just saying this for the stage, or is she serious? I'd like a response. The draft agreement states that countries retain the right to regulate, but also that legislation should not lead to unlawful exclusion from the counterparty. How does the Minister see that? If we have formed a government together with the Animal Party, can we still impose stricter requirements for animal welfare and social rights? Or are we going to have a fight with Brussels and Tokyo, or perhaps even a whole bunch of angry companies on our doorstep? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Japan has not signed the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, against forced labour and discrimination. It doesn't have to do that under this treaty either. How's that? What does this mean for the production of Japanese products and unfair competition for workers, for example the European car industry? More growth, more world trade and more exports seem to have become an end in themselves, a mere financial balance. But globalisation also has consequences for which advocates have no regard, such as economies of scale, environmental pollution, profitability thinking and more competition on wages and working conditions. This is going to harm society, but in the assessment of trade agreements it hardly seems to play a role for the government. For example, the trade agreement with Japan is at the expense of small farmers and family businesses in Japan. European workers in the automotive industry face more competition, and hence worse working conditions and more pressure on their wages. The SP is in favour of mutual trade, but it must be mutually beneficial. People must always stand above the markets, and never the other way around. Mutual trade must serve people and the environment, not the profits of a small group. Unfortunately, that is the group most served by this trade agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u3	Thank you. For the record, this evening we are discussing leaked documents on the trade agreement between Japan and the European Union. I also heard a few other connections being reported. It is up to the Minister to comment on this in detail, because there will soon be a general consultation. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, who speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In Belgium, someone has taken the initiative to organise a benefit breakfast for animal welfare. There was a fuss about that, because the flyer had bacon and eggs on it. That's what everybody said: what's wrong with this picture; you're doing something for animal welfare and you're going to eat those animals? Fortunately, that is being restored a little bit, but it reminded me of the promises about free trade that are always being poured out on us. It would contribute to improving human rights. It would contribute to sustainability, animal welfare and transparency. But if you look at the leaked documents that Greenpeace has brought out, then we see that the European Commission is not fulfilling that promise of transparency at all, that despite the promise that those documents would be made public, they have been dealt in secret and wheeled. The promise about sustainability: yes, there will be a sustainability chapter. What exactly are we supposed to believe about that? Do we have to applaud the fact that both Japan and the European Commission say that they will comply with the Paris Convention on Climate Change? But that was already promised, wasn't it? I thought we were gonna do that. That's what our signature's under, isn't it? The conclusion of civil society organisations is that CO emissions resulting from the free trade with Japan proposed by this Treaty are only rising, while it is already a huge challenge to reduce these CO emissions. An appropriate point for the Dutch cabinet to ensure that Japan respects the international moratorium on whaling and stops those horrible dolphin slaughters in Taiji. The Dutch cabinet has said that this treaty provides a starting point for us to use it. In fact, the European Commission has already done so. Well, our group in Europe has asked questions about that. And what does it turn out to be? The European Commission has not raised it at all. Nothing is said at all about whaling and the dolphin slaughter in Taiji. How's that? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, there will be no such treaty. We see what the cabinet is committed to, on which the European Commission is committed, and this does not contribute to the objectives of this cabinet, including the Minister for Development Cooperation. I am thinking of the consequences of climate change for the poorest in the world, the consequences of ever greater free trade between rich nations, rich unions, such as the European Union and Japan. That doesn't help the world's poorest. We need to bet on a different diet, eat fewer animals, to make sure we can feed the whole world. At the same time, this cabinet finances an investigation that explores whether there might be opportunities for the Dutch animal agro-industry in Japan, where we will compete on price to lubricate the Japanese cheese and pork, while following a healthy vegetarian diet there. This is contrary to everything the cabinet claims to stand for. So, as far as we are concerned, there is no such agreement with Japan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u5	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Diks, who speaks on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Juncker recently announced in his State of the Union its intention to set up a permanent multilateral investment court for the EU and for the EU's trading partners. Why hasn't a form been chosen in which citizens are given as many rights as companies to sue governments? Does the government share the EU's desire to establish such a multilateral investment court and, if so, can the Minister explain again why this is necessary in her view? When it comes to sustainability, we see that the texts we have seen so far on JEFTA leave a lot to be desired in terms of sustainability. According to environmental organisations, the Convention will lead to increased CO emissions from increased bio-industries and increased international transport. Whale hunting is also not restricted. How does the Minister feel about that? Does she share the opinion of GroenLinks that the treaty should be much greener before it can count on support from the Netherlands? How will the Minister ensure that the sustainability chapters are legally defined and enforced in JEFTA? Then there is the transparency of the negotiations. In her letter, the Minister states that the Netherlands is working to make the negotiations process more transparent, stating that thanks to the commitment of the Netherlands, the negotiating mandate has become public and that the European Commission is now publishing reports on these rounds of negotiations. The Commission's reports, however, do not reflect very much on the progress of the negotiations on investment protection. At the end of last year, it was reported that a significant bridging of views had yet to be achieved, and then we read nothing about it in this spring's report. Does this mean that no progress has been made in this area and Japan is still heading for ISDS? Minister Kamp indicated on behalf of the cabinet in response to my oral questions that ISDS would be unacceptable for the Netherlands in the JEFTA Treaty. How does this relate to the few progress that seems to have been made now? Does this mean that the Netherlands is now also going to step on the brakes for JEFTA as a whole, now that the deadline is getting closer and there seems to be no progress at all? Can the Minister also comment on the adequacy decision to be taken between the European Commission and Japan on data protection? After all, this is a binding decision that the EU is taking for us. Can the Minister explain to us what the possible consequences of this decision will be for Dutch personal data? Are national parliaments still involved in any way in this decision? Finally, I have a few questions on the related subject, the CETA Convention, and others have already spoken about it. Yesterday, Follow the Money published an article that shows that the Netherlands has turned against a system of fines on environmental violations in the early stages of the CETA negotiations. I find it particularly disappointing that, with this minister, the Netherlands has apparently slowed down or relaxed sustainability. Is that right, and if so, why did that happen? Have we confessed to the importance of the environment again, but instead opposed it? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u7	Thank you. I would now give the floor to Mr Bruins, but I do not see him in the Chamber at the moment, so I will go on to Mrs Van Weerdenburg, who speaks on behalf of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another debate on a mega-trade treaty. Again with leaked pieces. Once again, this Chamber is behind the facts, because the main agreement between the EU and Japan has now been concluded. Again fuss about the dispute resolution mechanism. And later on, the Minister's big words about transparency and openness. The parts of the current EU-Japan treaty do not predict much good. There is talk of a panel, of arbitrators, of a case-by-case approach, etc. That sounds like ISDS, the old system the cabinet has ordered the Chamber to never agree to. As Mr Diks said just now, Minister Kamp said on 27 June last in Question Time on behalf of the cabinet: 'If there is no ICS, but an ISDS, an Investment-State Dispute Settlement, the treaty is not acceptable to us'. A clear answer. Has the cabinet also communicated this message so clearly to Mrs Malmström, the unelected Eurocrat in Brussels, who is also negotiating with Japan on behalf of the Netherlands, and if not, why not? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. My minister's party would also like to know whether it is satisfied with the current text of the JEFTA Convention, in particular with the provision on a dispute settlement mechanism. Does the Minister agree with me that the provision on dispute settlement between contracting parties resembles an old-fashioned ISDS provision? Does the Minister find such a SSDS clause acceptable? Is it not in line with the expectation that the resolution of disputes between investors and states will also take the same form? No doubt, in her reply, the Minister will once again stress to the Chamber that the commitment of this cabinet is directed towards an ICS system. She has repeated this many times. The European Commission also notes that it presented its revised proposal for an investment court system to Japan during the negotiations. The creation of such an investment court is being worked hard and, if there is, all existing ISDS provisions can be replaced by the fantastic ICS system. The Minister will tell us to do her utmost in Brussels. Beautiful, but what if Japan doesn't agree? What's that? Is the trade agreement going to go away? Can the Secretary of State promise the Chamber today? My party is not reassured and I don't think the average Dutch citizen either. Because we have been involved more often, with the European Constitution, which was supposedly no longer a constitution and with the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, which would be taken seriously. The conclusion is as simple as sad: we are ruled by Brussels. Minister Kamp admitted it himself. He said, I quote: 'We cannot impose our will on others, however. (...) These are 28 countries which all have their own views. The European Commission also has its own views. In this we try to achieve the maximum." I repeat: '... we are trying to achieve the maximum. The experience in Brussels is that, on average, the Netherlands succeeds very well." Mr. Chairman. If we were not chained to the EU, we could decide for ourselves who we are signing trade agreements with. This is why the PVV argues for a nexit, so that we can agree the best conditions for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u9	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Becker, who is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, ghost stories regularly gain from reality when it comes to trade agreements. We saw it at TTIP and CETA, and today we have the agreement with Japan. According to some previous speakers, that would actually be wrong. I can imagine people getting worried when they hear that or when they see threatening headlines on certain websites. For example: "Trade treaty with Japan threatens democracy and sustainable economy." It's a hell of a thing to say. Especially if you do that on the basis of parts of leaked negotiating documents, without telling the whole story. Fortunately, a large part of the JEFTA agreement in principle is now public and we can tell the realistic story today. That is that the trade agreement with Japan could generate 96 billion in additional trade and 440,000 additional jobs for the EU. The Netherlands, as a trading country, would be one of the most profitable countries, for example through increased export opportunities for cheese, meat, flowers and medical equipment. The realistic story is also that the European Commission is not negotiating in the wild, but with a mandate from the Member States. That mandate means that we will not accept an agreement that undermines our high standards or our policy freedom to take measures to protect humans, animals, plants and the environment. The JEFTA directives show a strong commitment to labour standards, to quotas for vulnerable sectors, to anti-dumping measures and to the right to continue to take public action at any time. For those who have not read it: in the fifteen-page document, "sustainable development" occurs no less than eleven times. Contrary to what the SP claims on its website, i.e. that ISDS has been back from being gone, the European Commission and this minister claim that they will no longer fall back on ISDS. So the ghost stories don't do justice to reality. This is detrimental to confidence in this agreement and to confidence in future trade agreements. At a time when protectionism is gaining ground, we cannot use that mistrust. As the Netherlands, we must stand for free trade, and modern trade agreements are part of this. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that prior transparency is very important in order to nip ghost stories in the bud, for example by making negotiating mandates public in good time? What about the forthcoming negotiations with Australia, New Zealand and several countries in South America? When can the Chamber look forward to the mandates for this purpose? When does the Minister expect to conclude these negotiations on JEFTA? Finally, can it give an insight into the state of play on data protection and investment protection issues? Mr President, I will conclude. In the previous debate we had on trade agreements, I tried to improve information for companies on the use of agreements. Thank you for the commitments made by the Minister on this point in the letter she sent to the Chamber yesterday. Because of the limited time available, I will not go into that further today. I would like to get back to that in the AO, but I would like to thank her for getting on with it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u11	Thank you. That raises a question for Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u12	I'm afraid there are more questions, but I'll only choose one. Mrs Becker says that we can now, fortunately, talk about this treaty openly and transparently, because we now have a mandate. It refers to the original mandate of the European Commission, the negotiating mandate. But we didn't get that until after the deal was closed. We did not get the documents we now have until after the agreement in principle was concluded. If we only get these pieces when the hands are shaken, how can we speak of open and transparent negotiations? Surely you cannot say that such a treaty is open and transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u13	As Mr Hijink of the SP knows, the VVD, together with the SP, said that we would prefer that negotiating mandate to be made public as early as possible. Eventually, it has become public. It is not the case that the agreement has already been concluded. It's an agreement of principle. I would like to point out that a very large part of that agreement in principle is now public and that it demonstrates that all the ghost stories published by the SP on its website on this trade agreement in recent months have wrongly scared people about what such a very important agreement would mean for Dutch jobs. And I'm very sorry about that. That's what I've been trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u14	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u15	Finishing already! Mrs Becker talks about ghost stories, but it's not that unrealistic. The Japanese farmers are massively opposed to this agreement because they fear that they will be completely wiped off the map by Dutch and European exports. I think that fear is justified. That is, of course, the whole problem with this debate: that Mrs Becker, the VVD, can only think in terms of financial gain. All the side effects in terms of environmental pollution, sustainability and employment, also on the other hand, i.e. the trading partner, seem to be of little interest to you. The European car industry is about to face competition from Japan where, as we know, much more hours are spent and the workload is much higher. This will, of course, put pressure on wages and working conditions in Europe. You can't close your eyes to that. Those are not ghost stories, that is simply a consequence of trade liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u16	Of course, there will always be parties looking critically at what a possible agreement means for their sector. Such an agreement may also contain mitigation measures. This has also happened in the case of CETA. However, I blame Mr Hijink for the fact that his ghost stories are published on his website that ISDS has been back and that labour law is being completely undermined, while it now appears that the parties simply commit themselves in the JEFTA agreement of principle to the ILO's core labour standards, to international environmental agreements and to the Paris climate agreement. Then I ask Mr Hijink to take responsibility together with the VVD and tell people in the country the realistic story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u17	The interruptions actually go in half, but you are being addressed, Mr Hijink. That is why I give you the opportunity to make a brief concluding remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It just doesn't add up to what is being said here. The agreement does not at all agree that the ILO conventions should be adhered to. That's just bullshit. In fact, the agreement states "we are going to commit ourselves and do our best to work in that direction." Japan does not abide by these conventions when it comes to discrimination in the labour market and forced labour. They don't stick to that and it doesn't agree that they should, so it just doesn't make sense what Mrs Becker says. The sustainability agreements are also butter soft. There's no enforcement. As strict as trade is regulated, so soft are the agreements on social rights and sustainability. Mrs. Becker knows that, too. So if you blame me for telling ghost stories, Mrs Becker, I would say: look in the mirror first, because what you are saying is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u19	I would say: let us ask the Minister in a moment. I have been very well informed about what is in the agreement. I also went to the reading room at the State Department, where I really went into the pieces. I also understand that a dispute resolution mechanism for sustainability is indeed included in the agreement in principle. Then you can say that's butter soft. I understand you're doing that from the angle you chose on this file...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u20	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u21	Mr President, I understand that Mr Hijink is doing that, but I hope I can convince him a little today that we will only regain confidence with each other if we also tell the real story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u22	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u23	Mr Becker says that it is very open and transparent, that it is quite clear what is in it and that it can be read for everyone. But why is she so concerned about Mr. Hijink's ghost stories?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u24	Because I find it regrettable that people in the country who are concerned about their sector, about standards or about animal welfare, on the Greenpeace website or the SP website read that an agreement that is ultimately extremely important for jobs and for a strong economy in the Netherlands, that is to say, for the people who are so worried, is being thrown in the eyes. I don't think we should do that as politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u25	In conclusion, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u26	After all, it is the same story of the VVD as always: people who disagree are the citizens who do not fully understand and are deceived by the ghost stories of the SP or Greenpeace. Does the VVD have any other argument than "the citizen doesn't get it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u27	That the citizen does not understand, let me give Mrs Van Weerdenburg a moment. I think the citizen understands it very well, but he also has the right to complete information. I have just given many other arguments why, at a time when protectionism is emerging in many countries, we as the Netherlands and as the EU should continue to stand for free trade and fair trade. This can be done through modern trade agreements. Let's share that story with each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u28	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Diks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u29	That was kind of the cue I was waiting for. Mrs Becker is very passionate about what I think is positive. The only sad thing is that she is passionate about organizing profits for companies. I fully agree with Mr Hijink that the trade provisions are legally anchored and therefore enforceable and that this simply does not apply to the sustainability chapters. There it is always mentioned that it is important that it is recognised and recognised, but in fact nothing is done with it legally. That is precisely why a number of parties here are so concerned about the treaty, because we want to promote the standards we have in the world instead of lowering our standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u30	It would be a misconception that I would only be driven by profit for companies, but I would like to say right away that profit for companies is not a dirty word. Profit for companies also means jobs in the Netherlands and a lot of extra work in the European Union. This is, in the end, extremely important to keep our economy running and to maintain our social services. You say that the sustainability agreements are not enforceable, but I have seen that there is a dispute settlement mechanism on the sustainability chapter in the agreement in principle. I would like to ask the Minister, together with Mrs Diks, whether she would like to reflect on whether it is true that this is indeed unenforceable and buttery. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u31	Finalizing, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u32	Totally. You just indicated that you stand for fair trade. I hope that we will talk about this very often in the coming years. I also hope that these kinds of treaties will contribute to this, but I have great concerns about this. I also have reason to believe that it may be less honest, or we have a different interpretation of "fair trade." Of course, that could happen. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this, but I am really concerned about the way in which Mrs Becker is positioning business. Just the 400 companies that want a sustainable government agreement indicate that they want sustainability measures that are legally enforceable, because that helps them to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u33	I don't think I've heard a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u34	Thank you. I call Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u35	Mr President, I repeat once again that the CDA is in favour of free trade. This offers the open Dutch economy growth opportunities and maintenance of employment, which is crucial for an exporting country like the Netherlands. The CDA has said it more often: where trade is conducted between countries, there is also a dialogue between countries. The CDA is clear when it comes to the consequences of free trade. People affected by globalisation must be protected. This can be achieved through clear agreements at European level, but where this is not sufficient, the Dutch government has a responsibility. Transparency of negotiations is important here. Since President Trump took office, we have seen a retreating US movement from the global trading scene. The termination of the TPP trade agreement is also worrying for Europe and the Netherlands. After all, it was an opportunity to apply Western standards to fast-growing Eastern markets. However, the US is turning into itself. We should not follow that example, as some in this Chamber do. We need to keep an open eye on the world. This is the only way to deal with abuses. To enter into trade agreements gives the opportunity to offer economic perspective to individuals. It provides the opportunity for cultural exchanges to take place, or think of drawing up sustainability clauses to meet global climate objectives. Therefore, the CDA acknowledges that the benefits of free trade agreements for the Dutch economy include the removal and or limitation of import charges for companies, creating clarity and less administrative burden, including customs handling. However, I would stress that our European and, in some cases, Dutch standards must always remain in place when we conclude trade agreements. The CDA supports the trade agreement with Japan. A few figures: Dutch imports from Japan amounted to 8 billion, even without a trade agreement. Dutch exports to Japan amounted to 3.3 billion. In the EU, 600,000 jobs are linked to trade with Japan. Economically important and therefore obvious. However, as with the other trade agreements, we need to focus on dispute resolution systems. My colleagues have already said something about this. The CDA is happy to receive an explanation from the Minister. Is the trade agreement with Japan organised via ISDS, ICS or another new variant? As with CETA, we believe that this belongs to the competence of the Member States and therefore requires the approval of the national parliaments. For the CDA, therefore, the question is whether and when Member States are given the opportunity to ratify the Convention. I would also like to receive a letter from the Government setting out a timetable for this Convention and to what extent the national competences apply. Finally, Mr President, I would like to stress that we must not forget that the Netherlands has been in trade relations with Japan for more than 400 years. In 1600 the Dutch galleon of Love arrived in Japan. That was the start of a special relationship between the two countries. For centuries, we've had access as the only country. Because of our trade mentality, we have managed to bring two worlds together. I review this treaty in this tradition of bringing different worlds together and want to continue this tradition in the trade treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u36	Thank you. That raises a question for Mrs Ouwehand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u37	Let me get this straight. The CDA is indeed in favour of more free trade. It's been for years. Nevertheless, the CDA says it is also the party for the farmers. Is the CDA prepared to admit that this focus on tapping as many markets across our borders as possible has led us to lose 85% of our farmers in 50 years' time and that the CDA is not really defending farm policy but the policy for the agro-industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u38	If we look at what I just mentioned, the exports to Japan, the 8 billion we import and the 3 billion we export, there is indeed a lot of food and food. So I think that we, as the Netherlands, can do very well and that there are opportunities for growth towards Japan. And that we are there for the farmers, as always and as the Party for Animals knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u39	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u40	But it's not like that. I've seen those numbers, too. Exports from the Netherlands to Japan of pigmeat and other meat products have increased by 360% since the negotiations with Japan in 2013. So that's true; we export more dead animals to Japan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u41	Meat. Meat. Meat. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u42	Mrs Ouwehand has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u43	But that doesn't mean you're helping the farmers. Because this commitment to global world trade, which the CDA is in favour of, also means that we have lost 85% of our farmers. And still at least five of them stop a week. Is the CDA prepared to admit that this is part of the commitment to send as many Dutch agricultural products everywhere as possible and that this is not in the interests of individual farmers, but in the interests of the agro-industry and that these are really two different things?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u44	In conclusion, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u45	We are concluding a European trade agreement with Japan. In Europe we are talking about 28 countries, probably 27 countries in a moment. We are talking about different sectors, including, of course, farmers, but also other industries. In such a total package, we weigh this down. Of course, there are always sectors that need to make a difference, but in this respect we see a positive commitment in the trade agreements to increase trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u46	A question from Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u47	If we can believe Mrs Becker, this type of trade agreement has nothing but advantages. But of course, part of the criticism is in dispute resolution. You were just talking about that. My question is as follows. If you look at the Dutch rule of law and the Japanese rule of law, don't you think they are adult countries with an adult rule of law? Why would you even need some kind of arbitration in those countries if you can just go to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u48	I don't think you should leave anything to chance. It is about investment and we also want to ensure that companies cannot attack countries. As Mrs Becker said, there is sometimes a wrong picture of such a trade agreement. There is already a lot of trade going on today. A trade agreement removes many of the barriers that are already there today. A wrong picture that is also outlined by you, Mr Hijink, is that at once the car industry will blow over Europe. There are so many Japanese car factories in Europe today, which are simply made here. So that image that there is a storm coming from Japan at once and that it will all have extra sustainability impact, I fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u49	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u50	That's not an answer to my question, is it? I am merely asking whether, if you conclude a treaty between two countries that both have a decent rule of law, it is necessary to add a separate layer, apart from both legal states, where specifically threatened multinationals can go for dispute resolution. So you pass the rule of law, the judges of the national parliaments of the Member States. That's my question. Why would you want to add an extra layer, a layer that as far as I'm concerned isn't necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u51	I think I'll fall into repetition. I don't think you should leave anything to chance. With CETA we have set a certain reference, by working with the ICS. I think that's an improvement on that other thing, the ISDS. So if we use that as a reference, you're going to ask the question again about Japan. We're about to get a trade agreement with Indonesia. Then I guess you're gonna ask the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u52	You were at the end of your speech. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bouali. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. You have the floor, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The EU and Japan have been negotiating a trade agreement for four years. This treaty now seems to be finally approaching the finish line. That's good news. I am pleased that Europe continues to look outwards and does not go along with some of the trends of protectionism. We can see that, for example, with President Trump in the United States. Mr President, D66 would also like to see trade agreements serving sustainable economic development. After all, who doesn't want that? That is why I am pleased that in the pieces of JEFTA, which we have now seen, we can read among other things: - that international agreements on the environment, nature and ILO standards are reconfirmed; - that trade and investment should not be encouraged by lowering environmental standards or relaxing labour law; - that the Convention is dedicated to Paris' climate objectives; - that this treaty will help Japan to make its energy supply more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u54	There is already a question from Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u55	I would like to challenge Mr Bouali to point out where that is. Where does the treaty say that ILO standards must be ratified, and that they will also be respected and enforced? Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u56	Actually, I would have liked to bring the lyrics. In that I had it neatly highlighted as well. But you can look it up yourself. It's just literally all there. I'd like to show you on the next occasion. We've all been doing a nice highlight this afternoon; it's really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u57	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u58	No, it's not there, and that's the problem. It says that these standards are very important. It also states that we must strive for this direction, namely ratification of ILO standards. However, it does not expressly state that respect for these standards is a prerequisite for trade. That's the problem that I've been trying to raise here all along. Do you know where I'm going with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u59	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u60	Well, Mr Bouali has something here that just doesn't add up. This also applies when he says that these standards on sustainability and social rights are enforceable. No, that's not exactly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u61	Well, it's pretty clear in the text. I just turned that in. There is also a very clear reference to, for example, Paris climate agreements. There are references to the ILO agreements. So you just have to read it again, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u62	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u63	I'm moving on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also ask, in the good tradition of my predecessors, whether the Minister can indicate what is going on with the Environmental Goods Agreement. I would very much appreciate it if we could perhaps get the answer in the form of a letter, because we have brought it up a few times before. At the same time, trade agreements are crucial for the Netherlands. They are for our economy, but also for our security and employment. 33% of our economy and 2.2 million jobs depend on trade. A trade agreement with Japan, the world's third economy, is therefore of great importance to the Netherlands. The trade agreement will enable the European economy to grow by 33 billion, and the Japanese economy to grow by 18 billion. That's not nothing. These are jobs for people who need it badly, and that is money to pay for important things, such as education, health care and social security in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Last July, a political agreement was reached to complete the treaty this year. I'd like to hear from the Minister whether that ambition still stands. I also have a number of specific questions on a number of specific issues. First of all: sustainable wood. How are we going to prevent timber from being placed on the market where it is unclear whether it meets the European sustainability criteria? Can the Minister agree with the criticism of Greenpeace, among other things, that what is in the leaked pieces on the monitoring of wood is not very firm? Which stick are we going to have to guarantee sharp control of imports? Secondly, can the Minister confirm that the new Investment Court System (ICS) will indeed be part of the Trade Agreement and not the old ISDS? Finally, I have a final question on transparency. I am pleased to see that Greenpeace also points out that the European Commission stresses the importance of transparency. Commissioner Malmström recently made JEFTA's mandate public. D66 is very happy about that. My question to the Minister is what this means for the transparency of future trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u64	Are you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u65	I'm gonna finish up. Trade agreements do not exclude internationally responsible companies at all. On the contrary, they can strengthen that. I am therefore looking positively at this agreement. I hope the Minister agrees with me. The only certainty we have is that protectionism does not achieve anything at all. Then you can neither take international steps in sustainable growth, nor fight climate change, nor protect labour rights. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u66	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Ouwehand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u67	What D66 always calls so derogatory "protectionism" could also be seen more positively as regionalisation of production and trade, so that at least you don't have the emissions of all those transport movements. But my question is about the following. I know D66 as a party very well aware of the seriousness of the climate problem and who really wants to address it. How obvious does the D66 group think it is to focus on increasing exports from the Netherlands all the way to Japan of meat and dairy, heavy environmental pollution products? Does D66 think that will help bring climate targets within reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u68	As I have just said, there are clear agreements in this trade agreement on the Paris climate agreements. We're committed to that, so we stick to that. We are pleased, together with you hopefully, that this is part of the JEFTA agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u69	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u70	I think that both society and farmers are entitled to a slightly more far-reaching view of D66. Because you can write that we have to respect that climate agreement, but if D66 is already ignoring all kinds of signals about what we have to do before, such as shrinking the Dutch livestock and eating more vegetable, and if D66 is going to be virtually unbiased in these free trade agreements, then I really wonder how D66 is going to achieve those climate targets. You can write the promise at the end: we respect Paris. How?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u71	In any case, I believe that the inclusion of the Paris objectives is already one very important step and that we are also making these international trade flows more sustainable. In the end, there is also a lot of profit to be gained. So we are also committed to sustainable international trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u72	I have also looked at it a little bit, and I can only conclude that the trade provisions can be enforced or enforced. You see a phrase as "strengthening cooperation on trade-related aspects of sustainable development, including climate change" apparently as a legally enforceable story. What's written here is butter soft, isn't it? You can always work together. I am really worried that you have so much faith in that, because I have a lot less of that than you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u73	As I said, this trade agreement gives us a balanced picture. On the one hand, we want to promote trade. It brings an enormous economic growth of 33 billion. On the other hand, we also want to see sustainable growth. We see enough elements in this preliminary, leaked piece that we think are good starting points. I've just listed them. I have just told the colleague of the Animal Party that the reference to the Paris agreements is already a very good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u74	Finalizing, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u75	Speaking of butter-smooth, that is exactly what you now agree. Just a reference to the Paris agreement will make you happy and happy. I really don't think that's enough. The other point is that increasing trade with Japan will, of course, lead to much more trade, but we will also increase the disadvantages of international trade, such as strengthening climate change and negative environmental impacts. Since we cannot do anything about it with this trade agreement, we are only strengthening the disadvantages rather than providing more benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u76	I had just responded to this. The Paris climate objectives are now clearly in place; we have committed ourselves to this. I believe that international trade can also contain sustainable elements. That's what we're committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u77	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. That also brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I propose that the sitting be suspended for five minutes. At 7.50 p.m. we will therefore give the Minister the opportunity to reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u78	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u79	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for all the questions. A number of questions do not concern the subject we are discussing tonight, namely the agreement in principle or the leaked documents of the EU-Japan trade agreement. I would therefore like to refer Members to the quarterly report that we are always sending. It states the state of play in relation to environmental goods. Every quarter we give you an update. A number of your Members have already said that we will be speaking next week, so a number of things can be discussed. I would like to answer one question now, because it is not obvious to do so next time. This concerns the question whether the Netherlands would have been in favour of a positive approach to CETA in 2011 if the provisions were not followed. I would like to say a few words about this. It's 2017. The cabinet has been ruling for a long time, but not since 2011. In recent years enormous steps have been taken, partly under the influence of the social debate and hence the debate in this Chamber. All I know is what I've been working for. The Members of your Chamber know that too, for example for transparency, but for the sake of transparency, too, I would like to make it equally neutrally worded to maximise sustainability provisions in those agreements. Then I come to today's topic. It was about leaked documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u80	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u81	I understand that you seem to be hearing this at least from a possible commitment in 2011 which would have been a little more reluctant. Does this also mean that you say: I do not recognise that we were reluctant at that time as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u82	At the moment, I do not know what information the conclusion in that article is based on. So I should see that in itself, to do justice to it as well. At the same time, you can hear me say that, since 2011, major steps have been taken to strengthen the importance of sustainability agreements in trade agreements. At least that keeps the pastor in the middle a little bit. No, not the priest. What are you keeping in the middle? The reverend? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u83	I suggest that Mrs Diks asks her final question and that we resolve this matter after the debate. Mrs. Diks, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u84	I'd like to talk to you about this. I hear you looking a little too. I asked what that was like. I don't doubt your commitment. That is why I was disappointed that I had to read that in the article. Would you like to return in writing to the interpretation of the article of Follow the Money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u85	I'll see if I'll say anything about it in the AO next week or we'll have to write a letter about it. I'll just see what's most convenient, if Mrs Diks can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u86	I see Mrs Diks nodding in agreement, so that seems to me to be a good commitment. Mr Bouali also has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u87	I just wanted to come back to the Environmental Goods Agreement. I know that this is not part of the current discussion. I would like to put it very briefly to the Minister, because I have already brought it up once before. The negotiations are over if it's stopped properly. Where are we? Can the Minister state this very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u88	We've been standing still since the end of 2015, when we were pretty close to an agreement. Let us say that there have been governments in a number of countries that may be slightly less committed to green goods than we are. Of course, that needs to be pulled out a little bit first. But it's not the Netherlands. Perhaps that will reassure Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u89	It seems to me that this is enough. Then the Minister continues her speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u90	EU-Japan. It was about leaked documents. The lead-time of 30-member debates is such that, fortunately, we can now deal with simply published completed chapters. At least those have been published and have been taken into account. The negotiating mandate has indeed been made public. I would just like to say that this treaty has been under discussion in this Chamber 55 times since the beginning of the negotiations. I assume that we will talk about it more often, because there is now an agreement in principle. What is an agreement of principle? This means that the Commission, which negotiates on behalf of Member States, and Japan, have agreed on a large number of issues. However, additional negotiations are still needed in a large number of areas. This means that negotiations will continue. Mr President, I would like to give two examples of what your Members explicitly asked for. One is investment protection. For the Netherlands, but also for the Commission and other Member States, there is no discussion about it... I am going to put it another way: we do not want an ISDS, point. Japan wants to, but we don't. We do not agree yet, so that means that this is one of the subjects that is discussed further. That does not mean that, if that were technically possible, we would conclude a compromise there. We don't want it. ISDS is dead and buried. You can already hear it from me: there is little room for agreement on this at the moment. The second topic still under discussion is data protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u91	Before you go any further, a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u92	First of all, it's leaving the church in the middle. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u94	I say that as non-Catholic and non-Protestant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u95	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u96	Where I wanted to go was about ISDS and ICS. You say: ISDS certainly is not; we want ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u98	But you're not saying it's just gonna be ICS. Is there also a third variant possible in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u99	Yeah, in theory, it's possible you don't include investment protection. I don't see another variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u100	Mr Amhaouch, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u101	Then you come near Mr Hijink, who says: why do we need it; we don't need it at all. Why would we shut it down at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u102	Look, I would like to explain that, but I would remind you that we have often had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter and that, thanks to the efforts of the Chamber, including Mr Hijink's party, we have come up with a modernised system which is now being developed in the form of a multilateral investment court. So I would like to explain again why we wanted to do this in this Chamber, but I think the Members of Parliament know it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u103	Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u104	My question is this. The negotiations are now under way. What if, in the short term, there is no agreement on investment protection? Of course it could be. Is it then conceivable, according to the Minister, that the treaty should be cut and that a distinction should be made between the trading part and the investment protection part? Could the European Commission decide to allow it to go through with ratification by the countries and suspend the others, or whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u105	Mr Hijink makes an extremely relevant point here, but I cannot say much about it. Following the Singapore Treaty, the European Court of Justice has ruled on what is now EU-only and what is mixed, and how this could be achieved in the future. The European Commission must make proposals on how we are going to work that out. This also has implications for a possible agreement with Japan. We will have an informal Foreign Affairs Council in two weeks' time, in which I would very much like to hear what the Commission thinks and what position other Member States take. There will be a formal Foreign Affairs Council in November. At all these times, of course, the Chamber is first consulted on the commitment of the Netherlands. So the question is relevant, but perhaps a little too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u106	Mr. Hijink, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u107	My brief experience here with the European legislative process is that you are either too early or too late. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether, if it came to this and the European Commission put forward a proposal to split the treaty, she would take the view that this is not the intention and that it will have to be ratified by the Chamber as a single package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u108	I do not want to take a position on proposals that I have not yet seen and which I have not yet been able to study all the ins and outs. In addition, I have never actually said it for the past six months, but I am going to say now that it seems that there is going to be a new cabinet. This will also take a new position with regard to the ISD in November. In fact, we are doing very well in terms of timing, because we first have this informal Council, where we can explore the whole field. Then a new cabinet, shrouded by parliament, can take up a position when it is ready. I do not want to pre-empt things too much, but that seems to me to be a sensible timing. A word on the question of cross-border data flows that Mrs Diks and others asked about. No agreement has yet been reached on this. The European Commission and Japan have decided to take another look at this in three years' time. Why three years and not one or two? My understanding of the considerations does not go that far. We will, of course, check that out. It does mean that one lay far apart and that one needs that time. That brings me to the question of whether this treaty, this agreement in principle, is now in line with the new commitment that I have presented myself and for which I have also received the support of the Chamber, for which I am grateful. That question too has actually been asked a little too early, because this is an agreement in principle. There's still negotiations going on. There are a number of points where agreement has not yet been reached. At the moment when we are really looking at a final treaty, I would of course also like to put the SER measuring bar through which we have been given under other trade agreements, but is also relevant here. Then, of course, we're really gonna do that test. Moreover, I do hear the concerns and questions that Members of Parliament already have about a number of parts of the agreement in principle. I'd like to say something about that. A number of members said: everything in the trading area is legally enforceable and everything about sustainability...................................................................................................................................................... I would remind the Chamber that this cabinet has had an investigation conducted to see if there can be a binding mechanism through which citizens and NGOs can relate to the sustainability agreements. Then they can indicate when something does not meet and that they want to talk about it. We've reported on that. So we've examined the entire field, and it's now up to the Chamber to study it. We are happy to hand it over to the new cabinet so that it can look at it. But I've made no secret that I'm in favour of it. I hope, then, that it will eventually come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u109	Let's just get back to the previous point. The Minister outlined that a reset had been launched because the cabinet and the European Commission said that existing free trade was not sustainable enough and did not take sufficient account of international justice. It's still going on. At the same time, the Minister says that this is an agreement in principle and that the negotiations are still ongoing. So the trajectory runs parallel. You can, because you can choose to, but of course it has risks. At some point this reset must be to the satisfaction of the cabinet. I'm just suggesting the sharpest scenario. Is there still enough room to call the whole thing off? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u110	Of course, that has everything to do with the conduct of the negotiations and the number of times at which this Chamber and the European Parliament can relate to them. It helps enormously that the content of the chapters is transparent. That's what we insisted on with each other. The Commission and a number of other Member States have embraced the reset in the spirit. But Mrs Ouwehand and I both regret that this does not mean that it is necessarily the guiding principle now. It will have to be closely monitored not only by the Chamber but also by the Cabinet. That will also be one of the contributions that the Netherlands will have in the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u111	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u112	This minister is a missionary, so my next question is difficult, but I still want to put it to him. Is the reset like the cabinet that has in mind a breaking point? Is the commitment of the cabinet that we need to have clear how we are going to comply with the Paris climate agreement that is really difficult, namely, before we commit ourselves to agreements that might make it more complicated to achieve our own goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u113	Thank you for understanding the Chamber. Let's take a look back at the negotiations with Japan, because that's the best way to put it. At first instance, Japan did not want any agreement on sustainability, whether it would be legally binding or just about intentions or whatever. It didn't matter what was in it. The Commission, of course also under pressure from the Member States, including the Netherlands, has negotiated hard to get what is in it now. We're about to discuss whether that's enough and what it looks like. If the European Commission were to fully embrace the reset, we would also have to deal with a negotiating partner who might have different views on it. In this sense, it is therefore very important that the Netherlands and our allies continue to insist on this in the European Council. We have already discussed the link with the climate objectives. Look, you could argue that it is important that the Netherlands should have that all in its own right first. We've already got a lot, but it might be a little tighter. At the same time, I would like to say that let us use the momentum that is present to achieve as much of our commitment as possible. So I'm hesitant. Otherwise, you're gonna wait for each other. Each Member State has its own pace. The question is whether this will lead to a satisfactory outcome. I think it is right to add this as a separate paragraph to the letters in the course of the negotiations on free trade agreements. That's how you put your finger on the spot every time you go through the process. So the place doesn't have to be very. I don't think it's my evening for proverbs. But this will enable you to see whether this is sufficiently integrated into the negotiations. I think this is the answer I can now give to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u114	Thank you, but this also raises a question from Mr Bouali. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u115	I would like to return to the binding mechanism which the Minister has just mentioned. For my colleague from the SP I had the piece removed from my room in which I made everything yellow related to standards, environment and ILO. The play even starts with it. That's why I'd like to ask the Minister for an appreciation. How does it see the balance in this trade agreement between hardcore trade and standards, environmental elements and ILO standards? I'd like to hear the Minister's appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u116	The technical answer is that of course different types of language are used within the sustainability chapter. I have here, for example, Article 3, paragraph 2. I am not going to read it, Mr President, but it says that the parties to the treaty confirm their obligations to the ILO membership. That's an obligation. So you're actually reconfirming what you agreed on earlier, but it's really good to do that. That part is, of course, enforceable within the context of these ILO memberships. A part of the sustainability agreements is structured consultation with NGOs and trade unions. We have dragged it away from the gates of Japanese hell, but it is not yet binding. It seems unlikely that Japan will ever come back to it, but I'd jog if I said it was committed and that you could make a binding agreement about it. That is precisely why the Netherlands has carried out this investigation into an additional binding mechanism. So we're on our way, but we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u117	In conclusion, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u118	I have a very brief question for the Minister. Does the Minister therefore share my view that we are actually pushing Japan in the direction of this kind of trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u119	That's for sure. The short answer is yes. I would also like to say something about how this agreement can have a function to stop the illegal whaling. We've talked about that before in this room. I think it's okay to name this specifically. By the way, I sent a letter on 10 April of this year, but it is good to remind you of this. The current texts contain agreements to promote sustainable fishing. They contain agreements to promote cooperation to combat child labour and climate policy. And here's the part that's unusual for Japan: there's a regular dialogue with stakeholders and NGOs to talk about the sustainability aspects of trade. It was also agreed that the EU and Japan should engage in dialogue on the implementation of multilateral environmental agreements. In this context, therefore, the violations of multilateral agreements such as those of the International Whaling Commission and the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling can also be addressed. So, under the agreement in principle, we have created a platform that allows us to appeal to Japan more, better, differently to that illegal whaling than before we had that agreement. That is exactly what the Netherlands will do. We have discussed this with the Chamber before. We will certainly make use of that. I come to a number of other aspects of the sustainability chapters. Will we have problems with animal welfare standards? We do not expect them, because Japan itself has high animal welfare standards. A paragraph has been included that encourages joint raising of standards. I come to the issue of CO emissions. Mrs Ouwehand and others spoke about this. I refer to the letter of 10 April, in which we set out a number of things. The agreement in principle states more than just that we will comply with the Paris climate agreements. I would remind you that the Kyoto Protocol comes from Kyoto in Japan. So Japan has a certain amount of credit to it. Quite detailed agreements have been made on how we can jointly achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. I also refer to my previous reply to Mrs Ouwehand on this. I am, Mr President, almost at the end of my questions. I'm just gonna check my note for a second. Yes, I have one comment on transparency. The Netherlands has made a great effort to maximise transparency as much as possible on the one hand and to consult much more at the start of the negotiations on the other. At least that was a wish of the previous Chamber. We founded the Breed Trade Council. I can remember a general discussion in which Mrs Van Weerdenburg once again objected, but it is the way to organise the consultations in such a way that both the House of Representatives are informed as much as parties as business, NGOs and trade unions can be heard. We have some experience with that now. I believe that all the participants are positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u120	That raises a question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u121	Not so much a question, but I was addressed. For the record, we are not so much opposed to Breed Handelsberaad, but my objection was more about the players who were in it. It was all very left-wing oriented. Even Milieudefensie had a big finger in his mouth that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u122	Crazy things are happening in the world, but I wouldn't call VNO-NCW left anyway. Unless they think otherwise. They'll have to make a phone call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u123	And with that, you were at the end of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u124	Yeah, that's what I was at the end of it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u125	I see that there are still a number of questions, first of all from Mr Bouali. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u126	I was afraid that the Minister would end it, because I still had a question to ask, in particular about wood and its sustainability. Greenpeace has rightly asked a number of questions about this. It still looks a little weak in the text that is now on the table. Does the Minister agree with me? And how can we do anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u127	Could I suggest to Mr Bouali that I come back to this in detail in general consultation next week? Then I can give it a slightly more precise answer than is possible in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u128	I see this isn't a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u129	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u130	Then we'll write it down for the general discussion. Mrs Ouwehand has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u131	I had asked about the investigation, partly initiated by the top sector of Agri and with a contribution from the government, that was done to see how we could make Japanese eat more Dutch pork and cheese. That's the bottom line. How does this commitment relate to this Minister's commitment in the field of development cooperation, namely that we should switch to a more plant-based diet in order to feed all the mouths of the world? I asked that question. The Minister mentioned animal welfare standards, but in the same report, which was carried out in part on behalf of the government, we read that Dutch exports of dairy to Japan mainly concern cheese and compete on price and that the Netherlands is doing well there because the price that the Netherlands has to offer there is low. Surely that means something for the possibility of raising animal welfare standards here? For example, there is the meadow that the Chamber likes to see results on. This may lead to a cost increase while this report states that cheese is doing well there because it is cheap. What about the animal welfare standards that we want to raise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u132	I do not know the details of that report, but I will generally try to answer the question, and if that is not enough, I suggest to Mrs Ouwehand that we discuss it again next week. But maybe I can satisfy her already. Again, I don't know the report, but I do know the quality of our cheese. I know that it is mainly about soft cheese that now has more market access. Of course, there is always a balance between quality and price. I can hardly imagine, but well, I have not read the report 'that it would only be about the price'. If that were the case, Mrs Ouwehand should be reassured, because it means that we can be more than competitive with our high animal welfare standards, even if it is based on price and not even quality. Anyway, this might be a little easy on me because I don't know the details of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u133	Mr President, I will ensure that the report reaches the Minister before we have that AO next week. I would like to tell her that the debate in the Chamber is that we want, for example, for Dutch dairy products that all Dutch cows can graze in pastures. Then the cabinet says that this cannot be done because it is at the expense of the earning model. In other words, that low price gets in the way. Then we cannot embrace the market in Japan as the walhalla, when we also see that the price is a decisive mechanism and we want to raise animal welfare standards here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u134	I'd like to get back to that. In general, I think it is a good thing to say that Mrs Ouwehand also confirms that it is not the case that we are now going to deal with Japan for the first time with this agreement in principle. All kinds of products are already dealt with. Prices are being set and certain markets are being opened. What a trade agreement does is try to facilitate that so that you can actually avoid transaction costs that are avoidable. It also looks at how to protect your own market in order not to be flooded with cheap products from a country that would not meet our standards. So this agreement of principle must also be seen in the context of the trade relations we have with Japan, in which we have both defensive and offensive interests; in general this is not the position of the Dutch Government, I think, moreover, that you do not have to eat meat every day. In the negotiations between Japan and the EU, Japan has undoubtedly put forward a number of offensive interests. It is not the case that Japan is now willingly surrendering to what we would like to export. There is no doubt that they also have products in the agricultural sector that they are going to sell to us. And that, of course, is what you negotiate in those agreements. How do you make sure there's a proper balance in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u135	Thank you. A question from Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u136	With regard to this sustainability issue, I would like to know the ultimate consequence of non-compliance. We have now had a lot of discussions on ILO standards and sustainability agreements. It just doesn't make it clear what exactly is written down. They also contradict each other when I read it correctly. In the end there will be a kind of committee that will then assess whether countries have complied with the agreements and at the end of the day there will be a kind of report. I think that is what happens in the worst case. Is that true or are there mechanisms that go one step further? Is this something the Minister says is a good way to keep the agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u137	I repeat that the cabinet has had an investigation into how we can make the agreements more binding and how we can put a more binding dispute resolution mechanism against them, because we do not have that now. That is the direction in which we want to move. Do the appointments that are in there now contradict each other? Not necessarily, because the ILO, I repeat, simply has obligations. If you reconfirm that you will abide by that, that part is mandatory according to the ILO standards; you will not be underneath it. The agreements made in the agreement and nowhere else to be found, let me put it simply, of course, are much more of the subject of the mechanism outlined by Mr Hijink. The Netherlands says: in the long term we really want to investigate that. No, I mean, we've looked into that, but it's up to another cabinet to see if we can make such a dispute resolution mechanism firmer, so firmer than binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u138	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u139	Shouldn't that also be an integral part of the negotiating mandate for future trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u140	How shall I put it, Mr Hijink? I am now maneuvering in a corner where there is a difficult situation. I am referring once again to the outgoing status of the cabinet. It is up to the next cabinet to appreciate the research we have done and, on that basis, to take the next steps. Imagine the next cabinet saying, "God, we'd want something like that." Then, of course, it is obvious that you will bring that into the negotiations at some point, because otherwise it will not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u141	The Japanese have allowed us to eat sushi, let us share them with our tasty cheeses, which we may also be proud of, because you almost forget this evening that we are talking about a trade agreement and not about a sustainability agreement. We have to take that seriously, but we are talking about a trade agreement. In the first instance, I had asked the Minister to give the Chamber a letter with the time span of this treaty. Let me get back to that. Can the Minister still make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u142	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that seems to me to be a good thing. As far as we can see, we can record that. I'd be happy to. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u143	I had a short question. In my speech, I had first asked about Juncker and his comment on the possible new multilateral court. There is now a great deal of commitment to companies that can fight their interests at such an arbitration court, but I think it is very important that there is much more democracy and transparency, including for citizens. Are you going to argue that such a court, or perhaps a variant thereof, should also be open to citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u144	Not only are we very much in favour of such a multilateral court, but we are also one of the countries that has started to do so, to put it at home. If I am keen on this research, this is also put forward as one of the alternatives, but I am referring again to my answer: it is up to a new cabinet to give an appreciation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u145	Thank you. The Minister was at the end of her reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u147	I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. I'll take a look at Mr. Hijink first. I see he needs a second term, so I'm happy to give him the floor. I note that speaking time is one minute. That includes reading possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u148	Well, then I'm afraid there's not a lot of time left. I'll start with the two motions I'd like to table. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the EU and Japan are mature legal states, which should be able to rely on each other if they conclude a far-reaching free trade agreement such as JEFTA;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree with JEFTA if it contains ISDS, nor to agree to the possible splitting of the Convention into a trading and investment part,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u149	Then there's the second motion. Oh, wait a minute. Now I'm going to read the same motion twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u150	Mr. Hijink is getting another motion. I think a new copy is about to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u151	I hope so, too. I hope you guys have good tape, too. Let's see. Yes, the motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the commitments on sustainability and social policy in the EU-Japan Free Trade Treaty JEFTA are not binding or enforceable;]] [[calls on the government to include binding and enforceable agreements on sustainability and social policy in the mandates of trade agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u152	This brings Mr Hijink to the end of his speech. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u153	Mr. Chairman. The government has been invented to serve the collective interest of the citizen. The greatest challenge we face is to ensure that the earth remains viable for today's generations, for the vulnerable in developing countries and for the generation of today, our children and grandchildren. It is not the greatest challenge to ensure that there is more free trade. We need to set the right priorities and make sure that we can actually tackle climate change effectively. As long as you don't, the Animal Party thinks that you shouldn't risk organizing even more free trade. After all, even more free trade makes it even more difficult to stop climate change. The Animal Party is therefore not reassured by these negotiations with Japan. It talks about respecting the Paris climate agreement as if it were an achievement. I think that is just the signature of Japan, just like the signature of the European Commission. So that's not an extra step. The question is, how are we going to do that? How should we see free trade within the objectives that we have set ourselves in order to achieve the climate objectives? Mr. Chairman. Japan must put an end to the whale hunt. It promised years ago. And as for the Party for Animals, there is an end to those horrible dolphin slaughters on Taiji.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u154	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I only have one long sentence. If the Minister is so committed to the greening of trade and fair trade, and if Japan is so opposed to the commitment to sustainability, it is, as the Minister himself pointed out, "to be dragged away from the Japanese hell doors," and if we see that world trade leads to more CO emissions and further expansion of the bio- and agro-industry, does the Minister ultimately have the impression that the benefits for trade outweigh the disadvantages of a much greater global environmental tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, I would like to make a few comments. I am pleased that the Minister has promised that the treaty will go off the table if Japan continues to hold on to ISDS. I hope that a possible next coalition will do the same. In this context, I find it somewhat disturbing that the Christian Union is missing, because of course it was always a strong opponent of ISDS. Anyway, we hope for the best. Just before the colleagues who said: well, we don't need such a dispute resolution mechanism at all, because the Netherlands and Japan have an excellent adult legal system. Yes, the Netherlands and Japan do. But "we" in the context of this treaty does not only concern the Netherlands. These are 28 Member States, of which not all countries have a legal system like the Netherlands. I refer, for example, to Bulgaria and Greece. As long as we are stuck with such weak brothers within the EU corset, we will continue to run into these kinds of things; hence a nextit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u158	Thank you. Mrs Becker, you have the floor for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to use my one minute to ask the Minister a little more about the bindingness of the sustainability agreements. When I read what the European Commission itself writes about this, the sustainability arrangements will indeed become enforcable through a dispute settlement mechanism, just to put it in English. That's how they put it on their own website. This is indeed done by an independent panel of experts, with a role of civil society and employers and employees. Then, of course, you can always discuss the degree of bindingness, but I would like to avoid that after this debate, the picture would be that this bindingness is not there at all, bearing in mind Mr Hijink's motion. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u160	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bouali waived their second term. Then we arrived at the end of the second term of office. I look in the direction of the Minister and see that she can respond. I'm asking her to go into the motions as well. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u161	Thank you. First, the questions and comments. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand once again that the Netherlands will use this treaty and its dialogue to oppose illegal whaling. I do not believe that we have any difference of opinion on this. Here's what I'm gonna say to Mrs. Diks. Are the benefits and the disadvantages outweighing each other? We will make the final judgment on this when there is a final agreement. This is an agreement in principle. I told you, there are a number of issues that are being negotiated. If there is a final agreement, we would like to place the SER measurement bar firmly on that. I do assume that the balance sheet will ultimately be positive, both for jobs in the Netherlands and for sustainability agreements; otherwise we would not be making so much effort. Why do I say that? Returning to what I said earlier, there is, of course, already trade between the EU and Japan, and that is what we are now entering into in a number of further agreements. Are these agreements binding or not binding? I say to Mrs Becker that the difference of opinion, if there were any, is about the extent to which they are. Again, that is because ILO conventions are again enforceable in a different way. I have to see what the right time is for it, but I can imagine that we will write a further explanatory letter on it in the light of the state of the agreement. I need to talk to you at what time that might be best. In view of the debate we have had and given the need to appreciate the possible new mechanisms of a new cabinet, I think it would be wise to do so. Then we can debate that. Then we can also clarify a number of points. What does it mean if Japan has signed a number of conventions and some have not? What are the possible implications of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u162	That will be noted as a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u163	Yes, thank you. For Mrs Van Weerdenburg, I would like to clarify this: there will be no treaty if there is ISDS in it. She turned it around for a second. We oppose ISDS. We want ICS. We assume that Japan will see the benefits of this at some point, as the Chamber sees it. That is what we are committed to, but at least there will be no agreement in which ISDS stands. This may be to reassure you, but also to confirm Mrs Van Weerdenburg's commitment and, by the way, everyone else in this Chamber. Then there's the motions. It would have been a nice thing for me if Mr Hijink had tabled three motions instead of two motions, but I am not in charge. It would have been so nice if he had cut the first motion in half. In it he says:... not to agree with JEFTA if it contains ISDS. Of course, I fully endorse that. He then says, in one sentence:... and at the same time does not agree to the possibility of splitting the treaty into a trading part and an investment part. I've already reflected on that. Well, that's a little ahead of schedule, isn't it? So I want to keep that part. I do not know whether Mr Hijink would be prepared to do so, but then we will have a clearer opinion from my side. Maybe he'd like to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u164	May I summarize the Minister in such a way that the motion, as it now stands, is given voting advice...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u165	Then I'll have to dissuade the motion, but I hate that, because we fought very hard to get that ISDS out of each other. Then it would seem as if I would advise against that, but I cannot agree with Mr Hijink anymore when it comes to his first sentence in the motion. So I think Mr Hijink is giving himself some thought. I shall now come to Mr Hijink's second motion, No. 53. I have a lot of notes on my vocals today. I would ask Mr Hijink to keep it. The key words in it are quite clear to me that he is doing so: we have enforceable agreements on sustainability and social policy included in the mandates. I have already indicated the position of the cabinet in this. I would very much anticipate matters if I did not ask Mr Hijink to hold this motion. That seems to me to be the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u166	I see that Mr Hijink wishes to respond. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u167	It's a request to the government. It doesn't specifically say which government. I can also imagine the Minister saying: in principle I can support it, the direction is good. Then that could also be a nice message for the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u168	I can't look into the head of that next cabinet there too, it's very crowded, I think, but I don't want to do that. Mr Hijink says two things in the motion. The first is that if we have taken the decision that the agreements should be enforceable with such a mechanism, but we are not there yet, then that should be included in the mandate. I've said that if you want something, you'll have to bring it into the negotiations at some point, but how and when, to put it right here with a big swipe? I think it's more successful to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u169	But now that the motion has been tabled, I would ask the Minister to give it an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u170	Then I'll have to dissuade the motion, but I'm really sorry about that. Perhaps Mr. Hijink would like...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u171	Thank you. Your plea towards Mr Hijink is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u172	Yeah? Fine. That's a start, if we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-38.u173	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Minister. The two motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I should like to thank the Minister for her presence and her contribution to this debate. The same applies to the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate here, or in another way. Thank you very much for your interest.
