ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u1	Mr President, thank you and the Chamber for the occasion of this reopening. We have asked them to be able to discuss a new one with this Chamber and the Secretary of State. Last weekend, an unknown person placed an appeal to a limited group of Dutch people abroad asking the First Chamber Group of 50PLUS to convince 50PLUS that 50PLUS should vote against the bill in question 33853. The central theme is the change that the Dutch who are married or registered with a partner cannot allow the naturalisation process to proceed from abroad, but that the foreign partner must first live in the Netherlands for three years. On this call we received no less than 800 to 900 self-employed letters, in extremely reasonable terms, with often a good basis for our own situation. Both this overwhelming number, in a very short period of time, and the painting of the significance of the change of law for those involved, has been a reason for us to ask the Chamber to present this current event to the Secretary of State. We sent a couple of letters. It is true that also legislation that already applies hurts the letter writers. But that is all the more reason to ensure that this feeling is further increased by new changes. At first, politics thought this touches a very limited group, although it is also important, it must be a revelation for everyone that the dissatisfaction and fear for the future live so massively among almost 1 million Dutch people abroad. We believe that The Hague has greatly underestimated these signals, perhaps due to ignorance, and cannot simply ignore them. The many well-founded letters show a multifaceted problem. Let me give you four examples. Mr.Jan Hendriks, a Dutchman who lives and works in Peru, wants to spend his old age in the Netherlands with his Peruvian companion, but this law makes that virtually impossible. Mr Jan Pieter Tromp, working in Oman and married to a Brazilian, is very concerned about the large number of Dutch people in his immediate vicinity. Mr Nieuwenhuis from Canada has children and grandchildren who live in the Netherlands. In his old age he wants to return to his family in the Netherlands with his partner, but believes that this will no longer be possible in the new legislation. Finally, a Dutch woman in the United States who is a cancer patient. Because of her euthanasia, she wants to be able to return to the Netherlands with her partner at some point, but she fears that this will become impossible because of the requirements for a residence permit and income requirements. It suffers in two respects. Many families, according to the letters, whose partner is independent abroad, will be driven apart by income and residence requirements. There are requirements that are very often not feasible in this flex age. In the future situation, the partner must wait three years longer. We are affected by the extent and seriousness of the problems that Dutch people are going to encounter abroad if this law goes through. They are reactions from the practice and not from behind the Hague office. We ask the Secretary of State to give his views on these massive reactions and their content. We ask him if he is prepared to take this bill back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Nagel. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? Yes, Mr Van Hattem. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Isn't it reasonable that anyone who wants to become Dutch, who wants to acquire Dutch nationality, should simply live in the country where he wants to obtain nationality? This also applies to people who wish to obtain it through marriage or partnership. This is also in line with the period of cohabitation. Mr Nagel could have already found this in the explanatory statement. The same three-year period has been set for this purpose. Nevertheless, there is some surprise to us about the fact that 50PLUS is making a big point of this at the moment, because we have not heard 50PLUS on this subject either in the Lower House or in the preparation in the Upper Chamber. Now there is a pre-chewed draft letter coming in. We see very often the same rules come back in all letters, and Mr Nagel and 50PLUS seem to think it is necessary to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u4	A correction to what the PVV colleague says. He is seriously failing Mr Nagel. Last week during an interruption I asked Mr Nagel how he looked at the issue of Dutch people with non-Dutch partners abroad. I was surprised that he did not mention the issue, but then he said: I fully endorse what your group said about it. That also had to do with speaking time. So we heard Mr Nagel very well on this subject last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u5	Indeed, that was only last week, but as I said, neither in the Lower House nor in the written preparation 50PLUS has made any mention of this. What they are doing now is trying to block a bill that still has to create some sort of dam against mass immigration. This mass immigration is just bad for our Dutch elderly. 50PLUS does not serve our Dutch elderly. We've got the.............................................................................................................. Those are not the groups that contribute most to our welfare state. On the contrary, the price that has to be paid for this is high and that is at the expense of our Dutch elderly. The fact that parties such as D66 have a cosmopolitan concept of nationality by Mrs Stienen does not mean that Dutch citizenship as an important value, in which this law imposes requirements to comply with that Dutch citizenship, can be dismissed. My appeal to Mr Nagel is to support this bill in particular and to stand up for our Dutch elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. Do others wish to speak? Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to note that more parties have come to the progressive understanding that the bill does not contribute to those involved, either for the other Dutch people or for Dutch society as a whole. The scientific research mentioned above shows that the extension will not work. In the interests of integration, it is right that those involved should be naturalised as soon as possible. In the opinion of the SP, this is a decline, whereas we should like to move forward in this increasingly globalising world. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore: what is the added value of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I will look around again to see if there are any other speakers. That is not the case. Will the Secretary of State be able to answer directly? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Members of your Chamber for asking the questions, because I am pleased to have the opportunity to respond to the events and the messages that have been received. Mr Nagel asks whether the signals have been underestimated. I don't think so. In my opinion, they have been discussed extensively, even on request and after questions from his colleague in the Lower House when dealing with this law. You can see in the e-mails a wide range of questions, concerns and complaints, often from people living abroad who are either afraid of losing their Dutch identity or who had already lost it because they hadn't exactly studied the rules. This was also the focus of the House of Representatives. Some of the questions are about Dutch people with a partner abroad. For this category, this bill provides a tightening-up for two reasons. The first reason is that we are now making a difference in treatment. Easy to say: there are two Dutch people living in America. They both found a partner there, one an American woman and the other a Brazilian. Now we treat them differently. For the man with the Brazilian woman in America, it's easier than for the man with the American woman in America. With this bill, we're going to treat them equally. Admittedly, this follows the request that the family may be in the Netherlands, but that one stays here for three years before the partner can become Dutch. That goes for both of us with this bill. I think that this has struck a real balance, but there is a potential disadvantage. Last week, Mrs Oomen put a lot of emphasis on the expats and the income requirement. I have promised that the IND will look at their position and be able to do customization. If one has the idea that they can simply provide for the livelihood in a way other than the income requirement technically required, one can deal with it generously. I shall then follow that customization and inform the Chamber accordingly. If necessary, this could lead to changed policies. People who have expressed their displeasure by e-mail also asked whether I can make a distinction between the Dutch expat who has a partner abroad and the new Dutchman, in order to put it so politically correct, who may go to a third country, I call Tunisia "to bring a Moroccan partner back to the Netherlands after a while who in no way knows the Dutch values, who do not need to be citizens, to whom those requirements do not apply and who nevertheless becomes Dutch without having a connection with our country and our values. The changes to this law that will maintain insurance for our society against the latter, I cannot maintain it without applying it to other Dutch people. A Dutchman is a Dutchman. I can't make a legal difference between someone who has been Dutch for x generations and someone who is less long. I therefore believe that the disadvantage for a small group, which I limited last week in commitments towards Mrs Oomen and also towards Mr Nagel on the fee, should not lead to the rejection of this law. There's something even stronger. Most people who have signaled are better off with this law. Most people complain that they lost their Dutchmanship or are afraid of losing it. This law extends the period of loss from 10 years to 15 years. It is also very important that, as a result of a discussion on this particular group, which was also held in the House of Representatives, a regulation of regrets has been incorporated into the law per amendment. Every Dutchman who lost his Dutch identity in recent years but once was a Dutchman, can now only regain his Dutch identity in a very difficult way. If this law is adopted, they will be able to recover their Dutch identity in a very simple way. In doing so, we respond to a great many concerns of Dutch people abroad who have also come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u10	I hear the Secretary of State admit that in a number of cases there are disadvantages in adopting this law, in our view poignant cases of expulsion between family members. He pointed out that, on the other hand, there were advantages: the regret scheme that allowed people to regain Dutch citizenship and the extension of ten to fifteen years living abroad. But these last two factors, the regret mechanism and the extension of ten to fifteen years, can be dealt with by an additional law, can we not? I can imagine that my group in the House of Representatives, together with a number of other groups, will submit an initiative legislative proposal for this. Then it'll be settled within a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u11	The creativity of the democratic process has few limits, so anything can be done. I would just like to point out that the disadvantages for certain groups in the law are highly justifiable, if you look at the reason why that has been done. That's not bullying. There's a very legitimate reason. You make demands on people to become Dutch. This debate in this Chamber has focused on a numerical minority, the expats abroad with a foreign partner. You can choose, but there is a larger group of people in which relationship settlement, to use the modern word instead of marriage migration, takes place. Those are the people who, as is the experience, through constructions such as the Belgian route to our society, naturalize and are not awarded the achievements and freedoms of Dutch society by their partner. As a society, we do not have a mechanism to involve them, to promote their integration. For that much larger group, I think this is a good measure. I indicated last week that for the group on which this bill is not aimed, but which feels it has an effect, the expats, we provide tailor-made solutions which will allow us to reduce the disadvantages for them. Another poignant example mentioned by Mr Nagel was the one that chose to return to the Netherlands in the final phase of her life. She can come to the Netherlands visa-free anyway with her Canadian partner. If that lasts longer than three months, we have the opportunity not to make some of the demands you make for longer stays such as an income requirement for humanitarian reasons. In practice, we do that more often. I look at the law and at the way we implement it in practice, and I think that it is in balance and that, in the end, the expats who express so much concern with this law are better off than without it, especially because of the regret mechanism, the delay and the tailor-made work that we can offer to certain people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u12	I hear the Secretary of State say on the one hand that we should treat people equally. On the other hand, I hear the Secretary of State making a distinction between people who would abuse rules and those who want to exercise their rights with genuine intent. That sounds a little weird to me. I have not read this kind of argument in the explanatory statement before. This imagery, which in my opinion is unsubstantiated, is now a bit raw on my roof. I have heard the Secretary of State say earlier that those who live together and those who are married should be treated equally. The question remains as to why those who are married are treated worse than those who live together. You could also say: we treat them equally and make it possible for both groups to naturalize abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mrs Strik begins her question by saying that I would like to distinguish between those who genuinely want to make use of an arrangement and those who want to abuse it. On the contrary, in our rule of law, there seems to me to be nothing wrong with distinguishing between those who want to make use of it and those who want to abuse it. I have also said that I do not want to be able to make a legal distinction. Fortunately, that should not happen in a rule of law between what we are going to call expats, say twentieth generation Dutch, and third, second or first generation Dutch. That's why I don't see anything in taking back the bill. I can't take it back and then submit to you a law that states: if you're a twentieth-generation Dutchman, we'll treat you and your partner differently than when you're a third-generation Dutchman. I do not want to make that legal distinction. In addition, I have said that the IND is not a technocratic, blind organisation and will be able to do customization at the moment when someone physically meets the demand for resources, which we put for reasons, but you might also be able to reject it in a technical detail. We do that all the time. We also do this in other areas. I call the whole phenomenon discretionary jurisdiction. By definition, people did not comply with the rules, but we made an exception for distressing reasons. I do not think I am trying to create a distinction that could not be morally or legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u14	Well, I'm happy about that. Of course, abuse must always be stopped. But I got the impression that the Secretary of State tried to make a difference between naturalized Dutchmen and other Dutchmen, thereby creating an image that we want to make the rules more stringent for that group, for the naturalized Dutch, and that the Dutch who have always been Dutch might suffer, but that there are exceptions for that. I am very happy when the Secretary of State states that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr Ten Hoeve, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u16	I'm having a little trouble with the idea of taking advantage of our naturalization laws. If a Dutchman goes to Canada and gets naturalized there, but nevertheless in the Netherlands she is looking for a woman, is that abuse of legislation there? If I transfer that to the Dutch situation: a Moroccan who is naturalized here and nevertheless seeks a woman from his own country, is that abuse of our legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u17	No. That is why the legislation makes this possible. But we do want to create opportunities in there to make sure that someone settles in and we also want to impose integration requirements on someone who comes to the Netherlands out of love. I have only used the word 'abuse' in the repetition of a question in which the word 'abuse' was decided, so I find it complicated to get it rubbed on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u19	Excellent. But in all cases, isn't it true for Dutch people as well as for those Moroccans who are three years old who already say that you should be married?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u20	Both categories are treated equally and the same requirements apply. Mr President, I look forward to the vote with even more interest than ever before. I hope that we can do justice to the concerns in our society. This applies both to the Dutch who are concerned about the conditions under which you can become a Dutchman.The people want to become the Dutchman, should be able to do so in a good way, but we do want to offer a number of guarantees for integration as well as for the many expats, who have mainly been concerned about the loss of Dutch citizenship or the already lost Dutchmanship and who could recover that if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-7.u22	We have been asked to vote first on the motion and then on the bill.
