ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the VAO RBZ/Trade. I welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had an AO of foreign trade last night in preparation for the Foreign Affairs/Trade Council next Friday. We have talked very extensively about everything that was on the agenda. As far as I am concerned, one thing remains, if I may put it that way. In the negotiations between the EU and Mercosur countries, i.e. the Latin American countries, there was talk of an EU offer to allow 70,000 tonnes of beef. Mercosur countries would like to talk about the possibility of increasing that offer. This beef is, of course, produced in circumstances which are obviously less good than in the Netherlands or in Europe. There are lower standards for sustainability and animal welfare. That is why I would like to put the request to the House by way of a motion for a resolution or to make an effort by the Minister to reduce the tonnage. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new trade agreement is being negotiated between the EU and Mercosur countries and that, in this context, a reduction in import tariffs for Mercosur countries in the introduction of a quota of cheap beef on the European market is being discussed;]] [[noting that Mercosur countries did not find sufficient evidence of the European Commission's offer of 70,000 tonnes of beef in October;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for Dutch farmers to compete with cheap beef from Mercosur countries, where standards for sustainability and animal welfare in production are lower;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a higher quota of beef from Mercosur countries and to make an effort to substantially reduce the Commission's offer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1785]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we also discussed the binding agreement in the framework of business and human rights currently being negotiated at the United Nations. There would be a postponement or even a postponement of a new round of negotiations on this treaty within the European Union. The SP doesn't think that's a good idea. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a new round of negotiations on a binding UN Convention on Business and Human Rights was scheduled for next year;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote the entry of this Convention, including at EU level, during and prior to the next round of negotiations and to keep the Chamber informed of these efforts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1786]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u4	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u5	Madam President, thank you very much. Many thanks also for your words of welcome. I would like to begin by thanking the members of the House of Representatives with whom I was able to enjoy yesterday the start of a long series of discussions, dialogue and policy exchange. I hope, of course, for a continuous, good and very constructive open cooperation. With regard to the motion by Mr Diks and Mr Ouwehand, I would like to make the following point. The cabinet is in favour of an ambitious and balanced agreement with Mercosur. An agreement between the EU, including the Netherlands, and Mercosur in the short term also offers great opportunities and opportunities for European companies in this market. The negotiations are in the final stage. Beef is indeed one of the last issues to be discussed. Now, in this final phase of a complex negotiation process to request a lower quota, we also risk that the negotiations may fail. This would be very bad for trade, including Dutch interest, but also bad for options to improve sustainability and climate through our negotiating position. After all, the Treaty also provides for an ambitious sustainability agreement. The question of standards has, of course, also been taken into account in the negotiations. That's why I advise against this motion. As far as the motion by Mr Hijink is concerned, I should like to say that the discussions should only begin on the content and the contours. It's really very, very early in the process. The issue of human rights, also in a context of business and economic activity, is very important. It is also explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement. At the same time, it is also a moment in which I am grateful that this point has been raised at the beginning of the negotiations and the discussion among the Member States in order to give constructive thought and shape to our thoughts in the negotiation process. The Netherlands itself has the covenants, which will be evaluated in 2019. This is also a time to see how the Netherlands can further develop its own commitment to the covenants and the theme of human rights and see what resources should be attached to them, including the option of greater compliance and legal compliance. As regards the motion and the question that has been raised in it, it is quite clear that the entire Council of Ministers is committed to the central issues of human rights. As far as this process is concerned, I intend to inform the Chamber frequently along the usual channels of the Convention on Business and Human Rights in the UN framework. But it's too early for me to support this motion. My request is to hold the motion. I also wanted to take a moment back on a similar motion on Mercosur tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP last week in the VSO Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I would also advise against this motion on the same grounds that I have just explained in relation to the beef quota for Mercosur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you. Mr Hijink's motion was particularly concerned with the request for detention. You don't have to decide now, Mr. Hijink. But if you know, you can tell me what you're doing with the motion. You have until tomorrow, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u7	It depends a little on what the Minister will say in her response. The reason for tabling this motion now is that pressure has been exerted from the European Union to put a stop to the negotiations and not to start a fourth round of negotiations. Maybe this minister sees it differently, but I'd like to hear that. If it is the Minister's commitment that these negotiations should take place, I would be glad to hear it. I think it would be very good and important for her to spread that message in Brussels. So it seems to me that this motion will be right on time and if I arrest her, we'll be late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. That is a very relevant point. I'm still keeping up with this phase. I'm going to Brussels tomorrow. I am going to discuss this in detail, and I think that I will have a much better understanding afterwards, both in the matter and in the Commission's attitude and in what the opportunities and opportunities are. The theme is very central and very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u9	But if Mr Hijink does not hold the motion, what is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u10	Then I would advise against the motion on the grounds that there is now insufficient information for me to make a ruling, a commitment, in order to reach a binding treaty of which I do not know the contours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u11	Last point, Mr Hijink. No discussion, really just about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yeah, but that's about the motion. It is, of course, important what message the Minister sends to Brussels. Is she just going to see how things lie down or does she have a particular picture of where it should go? The motion calls for these negotiations not to be stopped already, as some EU countries seem to want to. As far as I am concerned, that is the commitment she should have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u13	Of course, I am not going to Brussels to take a look at things. I am very familiar with the city of Brussels and with the EU. I am going to look at the substance of the situation and also our position on the relevance and central importance of human rights and the link to business, also building on the covenants that have already been proposed in the Netherlands. Then I'll come back. I would be happy to report to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hold on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u15	But what's the position? Can't I ask what the government's position is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u16	No, no. Sorry, it's gonna be a repeat. I'm sorry. That has already been discussed. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. I shall return to the motion I tabled together with Mrs Ouwehand. We have indeed asked the government not to agree to a higher quota and to make an effort to substantially reduce the Commission's offer. You stated in your reply that there is no need to reduce significantly as far as you are concerned at this stage of the negotiations, but could you at least agree that you do not agree to a higher quota?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u18	As MP Diks knows, that was also discussed yesterday, we officially do not confirm the amount of the quota or make any commitments about it. Right now, we're not betting on a lower quota. Lower by deduction will, I hope indeed, not mean higher. There are some that are currently in the negotiating round. I can't confirm the absolute number for reasons of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-10.u20	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
