ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 31461, the proposal for a law of Members Jasper van Dijk and Van Toorenburg amending Book 7 of the Civil Code with regard to the introduction of rules on the resale of tickets for a public event in the field of sport or culture, i.e. the resale of tickets. I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Van Toorenburg, and the Minister for Security and Justice to the Upper House. I see that the MPs themselves are busy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u3	Madam President. I am speaking on behalf of the CDA Group and the OSF Group. It is not often that it takes nine and a half years for a bill to be dealt with in this House. However, that is the case with this draft initiative law. I believe that the initiators obtained this bill from "the legacy." It is, I think, a second or perhaps even third generation initiators. Of course we appreciate the persistence of the SP and the CDA in the Lower House. I'd better drop the door in the house right away. The intention behind this draft law is commendable, but the big question is whether the instrument in question has the desired effect in practice. The CDA Group also sees that consumers can often only get tickets to popular sports and cultural events in the Netherlands via the low transparency second-hand market. Many traders make big money from this, often through international trade, using the Internet. The question is, however, whether an amendment to the Civil Code would allow a consumer to go to civil courts when the price is "obviously unreasonable" to provide a solution to this problem. According to Article I, which seeks to amend Article 4, Book 7, BW, there is a "unreasonable" price increase where the price increase exceeds 20%. This house is supposed to test draft laws in second reading for utility, necessity, legality, feasibility and enforcement. The first question that arises here is: what problem is addressed here and how big is the problem? The Council of State and Professor Van Boom, at the expert meeting, also pointed out this. The problem could be described as follows: it is socially undesirable that intermediaries or vendors make a lot of money selling tickets for sporting and cultural events in the Netherlands. That's not good for consumers. There are many examples of this, as the initiators have done. However, the scale of the problem has not been demonstrated by the initiators. The latest investigations date back to 2009. The CDA Group has repeatedly called for a good, thorough investigation into the size and composition of the market in the Netherlands, insight into the price formation on the first and second-hand market and insight into which key players play a role in secondary trade and, above all, how.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u4	I wonder why Mr Van Rij would think, because apparently he is not sure that in the Netherlands the market is different from elsewhere. We do have global numbers. According to Live Nation, for example, artists miss $8 billion a year because they don't get money from the margins of the prices of re-sold tickets. The profit for Live Nation was 1.2 billion in 2015. This was a 34% growth compared to 2014. Since then, it's only been increasing. I am therefore curious to know what information Mr van Rij thinks is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you for this question. In fact, as far as we are concerned, exactly the same should happen as in the United Kingdom. That market is slightly larger than the Dutch market and there the House of Commons has set up an independent scientist to portray the market in their own country. This concerns all events: cultural events and sporting events. Who are the organizers? How does the sale of tickets take place from the first hand? One example: are there not tickets already reserved for sponsors or other beneficiaries, for example, and how many are there for consumers? In short: a much better understanding of how the first and second-hand market works. Who are the players? What is legal and what is illegal? We don't have any of that data. How does this pricing take place? A serious investigation, in the Netherlands alone. And with respect, Madam President, Mrs Prast's research does not give that information to the Netherlands either. The CDA Group therefore notes that these data are not available and that the extent of the problem in the Netherlands is therefore not clear. Do the initiators and the government share this conclusion? During the parliamentary debate in the Lower House, it was not possible to give the Authority Consumer & Markt a role in the enforcement after the resale of an access card at a "obviously unreasonable price." The CDA Group here in the Upper Chamber regrets that. Moreover, in the past, the ACM has imposed fines in the event of unfair commercial practices. In the opinion of the CDA Group, strengthening the administrative capacity may be much more effective in countering unwanted practices of resale. The ACM is better able to maintain than a consumer who has to fight against a large party, and who then has to be equal in civil courts. The groups of CDA and OSF like to hear from the initiators and the government whether they are still willing to beg for a role in the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u6	I have a question for Mr Van Rij. He knows the pieces from this debate, the thick file. The ACM has been discussed on several occasions. Minister Kamp promised, I believe, two years ago, that the ACM would be called in to investigate the matter. The ACM has done so and has decided not to do anything. Then why would the ACM be switched on again? To do the same thing again, déjà vu, déjà vu, déjà vu? Or is it just to buy a little time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u7	I would also like to thank you for this question. The point you are making here is justified. The ACM did indeed investigate, recently, earlier this year, and it considered that it should not intervene at that time. The point that we want to put down in the form of a question is whether you should not extend the administrative possibilities that the ACM now has, so whether you should extend the law, so that the ACM can actually take action in any situations that give rise to undesirable pricing. This is a different legal instrument from that proposed in this legislative proposal. Another question that arises is whether there may also be criminal law opportunities to combat unwanted practices via the Internet. Can the initiators also reflect on this? Madam President. The CDA Group wonders whether organizers of events generally do not include in their general terms and conditions a provision that loses its validity when a ticket is resold. If the retailer has not informed the buyer of that risk, the buyer may recover the amount paid. After all, the seller has a notification in accordance with the Civil Code. Can the initiators deal with this? In addition, the Civil Code has the possibility that the court may destroy a contract of sale and sale under circumstances (abuse of circumstances, error, deception and, by the way, threat). The question now is what the new article 4a Book 7 BW will add. We understand from the answers to the various questions that the initiators consider that the possibility of dealing with the retailer in civil law could be a deterrent effect. However, the question that arises is which citizen is actually going to start a civil procedure if, for example, he pays €50 for a football ticket in the second hand trade, while the original price was €25. A number of questions arise here. What is the right price between parties who enter into a contract of sale and purchase in society? How exactly do you show that the price is "obviously unreasonable"? To what extent is this criterion, and to what extent is the 20% criterion contrary to the general principle of a fair and equitable price? The ACM referred earlier to the phenomenon of "selling on offer." Can the initiators indicate whether they would also like to apply the 20% unreasonableness test? Moreover, how do you prove the direct costs of administration and shipping? In short, how exactly do you determine the amount of the undue payment? Research shows that fewer and fewer citizens are seeking their way to civil justice. Is that familiar with the initiators? The Court of Justice expected a minimum number of cases. Can the initiators respond to this? Or is it the intention of this law that collective processes should be conducted? We also wonder whether the proposed legal provision could not be contrary to European law and, in particular, to the freedom to provide services, particularly if the proportionality criterion is to be assessed. After all, they are traders who have turned it into a profession and a business. The initiators themselves admit on request that there may be a waterbed effect. If the Netherlands were to introduce this legislation, it would be likely that two-handed tickets would be offered via a platform in a country where there is no regulation of the purchase price. Then how do you deal with these foreign parties? It is clear that the CDA Group has very serious doubts as to whether this law will actually work in practice, however sympathetic the intention is. We look forward to receiving the answers from the initiators and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rij. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 10 April 2016, six years and four days after the House of Representatives had adopted the initiative bill we are debating today, I received an e-mail from viagogo. I could download my tickets to Hans Teeuwen's new performance. More than a month earlier I was surprised that I could still get tickets, because they are usually sold out in no time. I didn't pay attention to the price at the time, but now that I saw the euro amount in black and white, I was shocked: €99 per ticket; €29.70 booking fees, €5.95 administration costs and VAT, the low rate, that is, because we would like to keep the performing arts accessible in the Netherlands and therefore the tickets and booking costs are only charged at 6%. I also saw now that it was a try-out. Online research taught me that the original selling price was €20 per ticket. Thanks to viagogo, the two of us could go in for €240. The difference of €200 did not end up with Hans Teeuwen or De Meervaart. There has been talk of enforcement. I am such a passionate consumer who, in such a case, likes to go to court or a dispute settlement committee, if there is such a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u10	I wonder whether the D66 spokesperson, in the concrete example she mentions, would have been willing to pay that high amount, so apart from the relationship between administration costs, VAT and handling costs. Would the spokesperson himself have agreed to pay that price for that performance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u11	An interesting question. As far as I'm concerned, that would depend on where my money went, to the artist or to a salesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u12	My question follows on from Mr Duthler's and concerns the same case. Suppose you had the opportunity in such a situation with others in the same boat to start a collective action, for example an action offered through the SP hotline. Would you have done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u13	I have to think hard about this example, but I said I would see a challenge in it, in the positive sense of the word, to take action. I wouldn't be calculating how many hours and how much euros that would cost me. It would be a matter of principle. Today we are talking about an initiative proposal to ban the resale of tickets at a higher price. Between the adoption of the bill in the Lower House and today sits seven and a half years. My own experience just described suggests that, insofar as you want to find it a problem, unlike the resale industry claims, the problem has not been solved by itself. But is "ticket scalping," as it is called, actually a problem? If someone on the second-hand market wants to buy a ticket for a much higher price than the new price, should he or she not know? The market, according to one of the participants in the expert meeting that our committee organised on this subject, would determine what the intrinsic reasonableness of a price is "the iustum premium', not "the legislator'. The fact that we are subsidising art and culture in the Netherlands is a good thing in the view of my group. A market is a place where providers and seekers exchange freely. As an allocation mechanism, as far as my group is concerned, the free market is in principle preferable to coercion, i.e. it is necessary and prohibited. In principle, because one condition is that the market works, i.e. leads to maximization of well-being, economists unfortunately call it "nut." Sometimes an intermediary can help by bringing the consumer and producer into contact with each other or taking over the consumer's search function. Searching takes time and time is money, so it is conceivable that an intermediary is welfare-enhancing. Proponents of free resale argue that resale at a higher price contributes to consumer welfare because those who are most willing to do so will receive the ticket. They argue that the fact that there is a resale market shows that the supplier priced the cards too low on the first-hand market. Mr. Chairman. My group dares to say that artists are not only interested in the financial proceeds of their actions. They also want their most loyal fans in the room, and that is not necessarily the ones with the most money. That's why they want to keep their performances accessible. They attach to applause, ambiance and atmosphere, and to their reputation, which can be damaged by resale at exorbitant prices. That's why artists like to perform in Paradiso, even if they can get a stadium full. Mick Jagger, who was in Amsterdam ten days ago, is not getting any satisfaction from reselling at higher prices. "I'm very much against the secondary ticket market. I don't know anyone who isn't. I think it should be illegal," he said in an interview with the Chicago Tribune. Then the consumer side of the market. When consumers are well informed, believers in rational consumers say, they make an informed choice in a free market. Anyone who doesn't bother to inform themselves, it's up to you. But first of all, the online card sales market makes access to information difficult by deliberately applying legal techniques and tactics that put people on the wrong foot, for example by giving the appearance of the website the impression that it is a first-hand market. But the real problem is in the bots, algorithms that quickly buy up cards before anyone of flesh and blood can access it. According to Ariel Ezrachi of the Oxford Law Faculty, who spoke recently at the Veer Foundation, the existence of such systems necessitates a fundamental review of the supervision of market forces. For example, outsourcing pricing to algorithms creates de facto price agreements between providers, albeit not made by humans, but by machines. In the eyes of Ezrachi, laws and regulations and the legal task of consumer watchdogs are not equipped for this. We also know by now that people and therefore consumers are systematically irrational. The 2018 Millions' Note rightly devoted a paragraph to this. And yesterday it became known that the Nobel Prize for Economics was awarded to the founder of the behavioral economy, Richard Thaler. One of the insights: more information often leads to worse rather than better choices, especially when factually correct information is deliberately presented in such a way that it puts the consumer on the wrong foot. The consumer must find out how the price he or she gets to see relates to the new price. And before he or she is searched out, the concert or the exhibition is sold out because also for that, brokers buy tickets via bots on.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Apart from that, it is a question of whether we should only take the money price that someone is willing to pay as a measure of the value he or she attaches to an access card. There are fans who would like to spend a night in a sleeping bag for a ticket or to get a place near the stage. I have a lively memory of the Rolling Stones concert in 1970 in the RAI in Amsterdam. Therefore, from both the supplier and the questioner's point of view, resale is a reduction in welfare, and my group does not see any positive external effects that compensate for this. The opposite seems to us to be the case, because we want to make culture accessible to a wide audience in the Netherlands. There is one exception to that external security rule: producers who suspect that their actions will not be sold out can reduce that risk, a risk to their wallet, if all the cards are purchased by an intermediary taking over that risk. That would encourage the offer of these kinds of gigs. But that remains possible if we adopt this bill, because vendors are free to sell tickets to niche concerts with a margin of as much as 20%. However, this does not seem to me to be the most profitable activity for them, which explains why lobbyists have stirred themselves up in recent weeks. And there is another potential disadvantage for both producer and consumer. Theaters in the US complain that in some sold-out performances the first rows remain empty because the brokers have not managed to wear the cards through their channel and because consumers did not know that there were any cards left. Then there's the question of enforcement. The previous speaker has already commented on this in detail. Can we count on consumers to get their rights? And if not, should we reject the proposal for that reason? It is now impossible to sue against resale and without a chance to go to a dispute committee with this. We can do that if this bill is accepted. This could have a preventive effect, and the fact that the resale lobby has been so active suggests that it is indeed expecting enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr Van Rij mentioned earlier that the existing lack of will in the Civil Code already offers grounds for destroying an agreement, such as abuse of circumstances, error and so on. Now a specific ground for destruction is added, namely the apparently unreasonable price, even if the price increase is more than 20%. Why does the D66 spokesman think that the newly proposed ground for destruction will lead to the enforcement of this law and the already existing lack of will and therefore not grounds for destruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u15	I think that because it has been found that the existing grounds are not sufficient to be right in such matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u16	Do you think so, or do you know it? Do you have any idea that any attempt has been made to destroy an agreement on the basis of misuse of circumstances or error?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u17	I don't have a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u18	Shall we ask the initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u19	Very good. Apart from individual people, there are fan clubs that can act as a collective. Of course, we all know that there are sometimes mass claims and that profits are made there, but fan clubs are passionate clubs of people with the same goal, with the same passion and interest. My group has a few questions for the authors. The first concerns the scope of the law. Does this apply to all types of admission tickets, so besides performances and competitions, does it also include exhibitions? My group is asking this question because in the United States several museums have been hit by attacks, if I may call it that, by intermediaries who bought access cards for popular exhibitions thanks to technology. For the Leonardo da Vinci exhibition at the National Gallery in London a few years ago, cards were offered online for £400, while the official entrance fee was £16. We shouldn't forget that next year the maps for the Marten and Oopjentshow at the Rijksmuseum will be bought and sold by brokerbots to whom most of the money is given? My second question has to do with the aforementioned subsidising of art and culture. One of its aims is to keep it accessible through a lower price. This effect is partly or completely nullified when cards are resold at an extra cost of 20%. Our question to the initiators is whether it is true that the bill does not distinguish between subsidised and non-subsidised events and, if so, why. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that my group tends to vote in favour of this bill. However, my group still needs an answer to my questions in order to have a proper balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I give the floor to Mrs Beuving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my admiration for the commitment and long-termness shown by the initiators of this bill in the preparation and handling of this bill. This bill provides for a regulation on the resale of tickets for a previously organised public event in the field of sport or culture in the Netherlands. The explanatory memorandum rightly points out that resale of tickets is not a new phenomenon. The conditions under which this trade takes place have changed considerably. The Internet has greatly increased and professionalised the wholesale trade in access cards. At the start of pre-sale, admission tickets are now bought massively by professional intermediaries, who then resell the tickets at significantly higher prices. The PvdA Group supports the efforts of initiators to address the problem of limiting access to events arising from previous developments. Consumers should be able to attend a performance or a competition at an appropriate price instead of having to purchase it at usury prices on the secondary market of brokering. The PvdA Group therefore shares the motives of the authors of this bill. However, with regard to the concrete content of the legislative proposal before us, we still have doubts and related questions. Initiators have opted for the following civil-law construction: an access card may be sold by a professional seller at a price higher than the original entry card to be indicated on the access card, provided that the price increase, including the direct costs of administration and dispatch, is not manifestly unreasonable both directly and indirectly. In any event, the price increase is clearly considered unreasonable if it exceeds 20% of the original price. If an access card has been sold at a higher price than is permitted in breach of the foregoing, the amount paid by the buyer above the original price and the authorised increase for the direct costs of administration and dispatch shall be deemed to be unduly paid. In addition, the legislative proposal provides that this regulation cannot be waived to the detriment of a consumer; in this sense, the proposed regulation is of a mandatory nature. The chosen civil-law construction has a rather tricky side to it. First of all, this applies to the measure of obvious unreasonableness. In general, the question of what is unreasonable pricing is not easy to answer. What one finds an unreasonable price can be a price that the other wants to pay. In civil law it is therefore up to the parties to an agreement to determine what price they consider reasonable and wish to agree in the specific case. The system of the present legislative proposal is not leading what parties have agreed, but it is assumed that agreed prices can be manifestly unreasonable. And when it comes to it, it's the civil judge who's gonna have to determine if that's the case. Fortunately, the bill provides some guidance by stating that a price increase on resale of an access card is considered unreasonable in any case if it exceeds 20% of the original price, i.e. the price stated on the access card. Why, I ask the initiators, have they not chosen in the legislative proposal just this hard 20% limit instead of also keeping open the possibility that an increase of 20% or less in the specific case could be unreasonable? Is keeping that possibility open not leading to unnecessary uncertainty and legal trouble? Mr. Chairman. In the reply, the initiators pointed out, inter alia, that the resale of tickets in the field of sport and culture is a matter of general interest. Events in the field of sport and culture must be accessible to all, including those on lower incomes. The PvdA Group shares this point of view wholeheartedly. However, the question arises as to whether this bill will really promote the presence of people with a small scholarship at these events. The construction chosen in this bill means that resale of tickets at too high a price remains possible, but that the buyer can recover it overpaid as unduly paid. A buyer with a small scholarship will then already stumble over the first obstacle, namely the need to buy the ticket at the too high price. The PvdA Group does not see how the prospect of being able to recover the excess paid as wrongly paid will help people with a small scholarship to overcome this obstacle in civil proceedings, with the costs of bringing proceedings. Can the initiators explain how they see this in practice? Is it not right for those with a wider scholarship who can buy too expensive tickets, then go to the event, enjoy them and then recover the overpaid tickets in the system of this bill? During the interview with experts mentioned above, it was argued from the professional secondary sellers that there are enough possibilities to actually comply with the provisions of the bill. For example, the example was mentioned of offering a fan package of a popular artist with an access card for around the original price, plus for example a T-shirt and a hat for like 300 euros. Does the PvdA Group see correctly, I ask the initiators, that such a package deal according to the letter of the bill is in line with the bill, including the proposed paragraph 3 of Article 4a, book 7 BW? The idea behind that third paragraph is apparently that if potential buyers know how much the access card costs and what potentially significant price there may be for related items, such as T-shirt and cap or services, such as dinner, are calculated, these potential buyers or will refrain from buying. I fear that many people are prepared to go far if they want something very badly and can afford it. I would like a response from the initiators on this point. That means, in view of the above, that this bill poses a dilemma for the PvdA Group. On the one hand, we support the underlying efforts of the initiators to counter the massive purchase of tickets and sell them at much higher prices, which reduces the availability of cards for people with lower incomes. However, our input so far has shown that we have doubts as to whether, in the individual case, the private-law route chosen in this legislative proposal really offers a solution for people with a small grant. But perhaps initiators are hoping for a preventive effect of this bill, which should lead to secondary ticket vendors adapting their prices to the new law. Can the initiators still shine their light on this? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answers of the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mrs Beuving. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u23	Madam President. I admit that I cannot properly estimate the chances that tonight the Dutch team will win the game against Sweden with 7-0. I don't know. But what I do know is that a large number of supporters probably can't watch the game in the stadium: their tickets were blocked by the KNVB last week. The reason for this is the fact that the KNVB has found that at least 1,461 KNVB tickets were purchased by intermediaries and then, of course, sold at much higher prices. According to the KNVB, this practice is contrary to its terms of sale. The result is that these Orange Supporters are seriously duped. They no longer have a valid ticket, they have paid a far too high price and have to see how they are compensated for their damage. I'll come back to this later. This current incident is not on its own. In the Chambers, others have also pointed out that the present proposal has described several identical and similar situations over a number of years, also recently, both in the field of sport and in the field of cultural events. I would remind you of the case of Adele, you know, the famous singer from England, from last year. The tickets for the concert of this popular singer were offered for extremely high amounts within ten minutes of the start of online sales on a resale website. There are, I understand, even tickets sold for a price of €2,298, p.a. That's the practice. When I hear one of my colleagues asking what exactly the problem is, I think that the problem is very well outlined. What's the bill now and what's the problem? Back to the beginning, when the proposers explained the bill. They said this a number of years ago: "Continue selling tickets is not a new phenomenon. However, the conditions under which this trade takes place have changed significantly in recent years. Due to the internet, the wholesale trade in access cards has increased significantly and has also been professionalised."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u24	I actually have a question, because I was a bit intrigued by that example of that football card for tonight. And not just because it concerns topicality. But is it not true that in such a situation, on the basis of the general conditions under which that ticket was sold by the KNVB, the buyer who then bought that ticket on the second hand market, for example for that €50, can start legal proceedings with the current law in hand? Why doesn't that happen in situations like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u25	Yeah, I think this is a good question. I would like to go further on that in my text. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later. I'll continue with the quote. "Where ads in the newspaper a few years ago were some of the tickets of a few traders, these are now mainly professional intermediaries who, at the start of the pre-sale, buy up the tickets massively and then resell them at a significantly higher price. The resale of tickets is currently not regulated. However, the resale of access tickets at a higher price has a significant impact on the accessibility of cultural and sporting events to a wide audience." So much for the proposers and the initiators. The above-mentioned methodology of intermediaries with their sales sites has led to a significant price drive and the exclusion of consumers who cannot afford high prices and thus are excluded from the possibility of attending a particular sporting or cultural event. That, I believe, violates the fundamental rights of consumers. And that is what this is all about today: the position of consumers and how we can improve them. The applicants consider that events in the field of sport and culture should be accessible to all at a reasonable price. That is what the bill is aimed at and written on. In other words, the proposal seeks to strengthen the position of consumers. That is necessary because other suggestions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u26	What does Mr. Ruers mean by a "reasonable price"? Isn't that what a consumer is willing to do? And doesn't that depend on the specific circumstances of the case? Can you give general guidelines for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u27	Yeah, I think so. One of your colleagues said: you should actually take care of it in public. Then the legislator would also face this problem, because what is a reasonable amount of public money? If you read the documents correctly and the explanation of how the initiators came to the 120% at the time, then you can see how this has been substantiated. There is, of course, a limit to be drawn where it is reasonable and not reasonable. I think that the justification, which was fairly detailed in the documents, is reasonable to say that the 20% surcharge paid by the intermediary or the buyer, is a reasonable compensation for the intermediary's efforts and work. It's still arbitrary, I'll give you that. But I think it weighs everything, as it is described in the documents, is a reasonable amount. You can discuss for a long time whether it should not be 130% or 150%, but I think that proposal is well-founded. I have already said that this bill is necessary because other suggestions for a solution did not work out and because, despite repeated requests, the government as legislator has not been prepared to provide adequate legislation. Now that the legislator is failing, it is understandable that the proposers are trying to fill that gap in the interests of the consumer. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another aspect, which has been less highlighted, even though I have heard speakers talking about over-prices for tickets. I am referring to the government's policy of keeping cultural and sporting events accessible to large groups. It is widely recognised that sport and culture are important in our society. The government therefore provides subsidies and incentives to keep sport and culture accessible to all people and not just to a select group. Speculation with tickets runs counter to that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u28	It is not just about keeping sports and cultural events accessible to large groups, is it not about subsidising sport and culture? It is also a question of subsidising certain sporting events and cultural performances, if not disappearing from the market in the absence of demand. In my view, therefore, the instrument of subsidy is not intended for this purpose at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u29	No, I think you're right. There are two categories, both the category and the objective you mention and the objective I have outlined. Both are valuable and considered valuable by the government. It is therefore not only for the broad group, but also for the accessibility. It's for both, actually. It's also for smaller companies, I'd say. In the information recently requested, I have seen that all possible events are now under attack by the buyers, both large and small events and both subsidised and non-subsidised events. I come to one aspect that has already been mentioned by other speakers: criminal law. The proposers propose to solve the problem outlined by an amendment to the Civil Code. The proposal provides consumers with a means of tackling unreasonable price increases through civil law. I have noticed that some people who say they agree with the seriousness of the problem prefer to tackle the problem through criminal law. At least, in that direction they point. I understand that approach, but I do not think that is the most practical approach at the moment. In my opinion, the seriousness of the matter is not such that the public prosecutor, especially in view of the high workload and the great delays there, will feel called upon to take the lead and enforce this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u30	In case Mr Ruers refers to my speech on behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to correct something. I didn't specifically mention criminal law. I've been talking about a public-law approach. It could be criminal in nature, but it could also be administrative in nature. You can indeed introduce a criminal ban, but you can also deal with it otherwise, as happens in Belgium. You can choose an approach that is of a public nature, in which the government has a role and in which the government can also maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u31	I agree with you, but I was not referring to your comment. I was referring to an earlier remark that I read in the documents. It suggested that criminal law could not be a solution? Moreover, criminal law, as the government argued earlier in a similar legislative proposal years ago, should only be used if all other instruments, including civil law, fail. The starting point of criminal law as an ultimatum remedium then leads to an in principle cautious attitude of the Public Prosecutor. Therefore, in my opinion, criminal law is, at least for the time being, too heavy and it is preferable to wait first for the practical experience of the civil road of the legislative proposal. Should the evaluation prove, for example after three years, that the heavier instrument of criminal law is necessary or desirable, this can be considered. I would like to make a comment on the subject of enforcement. It has been argued that its enforcement does not pose much or is problematic, as the process to court is far too costly in relation to the importance of the case. Mr Prast has already made an excellent comment on this. I fully agree with that. In this context, the authors have rightly pointed out the possibility of collective action alongside individual action, but I would also like to draw attention to the possibility of a promising new initiative in the case law: the court hearing the case. That's typically a judge who could solve problems at that level, that kind of little problem. But also through the course of ordinary individual action is quite possible, in my opinion. Mr Prast has already said something about this. If you see the importance of it, you'll certainly have an opportunity to go to court once this bill has been passed. I see no problems at that point. My experience as a lawyer says this is quite possible. Along this road, it seems possible to resolve disputes of limited size and nature quickly and cheaply. In addition to this, others have already said that it may be assumed that once a civil precedent has been established, there will be little problem with follow-up cases and possibly lead to proper regulation of the market nationwide and perhaps also to public-law regulations. It's possible. My next comment concerns the free market. There have been objections from some quarters to the legislative proposal arguing that free market forces are limited by the envisaged legislative amendment. That is correct in itself, but I do not share that concern. I note that the objections are supported by comparisons in other areas. For example, it has been argued that the massive purchase of tickets and their reselling at exorbitant prices is "normal market operation." They say, for example, if I want to resell my car, I can ask for it what I want. Of course, that kind of equations are flawed. In the present case, it is not an ordinary market product or the normal functioning of the market. On the contrary, there is a specific niche market in sport and culture. This limits the impact of the proposal to that category. Secondly, these are unique events, for which there is no equivalent alternative at the time of the event. The customer therefore has no real alternative and is actually in a compulsive position. As a result of the massive buying-up of access cards, in my opinion, there is no longer a free market operation in the normal sense of the word, but rather a serious market distortion. Moreover, there are a lot of events where public money goes to. As I said, we are subsidising the theatre sector, and we are also subsidising other sectors, but most of the time it is because we believe that theatre should be accessible to a wide audience. That's what we stand for as a government. And then comes a market player that makes scarce product even more scarce and takes advantage of that cleverly constructed scarcity. I no longer call that a free market operation, but an abuse of circumstances. My final topic is the KNVB. I will return to the KNVB and the tickets for tonight's Dutch-Sweden competition. I heard there's still cards left, so maybe it's something for the lovers. Although, I don't know if there's much interest. But at least there's been a lot of action in those cards. On the website of the KVNB last Friday I found the following text. "The KNVB blocks 1,461 tickets for the Netherlands-Sweden. Following earlier actions, the Dutch-Sweden World Championship qualification competition on Tuesday 10 October now blocked 1,461 tickets. These are tickets for which the KNVB is sure that they are or are traded through the "black market" and that is contrary to the KNVB Standard Terms and Conditions." I continue: "The KNVB recommends Oranjesupporters to check the list of blocked tickets via the above document. Supporters who consider that their card is unduly blocked may contact the KNVB (...). The KNVB advises the supporters who have a blocked ticket, to request the purchase amount back from the selling party prior to the match. No refund shall be made from the KNVB." So that's the picture: the tickets are blocked, they're worth nothing and the buyer should go to the intermediate seller, because the KNVB doesn't do anything with that. That's a special situation. It says below: "Supporters with a blocked ticket are requested to report to the KNVB. On the basis of the statements (...) the union can continue to address the black marketers." This suggests that there will be a follow-up action from the KNVB towards the black traders. It also says: "The KNVB has long been fighting against the illegal resale of tickets at football matches. Well-organised companies or individuals buy up cards massively and sell them for an exorbitantly high price. Eventually disappointed football fans, without a legitimate ticket, suffer from this. The higher prices for the supporters and risks of supporters in home subjects - that is the security problem - are a threat to the accessibility, hospitality and security of football stadiums." I still quote the KNVB: "Football must remain accessible to everyone. Thousands of Dutch people enjoy football every weekend in the stadium. From all layers of society: that makes football unique. Supporters should be able to visit a football match for a fair price, so that every football lover can enjoy the fun atmosphere in stadiums. For this reason, the KNVB considers that unlawful resale of access tickets should be addressed hard. The KNVB calls on the Eerste Kamer to adopt the bill on resale of tickets."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you for quoting the KNVB website extensively, because that was indeed my previous question. In fact, I think this shows exactly what the problem is now. Supporters who bought a ticket via the second-hand market, which was not allowed, should go to the seller for their own right. It says, of course: yes, sorry, we just have a contract of sale and sale; go to court. They don't. The proposed bill isn't gonna change that at all, is it? This means that as a supporter you can only lie at two anchors. You can say that the validity of the ticket is not good, based on the general terms and conditions, and you have a legal provision in hand. But in both cases, you have to go to court, and you won't. The Council of Justice has also said in its opinion on this draft law: we expect a minimal flow of lawsuits. So what are we gonna do about the problem that these tickets are gonna end up in the second-hand market? I think that is a very big problem too. I'd like to have said that here. Shouldn't you be taking advantage of entirely different possibilities, for example public-law alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u33	I would like to comment on your last point. Unfortunately, there are no public initiatives. That is why the proposers had to take this initiative. That's what I said at the beginning. Then I come to Mr Bakker of the Council for Justice. I will not take up too much of Mr Bakker's remarks on this subject. I do not know what he thinks, but from my practice as a lawyer I say that the Council of Justice has no experience of this and does not know the background to the case. I don't know how he gets the idea that there won't be any trials. It's never been tried. The bill hasn't even come into force yet. He's ahead of something he can't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u34	Finally, I am going to go on to Mr Bakker's authority. Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u35	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u36	You're a lawyer; I'm not. Secondly, however, I think it is well-founded. Your own example of the KNVB shows that it just doesn't happen. With this new legal possibility, citizens will really not go to court, and certainly not citizens who cannot afford such an expensive course of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u37	No, but okay. Then we're back to the point where they won't go to court. I think so. This bill makes it possible to go to court because you think it's unreasonable. Because with that, you have a legal basis and a standard that you can refer to the judge. This is a very nice measure to put forward, but we have no experience with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u38	I would like to hear a little more from Mr Ruers. Does Mr Ruers not see the problem that the PvdA Group sees? So people with a small scholarship have to buy an overpriced ticket first, with that little scholarship. I think that's a good reason to drop out. Then no football or beautiful cultural performance. And if anyone did buy that expensive ticket, with savings or with a loan from someone from around him, they'd still have to charge for that procedure. Does Mr Ruers really see that as a real possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u39	Sure, I see that as a real possibility. But you have to organize it properly. That brings me to the end of my story. You have to organize the people, starting with a collective action. There are also people who have it so broad and who think it is so basic that they do it individually. But collective action seems obvious to me. Our proposal is therefore aimed at adopting this bill and then organising a collective action. To keep it very practical: I would very much like to call those 1,461 people whose tickets have been blocked by the KNVB along this road to join us. The SP notification point is for that. We would like to organise this and use the first action on the basis of this bill to see if we can achieve our rights. I think we're gonna make it. The financial care for those people will be minimal. That won't be that much. I think anyone can wear what they ask. I would also like to call on the KNVB to participate on the other hand. The KNVB asks for support from the people who have been injured and asks them to report to the union. I therefore believe that the KNVB should participate in helping these people so that they can get their money back. Then you have a nice collective action. I think that then it is clear what the KNVB wants, namely that these measures will be put to an end. I think that with this law in our hands, we are a long way in the right direction. I understand all your concerns, but all in all, this is actually the only decent solution we have at the moment. We therefore fully support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u40	Thank you. I call Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Almost ten years ago, it has been said more often this afternoon, the initiators have submitted the bill that we are debating in plenary today. As early as 21 May 2008, the initiative proposal of the law was submitted to the House of Representatives. On 8 June 2010, the proposal was examined in the Upper House. From the outset, my group has been very critical. An expert meeting in November 2015, five years after that, and two new compositions of this Chamber further, have not reduced or mitigated those criticisms. Before explaining that criticism, I intended to briefly outline the scheme in order to properly assess it. But I do not agree with that, because it has been done so often by the other spokesmen that I immediately go on to share the legal objections, after which I will deal with the more fundamental and practical objections. As far as the legal objections are concerned, I shall begin with the criterion of obvious unreasonableness. The condition for resale is that a price increase is neither direct nor indirect manifestly unreasonable. In any event, a price increase is deemed to be manifestly unreasonable if it exceeds 20% of the price indicated on the access card. That has been mentioned here before. My group's question is: how is the criterion of clearly unreasonable pricing to be fulfilled if a price increase is less than 20% of the original price? When is it immediately manifestly unreasonable and when is it, indirectly, manifestly unreasonable? My group understands that the initiators believe that it is up to a judge to determine when this is the case in such cases. However, justice is not realistic, because of the costs involved, partly in view of the level of prices that will often be involved. I would like to hear the views of my group from the initiators. If an access card has been offered for sale in breach of the proposed Article 4a and a contract has been concluded as a result, the amount paid by the buyer above the price stated on the access card shall be deemed to be unduly paid. The sale is also null and void, because the provision is mandatory in relation to consumers. Under Article 340 of the WFD, fighting with a mandatory provision leads to the destruction of a legal act. In concrete terms, this means that a consumer who has unexpectedly bought an access card for a price that is contrary to the proposed Article 4a, Book 7 BW, has two choices. One is that he recovers it overpaid by claiming undue payment. The second is that he has the contract annulled by appeal against the mandatory provision and recovers the full amount paid, also by appealing to the undue payment. In many cases, a corridor to the public court or an alternative dispute resolution authority will be necessary to ensure the legal protection he is going to enjoy with the legislative proposal. Both roads are not free and are not obvious for other reasons. In other words, how realistic is it that a consumer goes and can invoke the nullity of a contract? How realistic is it that consumers will get their money back using the legal basis of undue payment? The consumer will, as I have already mentioned, in many cases need the judge to do so. If the consumer chooses a course to the public court, he will have to pay a registry fee anyway. And despite the fact that a consumer does not have to have a trial representative in a canton court, a company will be assisted and often have a head start for that reason. In many cases, in spite of all good intentions, this makes the fight against justice already uneven. Is the proposed legal protection of consumers not above all a theoretical one? In short, the legal objections raised by the VVD Group are therefore one of the reasons why it is not realistic to set a course to court in order to get it back overpaid; secondly, that a course to court to obtain a ruling on the criterion of a direct and indirect apparently unreasonable price increase is not realistic; and thirdly, that the fight between consumers and businesses is often unequal. I'd like a response from the initiators. I now come to the more fundamental and practical objections. I shall begin with the more fundamental objections. These relate in particular to the private law nature of the scheme. This is preceded by the question of the nature and extent of the problem solved by this legislative proposal. What exactly is the problem? What's the problem look like? And how big is the problem? When it comes to the problem of opaque pricing and combating exorbitant ticket prices, the question is whether this can be solved by means of a private law regulation, or whether it should be left to the market players themselves to resolve this problem. It is against the liberal nature of my group that we should be the first to resort to legal instruments, which also intervene in market forces, especially since there has been insufficient efforts to solve the alleged problem with other instruments. For such legal intervention, there must be serious and urgent reasons. There should also be no alternative instruments that are less substantial and have a different character. Do the initiators know examples of attempts to solve the alleged problem with other instruments? Are the reasons put forward by the initiators serious and urgent enough? Are there alternative instruments that are less radical and different in character? Is there really such a serious situation that they require the introduction of the proposed regulation? The VVD group is wondering, but the initiators would like to be informed again. Therefore, the initiators would like to have a vision of how they see and appreciate the problem at the moment, almost ten years after submitting the initiative proposal. Assuming that the VVD Group is convinced by the initiators and shares the problem outlined, it really wonders whether the nature of the proposed scheme is appropriate as a solution to the problem outlined by the initiators. The proposed scheme is intended to serve a general interest. Private law is designed to protect private interests. This is where the VVD group is concerned. In addition, the market itself has now initiated solutions to counter the so-called black market. For example, there is the National Information Point Internet Scam and Marktplaats.nl offers comprehensive information and advice to users to discover and prevent fraud. In addition, alternative platforms have been established in the United Kingdom and Germany to combat fraud and protect consumers. Are the initiators familiar with this? If so, how do they appreciate these initiatives? I see one of the initiators nodding, so I'm looking forward to the answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u42	I think I've lost track a little bit. Fraud is illegal, already. We're talking about something that's okay now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u43	If you are talking about fraud that is illegal, if it is really about fraud of such magnitude, then I shall hear from the initiators one more time, then the big question that my group is asking is whether you should combat it with a private law regulation or whether you should opt for other instruments. We usually fight fraud by means of administrative or criminal instruments. Finally, Mr President, my group has a few questions about the effects of the proposed regulation on the market and on the economy. Have the initiators taken account of these effects at all? As I mentioned, there was an expert meeting in November 2015. One of the experts mentioned as possible effects the potential damage to employment and the Dutch economy, the gambling of black traders and the transfer to the secondary ticket market, which means that the bill misses its purpose. Please have a reflection of the initiators on these possible effects. In summary, Mr President, the VVD Group wonders whether and, if so, what problem this legislative proposal solves and whether the solution should not be left to the market itself. In addition, and not insignificantly, it appreciates the proposed legal protection of consumers and the possibilities for consumers to seek a ruling from the courts, especially as theoretical and not as realistic. In practice, consumers will not quickly go to court. For this, the financial importance will be too small and the threshold too high. The VVD Group looks forward with more than average interest to the response and the answers to the questions by the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. Does one of the other Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I propose that we suspend until at least 3.30 p.m. Is that long enough for the initiators? Do you need longer? Shorter? But 3.30 p.m. is the time we need in connection with committee meetings. The question is not whether it is sooner but whether it should be later. It has to be longer, it's said. As far as I can hear you, 3:45 p.m.? It's requested at 4:00 p.m. Then I'll suspend until 4:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u45	The next item is the continuation of the debate on legislative proposal 31461, the proposal for a law of Members Jasper van Dijk and Van Toorenburg amending Book 7 of the Civil Code in connection with the introduction of rules on the resale of tickets for a public event in the field of sport or culture, i.e. the Act on the resale of tickets. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions. We are proud to be able to defend this law today. This law was tabled by our predecessors Mrs Arda Gerkens and Mrs Nicolien van Vroonhoven. We will see Mrs Gerkens in this Chamber today. The world is small. I am sure she will follow our input critically. We're gonna do our best. The Ticket Act, also known as the Ticket Act, was adopted by the House of Representatives in April 2010. In the meantime we are seven years further and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, we wanted to give the sector the opportunity to deal with the problem of the professional resale of tickets and the high prices of tickets. If we look at the practice today, we see that, unfortunately, there has been no reduction in the trade between Member States. On the contrary, the ticket trade has increased rather, especially because of all the digital possibilities. An additional reason for the late treatment is the fact that the original applicants have since left the House of Representatives. It took some time to find a replacement. Then there were a number of elections, which did not speed up the process. Mrs Van Toorenburg and the undersigned, as you can see, are now fully ready for treatment. We hope for a successful outcome and do our utmost to answer all your questions carefully. We'll do the answer as follows. I will begin with a general justification of our law, I will deal with the extent of the problem and I will answer some of the Members' questions. Mrs Van Toorenburg will focus on the legal aspects of the law. It will explain why the civil road has been chosen. It will also address the role of the ACM and the questions on the European dimension. Mr. Chairman. The Act on resale tickets came into being because applicants found that cards for both cultural and sporting events are not rarely resold for high amounts. This has a negative impact on the accessibility of the event. It is not so much a private person who wants to sell his card to his neighbor. The law doesn't want to prohibit that either. It is more about the professional trade in second-hand cards. We have numerous examples of this, which I will explain later. These traders are deliberately trying to disrupt the so-called primary ticket trade. They buy tickets on purely for the purpose of selling them at a profit. That is why we are talking about usury trading. Applicants find this undesirable because they believe that cultural and sporting events are unique events. A concert by an artist is not comparable to a regular market product. An artist often does not perform more than one or two nights. There is therefore a limited number of cards available. And that's exactly what the broker's playing on. They know that fanciers want to attend the concert and are therefore willing to pay a lot of money for it, if they have that money. People with a small scholarship will refrain from visiting more quickly if they have to pay a multiple of the original price. Precisely for this reason, applicants believe that the resale of tickets should be subject to rules. These are unique events in sport and culture that we believe should be as widely accessible as possible. I would also like to emphasise this to Mrs Beuving, who rightly made a point of this. At the time when professional vendors offer expensive tickets, this has major disadvantages for all parties. First of all, for the consumer who has to pay much more money than necessary. In addition, for the artist whose reputation is damaged. Also the organizer suffers a disadvantage because seats may remain empty due to the ticket trade. All arguments to limit the price of a ticket. Mr Ruers also referred to these issues. Mr Van Rij asked what exactly the scale of the problem is. He points out that the latest investigation dates back to 2009. Applicants would have liked to have new research done, but that cost €25,000. Unfortunately, we did not have that budget, which is why we have looked at the situation ourselves. Anyone who digs into this will soon find out how ubiquitous the problem is today. The secondary ticket business is in full swing. You know the example of singer Adele, about which there was a lot of fuss last year. Tickets for her concerts were offered for sale for exorbitant amounts. Not rarely we found tickets from €1,000 to €5,000. It caused great annoyance among lovers and the singer herself, who was accused of pushing up the price herself. You know the example of the KNVB which last week took over 1,000 tickets off the market for the Dutch-Sweden competition. Mr Ruers pointed that out. At the moment when the KNVB has the impression that tickets are being bought up on a large scale for the purpose of reselling, this buyer receives a warning from the KNVB. Tickets are no longer accepted. We note that this leads to annoyance and therefore understand that the KNVB is insisting on legislation. I would also point out that last year's Belgian survey showed that as many as 63,000 tickets were bought up and sold at 67% profit. I'm referring to Live Nation's numbers. They were also mentioned by Mrs Prast. There's no less than $1 billion in secondary ticket trading. In order to meet Mr Van Rij's wish even better, we did a small sample on the Internet yesterday. We came to the following examples. André Rieu will give ten concerts in the summer of 2018. We found no less than 1,578 tickets offered through resale. One of these providers charges €479 per card, while the original price is €107. He's offering six cards. The website on which this is offered then earns €515. That's the Seatwave website. For the Rolling Stones 263 tickets are available on Seatwave. The asking price is €729 per card. The original price is €205 per card. For Andrea Bocelli the original price is €50 per card and the asking price is now €199 per card. 41 tickets have been found for sale. Toto will give a concert on March 17th next year. Already there are 241 tickets for sale. The original price is €75. We found four tickets that were offered for €299 each. Also for sports competitions we see many tickets, for example 41 tickets for Feyenoord-Ajax via the website StubHub. The most expensive cost is as much as €382. The website Viagogo offers 72 maps. The most expensive is €449. In short, trading used cards is big business. Mrs Prast also mentioned the opaque market. I very much agree with her. Is it a primary or a secondary seller? A lot of people don't see the distinction at first sight. The media regularly pay attention to the subject. In the TV show Rambam, for example, a furious Youp of the Hek caught a ticket dealer in the act. The Kassa programme devoted several times to the subject. The BBC's documentary The great ticket scandal offers a revealing insight into the ticket trade. The VPRO has extensive articles on its website 3voor12.nl and made a broadcast of Argos. They all had the same message: big money is made from tickets. There's one more thing. The examples just mentioned mostly come from the Seatwave website. This is a special resale website that was purchased by a primary card vendor, Ticketmaster. Both companies are owned by one parent company, Live Nation. That's an American music group with a turnover of no less than $7.5 billion. The company organises events, books artists and sells tickets. It also owns the Dutch concert organizer MOJO. Through the purchase of Seatwave, Live Nation now also manages the trade in second hand cards. Each card sold through Seatwave generates substantial income for Live Nation. You will understand that the parent company has no problem with the sale of tickets. The fact that accessibility is affected does not seem to affect them. We regret that. In addition to Seatwave, there are numerous websites offering high-priced tickets. The website TicketSwap proves that it can go well. This website actually does what our bill aims to do: tickets may be resold on the platform, but not for more than 20% above the selling price. Many enthusiasts like to use TicketSwap. However, without legislation, intermediaries can still go ahead when it comes to pricing tickets on other websites. I now turn to Mr Van Rij's questions. He asks: does this law have the desired effect? We are pleased that Mr Van Rij commends our proposal. He asks if the invented drug is appropriate. We are convinced that this is an important step against the professional ticket trade. To begin with, it will have a deterrent effect. Ticket traders can no longer charge unlimited amounts for tickets. Buyers will be given an instrument to recover the overpaid amount. We believe that, after years of resale, doing nothing is not an option. The problem is well known. The House of Representatives has previously indicated that other routes are not desirable. In addition, after three years, an evaluation of this law will be carried out if it enters into force. Mr Van Rij also asks: is the amendment of the Civil Code a solution? I say to Mr Van Rij that buyers will be given an instrument to bring themselves, whether united or not, to justice. Organisations can help with collective action if they wish. Mrs Van Toorenburg will discuss the legal aspect further. I would also draw Members' attention to the fact that buyers cannot just go to court. If this law enters into force, they may also refer the matter to the Disputes Committee. It has already been set up by the industry and it is getting teeth through this law. People who apply to the Disputes Committee can use this law in hand with the 20% ceiling above the original price. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rij asked: can the initiators properly justify the deterrent effect? He also asked whether there was a risk that illegal trade would increase. As proposers, we give buyers of expensive cards an instrument to deal with resale. When a group of buyers takes collective action against a provider offering expensive tickets, this will have a deterrent effect on professional vendors. After all, the risk of a large yield is reduced. The question of whether the illegal trade will increase is a bit strange. Nor do we say that the ban on the possession of weapons should be lifted, as illegal trade will increase. With our law, we aim to stop the professional trade in access cards. Moreover, there have already been initiatives that would make this law a business model. I mentioned the TicketSwap website in that context. Nor does our law make it illegal to sell tickets: we only give the consumer a means in hand. Consumers are free to use or not to use this product. Mr Van Rij asked: is a citizen really going to start civil proceedings? We say that buyers are given an instrument and can unite in collective action. Organisations can help, for example concert organisations, consumer programmes, consumer organisations, fan clubs and also political parties have already come along. The court will then determine whether the price paid is manifestly unreasonable. We, as proposers, have, as we know, set the ceiling at 20%. The ACM referred earlier to the phenomenon of "selling in bid'. Mr Van Rij asked: can the initiators indicate whether they would like to apply the 20% unreasonableness test? The law states that 20% is the maximum above the original price. Whether this also applies to sale by auction, I leave it to the judge. We'll have to wait and see. Service charges must be stated separately. In this way, the overpaid amount can be easily calculated. Mr Van Rij asked whether it was known to the initiators that fewer and fewer citizens were seeking the way to civil justice. As far as we are concerned, civil justice is a passable road. We point to other areas where this applies, such as the download ban. Mr Ruers also pointed out the interesting development of the local court or district court, where cases were handled relatively simple and affordable. We look forward to that with interest. Finally, it is quite possible that collective processes are carried out thanks to the law. We would welcome that because of the terrifying effect. Mr Van Rij also asked whether, because of the waterbed effect, it would not be better to look for solutions at European level. I say to him that we would welcome a European approach to secondary ticketing. In the meantime, Member States are free to make their own policies. We also see this in our neighbouring countries, such as Belgium. Measures have also been taken in Spain, Poland, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Italy. The so-called waterbed effect is prevented by Dutch law if the trader focuses on a Dutch event. When it comes to the Dutch language area, it would be good if the Netherlands came up with legislation, as the Belgians already preceded us. In fact, the Belgians have also asked whether the Netherlands can also take measures, because they see ticket traders going to the Netherlands to offer tickets to Belgian events from the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Our bill is not contrary to European law. I refer to page 8 of the explanatory memorandum in which that is supported. I go to the questions of other Members, who were all, in fact, at the heart of the question of whether and to what extent this law works. I would like to draw your attention to five things, five possibilities that this law gives us. First of all, that is the possibility of the Disputes Committee. I would like to point out to Mrs Beuving that in the House of Representatives the Labour Party has called for this committee of disputes because of its low threshold. Secondly, there is the possibility of collective action. Thirdly, we refer to many innovative forms of justice. Neighborhood law has already been mentioned. Mrs Van Toorenburg will continue to do so later. Fourthly, there is the deterrent effect, also known as the preventive effect, that this is based on. If a number of times a case has been run because of expensive tickets and they are successful, it will scare off ticket traders. Fifthly, I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that an evaluation clause has been included in the law. After three years, the law will be reviewed and we can see if further action is needed. Mrs. Prast asked if buying a ticket is not just a matter of supply and demand. Indeed, that is often said to me. I disagree. I find buying a ticket for a cultural or sporting event something other than a regular market product. I would like to say that, as a government, we have the task of protecting such sectors and ensuring accessibility and accessibility. So in that sense too, it is important that the prices for tickets for this type of event are available. Mrs Beuving rightly asked: is not a low-income person deterred by the high price of the ticket? I refer to the five points I have just mentioned. It is, of course, precisely the intention of this law to lower prices, such as the example of TicketSwap that already uses that model. I refer to the preventive effect, the low-threshold legal process and the Disputes Committee. I would point out to Mrs Beuving that if we do not adopt this law, we will know for sure that nothing will happen, as there has been no policy for ten or fifteen years. We know that the market is seriously affected by high ticket prices. I would therefore like to encourage Mrs Beuving on this point to support the law, because then we will have policies with which we can act. Mr Ruers announced a hotline. We look forward to seeing that. Mrs Duthler asked if it was heavy enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u47	The wording of Mr Van Dijk intrigues me. In fact, he said, "I need to get the wording back, like: that bill gives us something to keep 'we'. I would like to hear a little bit more about that, because I do not think that this bill gives the government anything to maintain, but the citizen has to figure it out himself. That 'we' can maintain, I would like to see that completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u48	Mrs Beuving is absolutely right. It is also good to point out that this law does not prohibit the resale of tickets or the resale of high-price tickets. You are right: it is up to the citizen to take action. For that there are several routes, which I have just explained. Of course, as proposers, we assume that this will have an effect on the secondary ticket trade, precisely because of your legitimate concern that tickets should remain available for people with a lower income. That is precisely why we have devised this law, or an important reason, let me put it this way. Mrs Duthler asked whether the problem was significant enough for legislation. The answer to that question is, as far as we are concerned, a definite yes, otherwise we would not be standing here, of course. I would like to point out once again, with permission, that no policy has been adopted for years and that the authors note that the problem has become more serious than smaller. Mrs Duthler also asked whether this legislation could harm the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u49	I heard Mr. Van Dijk mention several times the dispute committee that has now been set up and the initiative of TicketSwap, if I am right. So these are examples of market initiatives that have already been developed in recent years, which is, of course, very positive. Does such a dispute committee also have a code of conduct that market players can voluntarily join? Then a distinction can also be made between so-called bona fide and malicious providers. Do I see Mrs Van Toorenburg now sign that she is going to go into that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u50	No, it's a good question. The code of conduct is before me, so I just wanted to quote from it. It's true what you're saying. Providers can join the EUSTA's Code of Conduct, which is the European Sectoral Organisation of Secondary Ticket Dealers. Article 11 of this Code of Conduct allows the setting up of a Disputes Committee. The authors would like to point out that, of course, this dispute committee will have much more impact if the present law is adopted. In that case, someone can also use the 20% rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u51	Does the code of conduct also include rules on the permitted increase in the case of resale of the admission price?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u52	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u53	Not that. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u54	That is precisely why this law is so necessary, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u55	I would like to know from Mr Van Dijk what powers such a dispute committee has. What kind of pronunciation can she make? Can it allocate a claim from the consumer concerned on the basis of undue payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u56	I quote from Article 11 of the Dispute Settlement Code: "A complaint is open to a dispute'. Paragraph 2: "The buyer has the possibility to submit a dispute to an independent intermediary." Paragraph 3: "decisions taken by this independent intermediary shall be binding and shall be complied with by the secondary market participants." Paragraph 4: "The President of the EUSTA shall temporarily act as an independent intermediary'. However, it concerns paragraph 3, decisions are binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u57	But that could still be something like a binding opinion. I have to say that I cannot quite imagine that a non-judicial body can grant a claim for repayment, a claim for undue payment. What legal force would that have? And then what can the citizen do with that statement in his hand? That's where it gets a little rough on me, I have to confess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u58	Rightful question. If you will allow me, I would like to say a few words about that myself in the second term. But Mrs Van Toorenburg will also comment on this in the first place, in particular on the case law. Mr. Chairman. I was with Mrs Duthler, who also asked: does this bill not damage the economy? I think that's an interesting question. I'd like to say, how? As far as the secondary ticket traders' earning model is concerned, yes, I can imagine that these ticket traders might earn a little less, but I would not regret that, as you will understand. In fact, if our law applies, then the money that has been paid in the past for an expensive ticket can now be spent on the event itself, on consumptions, on merchandising and on other matters. So I see no reason why this law would damage the economy. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I hope I have answered the questions asked satisfactorily. In abundance, I would remind you once again of the importance of the law. We don't want to ban the resale of tickets. We want to tackle professional intermediation with the sole aim of making profits. With this law, we are taking an important step in its approach. I would add that it is a step in addition to the many initiatives already being taken in the sector. We see that there are innovative ideas about the sale of tickets, for example the development of registered tickets. At the same time, we note that the problem still exists. I would remind Members once again of the law's evaluation clause. After three years, it may be considered whether additional measures are necessary. Until then, it would be a shame to do nothing, knowing that many people face high prices for wonderful events. Let's make sure that a night out is actually a night out instead of a cat in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I also thank the members of the Senate for their input and, above all, for their involvement in this issue today? Everyone has indicated in their own way that they care that everyone can enjoy our art and culture and our sport. We are actually looking for a way to protect consumers who want to enjoy it. I have already heard several Members say that this applies to events in the field of sport and culture in which the government has an important role and in which there is some scarcity. It feels a little unearned to be standing here, may I say honestly, because the honour is of course first of all to Mrs Gerkens, who has tied the cat to the bell. I only got the proposal thrown into my lap. As a critical lawyer, of course, I took that very seriously before I decided to connect myself to it, but I can tell you that love has come to full maturity. That's mainly because of something the SP and the CDA always find each other in. How can you ensure that people who are in a potentially vulnerable situation are quipped to get their rights? And how can we ensure that people can do that together? How do you strengthen citizens yourself? This does not always have to be done by the government, but what tools can we offer citizens so that they have something in their own hands? Mr Van Dijk has made this very clear. Because what makes people so angry and disappointed, that makes them abhor the way things are in the world? That happens when they're powerless, when they feel they can't do anything about injustice that happens to them. The Minister knows better than anyone that I have been working on a note on internal summits over the last few years. It is precisely because I started working on that note that I have received a great deal of information about the powerlessness of citizens when something has been done to them, especially if it has happened along the digital road, because it is often so elusive. I am not saying that to talk about that note here today, because I should have done you justice by sending it to you, but I am concerned that some aspects of today's debate were raised. Because if people have fallen victim to internal summits, wouldn't criminal law be the appropriate means? Shouldn't everything be arranged over there? But it struck me that it was precisely the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police who indicated that they were not going to do anything about this in principle; perhaps the Minister is the one who could also say something about it. This is not an appropriate problem for the Public Prosecutor and the police in which they will actually act as an ultimatum remedium. It's a citizen thing. If they suffer from each other, civil law is, in the first instance, the place where they should fight it out among themselves. In fact, I've made work visits to the National Intelligence Point Internet scam and I've talked a lot to police and justice. They always put it back with citizens: try to solve it first, try to look for themselves first. In fact, we have 450,000 cases of in-house intelligence, with about 79 cases being picked up by the police. Why? Because people say, "Try to get out of it first," because we can't even start to do everything. In this discussion, therefore, it is very clear that it must be bar and angry before the Public Prosecutor and the police act when people do something to each other for sale and sale, let alone a judge speaks of it. That has become so clear to me in the case of internal summits! Even if something's a criminal offense, it's almost impossible to get your rights to great frustration on the part of people. An entire website has started, scammed with judgment, where it turns out how complicated it is to get something done through criminal law. People will feel very dependent. Mr. Chairman. Several Members of your Chamber have rightly pointed out the brackets that are already there in our fantastic Civil Code. One nice hook has been taken out, the provision on misuse of circumstances. It is fascinating, because the ACM says: "There is no market distortion here at all. In fact, hallelujah! The market works fantastic, because no agreements are made at all!" The ACM is the watchdog of the market, but says it works perfectly here. That is exactly why the ACM did not want to perform. The ACM withdrew from this problem. Your Chamber is right to signal that the ACM must do something. I hope they heard it, because I find it very frustrating that we have been fighting for seven years now, but nothing has happened in the end. Because also the ACM does not take on the responsibility that we believe might be there. This is because there is a debate on whether there is any abuse of circumstances. Well, according to the ACM, it's the use of circumstances, because it's a question of supply and demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u61	What was the basis of the ACM's assessment that there was no abuse of circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u62	They indicate that they are set to protect the market from unauthorized barriers, but they are not noticed because the game of supply and demand apparently works sublimely: people are willing to pay more than €2,000 for a ticket from Adele, fantastic! I know that there are a lot of people who would have liked to go there for the normal amount and who might have wanted to pay 20% more, but are therefore totally powerless to enjoy it. Can I give you my own cri du coeur? My daughter had so much loved going to Shakira, but not for €347 if the ticket should actually cost €69. The discussion about the misuse of circumstances is therefore already somewhat affected by the reasoning of the ACM, which says that the market works sublimely here. So let's see if we can hook up. Something has rightly been said about the chain bond. When I was working in 1988 on the complicated legislative problem of the chains, which makes you really crazy as a student, I never thought I would talk to you about that again in this house. But I'm going to make it very simple. Already on 10 September 1998, a judge delivered a judgment stating that the chain clause protects the very person who was the first seller. It is not intended to protect the consumer at the end. Moreover, the consumer had bought it in this business from someone who put his hands in the air nicely and said: no, it is not from me, I also got it from an intermediary! And the case was gone. So that chain clause doesn't actually work, even though we would like it to work that way. Several Members have asked whether it is not terribly complicated, because nobody goes to court, especially people with a small scholarship. That was rightly stated today. I have to tell you that there are a lot of provisions in our Code of Conduct, especially in our Civil Code, where you think that we might be able to delete them, because we know that a lot of people don't go to court because it's so complicated. So I always think this is a bit of a killer. Shouldn't we make a provision to protect people because the odds aren't so great that they'll use it, because it's so complicated to go to court? Perhaps it is precisely our responsibility as politicians that you will undoubtedly be talking about, because that is what the government agreement that has come out today is about to make it easier to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u63	The question of whether people are going to do this is, of course, getting to the point of choosing the right path here. Is this the right approach? Is the route of civil law the right route to solve the underlying problem? I think it is a killer to point out that there is perhaps more in the code that is not used very much in practice. I expect a little more from Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u64	I get that. You're right! But that is precisely why I indicated that criminal law, which would be a more appropriate means, does not work in the field of internal affairs, when cases are brought to justice or brought to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Moreover, the Lower House has also indicated that it does not want to go that way. That road was closed for us, because it does not work in practice and because the House of Representatives does not want it. So if I had chosen the path of criminal law, I wouldn't have ended up with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u65	Yeah, I hear a lot of criminal justice coming by. Looking at the international scene, I think there are possibilities. I am thinking, for example, of football cards in England. But I hear so little about administrative law. I am thinking of the example in Belgium: a covenant on which the government then supervises. I do hear very little about the possibilities offered by administrative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u66	There are many different possibilities, but in the last seven years we have seen that they are not being developed. When we have the ACM as market master, what our form of intermediary is, and we see that it doesn't work in practice, what responsibility do we lay down to ourselves as a Lower House to see what can be done? So for us, the road to criminal law was just impossible and administrative law and ACM were complicated; I said it. A number of brackets in the Civil Code are not satisfactorily exploited. So yes, then we have only one responsibility to see if we can solve the problem in another way. That is precisely why we put this solution to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u67	I heard Mr Beuving's comment that the Code of Criminal Law might be a solution. I would like to remind you, and I would also like to ask the authors, that in the year 2000, a legislative proposal was tabled by Mr Atsma, our colleague in this Chamber. That was aimed at criminalising black trade in football cards. This has been discussed in the House of Representatives. This bill was then dissuaded by the government and was rejected. So an attempt has been made in this area, but nothing has been achieved. Maybe you can respond to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mr. Van Rij, immediately after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u69	I do indeed have a supplementary question, which is particularly concerned with administrative alternatives, also in the light of the major changes in the market. Mrs. Prast pointed that out. She also referred to a contribution by Ariel Ezrachy of the Oxford Law Faculty. He has actually said in so many words that by applying the algorithms, parties using the computer a second after the tickets are on the market, they are already buying them up, that is a very unwanted market distortion and that you really need to go to new legal methods and instruments. Shouldn't you be able to find them in administrative law by extending existing powers for the ACM? Because I get the impression that Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Dijk specifically indicate why the ACM is not doing what it might have to do. But can you not turn that question around and say: should it not be given more powers, even in the light of technological developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u70	I would like to thank you for giving the example that criminal law was not the way because we tried to do so. That proposal indeed came from someone who is now a member of this Chamber. I didn't think it was a choice to call it that, and I'm glad Mr Ruers did, because otherwise I would be hiding behind the First Chamber members and I didn't think I would do that for me. So thank you for that. About the ACM: we are not against administrative enforcement. What we have come across is that there are several possibilities: criminal law, administrative law and civil law now. But it doesn't work. Then we find it our responsibility to set something in motion that could give consumers something that could work. We have taken responsibility for this, and that is the proposal now before us, because the other doors have remained closed to us. Of course the ACM can play a bigger role in this, fine. But I also think it is important to give people something in their own hands; that is also what we learned during the whole debate on internal summits. We have the doctrine of collective action. We know there are all kinds of initiatives. We feel supported by the KNVB. If that could be the way, then we'll put these things next to each other. Then in three years, let's see what works best. For me, it's not or-or. It can also be sublime and-and. But I think it is important that we give consumers something to say: up to here and no further. We believe that the market has been disrupted, even though the ACM says that it is not. I have been speaking for a while on the occasion of the Labour Party's appeal to deal with the problems that people will experience when they go to court. That is precisely why all kinds of initiatives have been developed and even the coalition agreement is now, and not for nothing, in order to see if we can make sure that people have access to justice in many more innovative and more accessible ways. I very much hope that innovations will also come throughout consumer law so that people can go to court more easily and more quickly, to such a dispute-maker, I should say. That's often where the pain is. Then we can say: we are not going to give consumers anything because we know that it is complicated to go to court. We think it is more our responsibility to ensure that the threshold is lowered. In my view, the coalition agreement that has now been submitted offers important tools for this purpose. We talked about "obviously unreasonable." There are a lot of places in our law where a set of standards has come up with some room for questioning: how do we look at it together? That is also what today's discussion is important for. You can also see that it is precisely in the industry itself that an acceptable border is being looked at. So that's where you see initiatives to use 20% as a maximum. This has, of course, been an interaction, in which it is said that this is considered reasonable in the light of the costs and attractiveness that are incurred, but then cut it off there and do not allow it to rise further to thousands of euros. Mr. Chairman. So I think it is important to address those points in particular. That's what I've been trying to do with the Chamber. I would like to go further in the second period on the Disputes Committee. The essence of this is that parties can register. In the end, they can agree with each other on the code of conduct, which provides a structure for people to buy their tickets at such a company. But it is precisely what Mr Van Dijk said: that still offers the space to others to do it. It is precisely the other thing that we want to tackle in this way. We can therefore endorse this. A code of conduct is then endorsed. That is something that must be respected. There is a complete explanation of what is expected. That is not therefore an abuse of circumstances or increased prices without a limit. Just then you are an attractive, alternative offer and people can end up there. This could be supported if there were legislation that would take the other way or at least complicate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u71	If I hear correctly, Mrs Van Toorenburg was at the end of her speech. I have not heard her or the other initiator answer my two very specific questions. I'll repeat them. Does the law apply to all types of admission tickets, so besides performances and competitions, does it also apply to exhibitions? And the second: is it true that the bill does not distinguish between subsidised and non-subsidised events and, if so, an explanation of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u72	The answer to the second question is: no, no distinction is made. That is also because we know that there are many places where the artist may be purely commercial, comes from the market and is not subsidised but where the stage offered and used is subsidised and where everything is made possible. In fact, in all places in the Netherlands, you can somehow see government interference or government support to make it possible for people to enjoy art, culture and sport. In sport it is even clearer but also in cultural events you see the involvement of the government from the general interest that we have such a warm heart for art and culture in the Netherlands. On the other point, Mr Van Dijk did say something. Maybe he can go into that in the second term, because he has put a hook in it, but I think he would like to explain it a little more in a moment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u74	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the two authors and, of course, Mrs Gerkens, because the right of initiative is one of the most beautiful instruments available to the House of Representatives. But at the same time one of the most labour-intensive. Many compliments for that energy; there is a nodding in agreement. The role of the Minister in an initiative law is to act as an advisor. So I'm gonna highlight some jumping points. The aim of the law is to curb the professional resale of tickets by limiting the selling price and thereby protecting the consumer. A number of questions arise. It is not clear how big the problem is and this raises the fundamental question, which also asked a number of Members of Parliament, whether it is a task for the government or for the provider himself. For example, the provider himself can achieve the same goal as the law by registering tickets. Then the government wouldn't have to take over that job. A second question that arises is to what extent the bill can offer effective consumer protection, since providers from abroad may be brought to justice by a Dutch consumer, but enforcement of the judgment and compensation of overpaid then become particularly difficult. So, considering everything, you can ask the question whether in practice the consumer will get a lot out of it. One specific question has been put to me by Mr Van Rij. He asked whether the ACM should be given a role in enforcement. That was just discussed in an interruption. That was in the original bill. An execution test was then carried out, which showed that the ACM could also run against the fact that trade would settle abroad and there the ACM has no powers. It was also discussed in that execution test that, even if the ACM did intervene, the individual consumer would not yet obtain compensation, so that he would still have to go to court. This was then the reason for the initiators to remove the role of the ACM by means of a letter of amendment. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u75	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u76	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate both initiators for the clear presentation and answer of the questions. All the questions asked on behalf of the CDA Group have been answered. I would also like to thank the Minister for the advice he has given and the answer to the question we have put. For the second term, I do have a great dilemma. And that is the point of how big this problem is. The problem is not denied by the CDA Group in the First Chamber. But what has been given so far is with all due respect.I try to formulate it as carefully as possible. still somewhat anecdotal in nature. I find that very annoying, because it has been said here by Mr Van Dijk that the House of Representatives may have a right of initiative, but therefore they do not have a budget to do the necessary research to identify, in this case, how big that market is, who the parties are, how price formation takes place. That has something very frustrating, I must say. This means, in essence, that in our constitutional relations it is the case that if you do not have that budget, you are dependent on the government, but that is what you must want. Well, that's a hell of a dilemma, isn't it? I also agree with Mrs Prast that I have said in an interruption that it is about developments in the consumer market and the need to look at it in some other legal way. However, I have not really received an answer, if I may put it that way, and I understand that you cannot give that answer to a very fundamental question, and that is: what exactly is the nature of this market operation in the Netherlands? In the United Kingdom, however, they did do that research. Well, that's one. I'm afraid you're not gonna solve that in second term. The Minister, by the way, says in his advice in slightly different terms, but in fact the same. Yeah, and that's exactly what we're in this house, in the First Chamber, to see what exactly the need and the point are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u77	You cite that example of the United Kingdom. That's where research was done. I'm curious as to what came out of it and what they learned from it. Maybe that'll help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u78	Well, that has led, among other things, to the introduction of a number of additional legal powers, as this has been recommended by the professor concerned, including in the area of administrative law. That is, if I may, exactly the bridge to my second point for the second term, the essence. Are we on the right track with this civil-law solution? As far as I am concerned, Mrs Van Toorenburg has made it very clear that the road to criminal law is not going to work. I think that is quite clearly stated with arguments. That leaves administrative law. The Minister explained why, at an earlier stage of parliamentary examination, reference was made to the implementation test by the ACM at the time: we cannot maintain it there. Yeah, that was over seven and a half years ago anyway. In the meantime, that market has moved on. To be honest, I would like to ask the question, for the second time, whether it is not much more sensible for us to take a step back: to get a clear picture of the problem with the good budget, which is one thing, and two: to examine all the legal possibilities, where this can be one, before you adopt a law that could be a cat in the bag. In three years' time, if we are going to evaluate this law here, citizens will be even more disappointed. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to leave it at that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I assume for a moment that my question on scope is still being answered. So I'm gonna leave it there now. I have heard two kinds of objections to the law this afternoon. There are colleagues who see the problem and embrace the purpose of the law and there are colleagues who do not see the problem. Those who embrace the purpose of the law, but also those who do not see the problem as such, have the argument that access to justice for consumers is so difficult in civil matters that none of it ends up and that there is no point in increasing the possibility of success. Mr. Chairman. If this reasoning were correct, we would have a very big problem in the Netherlands and not just with this law. Of course, there are thresholds and it is difficult, but at least this legislative proposal increases the opportunity. Furthermore, it is important that far from all consumers have to go to court to ensure that the law is effective. Even if one consumer can win, it has a preventive effect. That means that vendors comply with the law. Some of the spokesmen are wondering whether we should do more. It is not a multi-choice test between different legislative proposals here today. This is the bill. It's been there since April 2010, when the House of Representatives took over. Then there's the market argument. A market in the economic sense is free exchange between a large number of seekers and suppliers who do not have any market power. That condition is not satisfied given the concentration and use of bots. As far as I am concerned, the latter may be an opportunity to examine the role and legal role of the ACM, but that is independent of this legislative proposal, because it has a broader impact. It doesn't just affect the resale of tickets. That is why my group considers intervention by the legislator to be justified in this market and in this form proportionate. I will therefore advise my group to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I give the floor to Mrs Beuving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the initiators for their comprehensive answers to our questions and for the many examples with which they have illustrated the underlying problem. This problem deserves a solution, but unfortunately this legislative proposal does not provide this solution. At least it doesn't offer a solution for people with a small scholarship. Those people are not going to buy far too expensive tickets because they can recover part of the paid amount from the civil court as wrongly paid, so is our estimate. In particular, the initiators hope for the preventive effect of this bill in the sense that secondary sellers will themselves adjust their prices to the law because of the uncertainty caused by this bill. The PvdA Group is of the opinion that the preventive effect so desired by the initiators, of which it is very doubtful whether it will act, is not sufficient to bear this bill. As members of this Chamber, we have the task of reviewing legislative proposals, inter alia, on feasibility and enforcement. I cannot advise my group to vote in favour of a legislative proposal whose feasibility and enforcement are so difficult. I will therefore advise my group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mrs Beuving. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u84	Madam President. I would like to thank the authors, the initiators and the Minister for their contributions and for the many questions that have been asked here. Looking at the whole thing, it occurred to me that we are actually dealing with an ICT problem again. One of the proposers already said how big the ICT problem is and how difficult it is, for example, for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, that's what this is all about. The problem really started to play when ICT developed and when it offered all the opportunities that the market has now found. That problem hasn't been solved. Secondly, we are dealing with a consumer problem. This is, of course, mainly a consumer problem for people with smaller wallets, because it is about price formation. People with large scholarships can handle high prices more easily than people with a small scholarship. That brings me to the second point that actually triggers me in this case. The previous speaker, my colleague from the PvdA, made a very different comment. She said: it is not enforceable, because an ordinary citizen does not go to court for a small sum. Then I think: it is very bad to note that the rule of law in the Netherlands is so bad that the ordinary citizen can't go to court with a small wallet! Then what do we have a rule of law for? I know that there are very few court cases proposed. The facts have just come back to light in an investigation. About 95% of all disputes in the Netherlands never come to court. So only 5% comes to the judge. The other 95% disappears somewhere in the black hole. People don't know. At least those disputes don't come to court. One of the reasons why there are so few cases before the courts is that there are so many actual thresholds, legal, financial and knowledge barriers. But that means that a very large part of the population remains empty-handed in this area too. Those people think they have a problem or even worse, they have a problem, but nobody helps them. And if we come up with a proposal, the authors will come up with it, but I call myself because I support this proposal, then the spokesperson of the PvdA Group says: yes, but that means that there is a problem, so we can't deal with it; we won't do that. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u85	I think Mr Ruers is missing the point on which I based it. The next step, the next obstacle, is that the citizen with a small grant is likely to make a very difficult step to the civil courts. That is why I say that you would need a different form of enforcement, that of government. The first obstacle that I noticed and which I referred to just now in my second term is that I have to be able to pay for a far too expensive ticket at all. So I think that the argument that is being put forward here is wonderful, but I do not think that my story of just now is the right reason for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u86	The high price of that ticket is also a problem. As Mrs Prast said, ticket prices can be pushed up very much, so that people who have too small a scholarship do not even buy a ticket. Those people would like to buy that ticket. They want to see that show, that concert or that sporting event, but they can't afford it. So that way there's already a barrier for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u87	Then what good is this law if they don't get a ticket at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u88	If this law is passed, there are other people, such as the 1,461 people with a KNVB card, who can take action. If this case is brought before the court and these people see that there is an opportunity to get the judge to deal with these intermediaries on the basis of the new law, then they can also see that it can help. The one buyer who goes to court will help all the others, because the prices will go down and those buyers will at some point take value for their money or demand decent, reasonable amounts. So it's all touching. I find it very sad not to look at the small citizen who can't get through. The consumer with the small wallet is helped by this in a simple way. Of course, there are good ways of thinking about administrative law or criminal law, but there are simply no such things. It has already been said: the ACM has been examined early and has dropped out. The criminal justice system is also out of play. There's nothing left but: either we do this bill or we leave people in the cold. We shouldn't do the latter. The final point is the KNVB issue. I said something about that in my first term. We will take that on board. We will also organize this collectively so that the small man or woman concerned can deal with it. We will approach the KNVB on this, because I believe that the KNVB has a role to play in this. If they make that decision, they're gonna have to stand up for the duped Orange fans, too. That's what we're gonna do. We'll report on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Madam President. My group also thanks the initiators for their detailed answers to the questions and the list of examples which Mr Van Dijk has listed. It was impressive in itself, even though there was no proper investigation on the basis of it. Of course, thanks also to the Minister for his advice on this bill. Mr Van Dijk's list of examples contained examples of initiatives already taken by market players. He mentioned the example of TicketSwap. Tickets must not be resold for more than 20%. He mentioned the Disputes Committee. A code of conduct therefore appears to be the basis for this. In addition, I can imagine that it has been mentioned several times this afternoon, and that there is a lot of internet technology, ICT used in buying up and reselling access cards. Is it not conceivable that we should ask companies to invest a little more in anti-botnet technology, for example? Should no more be done to raise awareness, both among consumers and businesses, so that they take action themselves? Why should we not wait for the effects of such initiatives before we come up with legal instruments? Madam President, you will not be surprised that my group is not convinced of the need for legislation, let alone private law. My group sees much more in stimulating market initiatives. Let me mention one last example of such initiatives. We know the hallmark of Thuiswinkel. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about the National Information Point Internet Scam. The Thuiswinkel label is such a quality mark. If a provider of any product or service has such a quality mark, you know: in case of any complaints or disputes there is an authority where I can go. My group sees much more in such measures and initiatives. In the first term, I have already mentioned that the process to court is at least difficult, not only for consumers with a small stock exchange but for all consumers. The threshold is high, wherever that comes from. For this reason, too, my group prefers other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u91	Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u92	I'm holding my breath because I wanted to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u93	I have spoken in my speech about what I would like to call consumer welfare and damage to producer welfare, i.e. the well-being of artists. I suddenly realize that I have not heard Mrs Duthler speak at all about the entrepreneurs, the artists. Actually, I'd expect someone from her party to do that. I mentioned that the producers not only get well-being from the price they receive, but also from the atmosphere of the performance and because they make fans happy and so on. Perhaps Mrs Duthler was already planning to say something about it, but I would like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u94	When I talk about market initiatives, I don't just mean the offices and agencies that resell the tickets. Of course, I am also talking about the providers of the services themselves. They're included. They too could join forces and take initiatives themselves. Madam President, I will conclude. I will continue to advise my group not to vote in favour of this bill, especially because of the objections in terms of the instruments themselves, the access to justice and the availability of other instruments, which my group would like to see first tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. Mr Dercksen has briefly asked for the floor in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u96	Mr President, thank you on behalf of the PVV Group. Thank you for the initiatives and all the efforts that have been made to defend this proposal here for about six or seven years after that. My group shares many of the concerns expressed here. Is this an efficient way of protecting the consumer? And what about feasibility and enforcement? But above all, we also recognise the problem. That problem is, in our view, the automated purchase of cards. And do you have to saddle companies or organizers with solving the problem, while there are parties that are deliberately disrupting the market, like those automated systems do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u97	Those companies should do that anyway, because of course it is not just about investing in technology to counter this type of practice. Antibot technology, for example, is needed to protect your information security in general. You already have that obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u98	Yes, but there is also an obligation on the government to ensure that the market functions properly. And it doesn't do that at the moment, because there are just companies that, by pressing a button, are confusing ticket sales and not giving consumers the opportunity to buy those tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u99	I have a question about that right away. You say the government doesn't, but this bill doesn't give power to the government. This draft law gives the power to act through private law to seller and buyer, and in this case to buyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u100	Yes, but we are giving consumers the opportunity to do something about this by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u101	You just said it's supposed to come from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u102	We must give them the tools to defend themselves against these steps. I think there is one more question that Mr Beuving asked. What happens if you sell a ticket with a €300 cap? Aren't there some variants to think of? For example, you automatically subscribe to Mojo's newsletter for €300. I'm still worried about that. I would like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u103	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I ask the initiators if they are able to answer directly. That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, also to Members for their second term contribution. Mrs Van Toorenburg will address the question about the scope of the Disputes Committee. Mrs Prast rightly asked whether the law applies to all events and exhibitions. The answer is yes, it is about cultural and sporting events. The minister said he did feel for the solution of cards by name. I can imagine a lot of that. That would indeed be a very good solution. It's done here and there. But I would remind the Minister and colleagues that this could lead to bureaucracy. Imagine an event with 40,000 or 50,000 visitors. Then that's gonna be quite a check at the door. That is also why large organisations in particular refrain from holding cards in their names. In the future it may all become much more modern and faster, but at the moment we are not there yet. Mr Van Rij insists on the scale of the problem and regrets that there was a lack of budget in the House of Representatives. I fully agree with him. Of course, the Lower House and the Upper House must have sufficient resources to carry out research. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment and we are facing the treatment today. Then Mr Van Rij asks: should we not take a step back, explore all the possibilities and see what is most sensible? I would regret that; you will understand that. I would be very sorry if today, seven years after the adoption of this law in the House of Representatives, we decided to put the law completely aside. We're not standing here for nothing. With this law, we would like to take a step towards dealing with the resale of tickets at high prices. I can only fully endorse Mrs Prast's speech. The law gives the consumer a chance and the law is proportional. I fully agree with that. Mrs Beuving does not want to support the law for the time being, because she is not convinced that people with a small wallet are going to buy expensive tickets. I would like to say the following to Mrs Beuving. This is at the heart of our law; it is at the heart of our approach to these expensive tickets. I'd love it if we could shake hands instead of you taking your distance from me. We want to address precisely the problem of those tickets of €500 or more. The examples have been mentioned. I have mentioned to you various possibilities that this law gives to begin to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u105	Above all, I have heard many times today that a public-law approach, which would be much more appropriate, is unfortunately not possible or politically feasible. In fact, for me this sounds like a licence of inability, which I certainly do not want to address to the initiators. I also say to Mrs Prast that it is not a multi-choice issue. It is not a multi-choice test, with a, b or c as alternatives between which we can choose. But it cannot be swallowed or suffocated either: better variants, which could actually provide a real solution to this problem, with government enforcement, are not politically feasible and so we must accept the inappropriate solution in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u106	But the result of Mrs Beuving's reasoning is that we have nothing at all. Mr Ruers was quite right to say that. Today we have the choice: do we give the consumer an instrument, or do we leave the consumer in the cold, as has been the case in recent years? We have waited seven years for the sector and for initiatives, I also say to Mrs Duthler. 'Cause they were all gonna do it. There was supposed to be a code and an active dispute committee. We see that the problem has not got any smaller; we see that the problem has got bigger. I get numerous messages from people who say: "I would have liked to go to this concert, I would have liked to go to this concert with my children. But I'm not gonna pay those amounts, and the original tickets, the primary sale, are nowhere to be seen. I don't have that money." It is precisely with this law that we want to increase access for people with a small grant. We want to ensure the broad accessibility of cultural and sporting events. We are taking a step here and the Labour Party has the opportunity to contribute to this. If the party does not support the proposal, then I would very much regret it and quite frankly do not understand it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u107	I'm gonna grab that glove anyway. If the Labour Party does not support this bill, it is because the Labour Party believes that this bill is not the solution to the problem. That's the issue. We are not going to burden the country and the population with a legislative proposal which, at the outset, we believe is not a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u108	That debate has been held extensively in the House of Representatives. Mrs Vos, a member of Mrs Beuving's party, asked exactly the same questions at the time. The original applicants met her with the Disputes Commission. Mrs Van Toorenburg will come back to that later. On this basis, the Labour Party said at the time that it could support the bill. Of course, you'll make your own assessment. I am fully aware of that. But once again, I would like to make the following point: now we have nothing, with this law we have something. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Duthler gave a number of examples. I named TicketSwap myself. That is indeed a very good initiative. Mrs Duthler also referred to the Committee on Disputes and more innovation. She said, if I may summarize her speech in those words, now stimulate the market and ideas. Self-regulation was actually the bottomline of her argument. I would like to say to Mrs Duthler that was also our wish and our hope. We haven't waited for years for nothing. We must note that the problem is nowhere near out of the world. TicketSwap is here. I very much encourage that; let that be clear. But there are countless other websites, such as Seatwave and viagogo, on which tickets for exorbitant amounts are offered. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u109	My group wonders what has been done, what actions have been taken to encourage these initiatives. You indicate that little has happened. But has anything been done, for example, by the government, to encourage initiatives? For example, have awareness campaigns been carried out? Are there any inter-branch organisations that have promoted initiatives? Perhaps there is also a way for other inter-branch organisations to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u110	I would draw Mrs Duthler's attention to the treatment in the House of Representatives. In doing so, it has been extended to initiatives from the sector, such as the industry code, name cards and websites. I would like to draw Mrs Duthler's attention to the 'Know Where You Buy' initiative, which came from the industry. This is an information website that raises consumer awareness of high prices and puts emphasis on primary sellers. Nevertheless, we have to note that the problem is far from over. So my conclusion is that self-regulation has at least not worked sufficiently. This law would be an important step towards reducing high prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I started embracing and discussing this proposal, I also had conversations with companies like MOJO. At first they stood very fanatically beside us and said: we are going to change everything, we are going to draw up codes of conduct and set up dispute committees. I remember saying to them at some point: you just feel our hot breath in your neck, and now you stand up. And that's acknowledged. A dispute committee was then set up and codes of conduct were drawn up. But as long as we do not put legal instruments next to it, it is not mandatory and undoubtedly sinks like a plum pudding. In fact, in the meantime, instead of being on our side, these companies have set up their own earning model, which earns a fortune. So I don't think it's weird that even Marketplace I don't know if everyone has reached a fire note with the message: don't do this. Why not? Because they bring in a huge amount of money with commercials running right in those places where we can buy the tickets. It's become a earning model. If we do not stop it, it will only get worse and eventually people will not be able to go to the events that we attach to each other. That does not mean that I do not understand the objections that have been raised today. I get that. They're justified, too. We don't solve the world; that's right. There's always gonna be a snake road where someone's slipping away. But let us take responsibility for cutting it off every time. They asked what the Disputes Committee is doing. I'd come back to that. He may at first warn. After that, she can formally warn. She'll be able to deploy royalty. It can eventually force companies to take action towards the consumer. It's all things that lit up for a while when we said, "And now we're tired of you." I am genuinely afraid that if we say later that we are not giving this product to the consumer, they will have a field day, that the sky will be the limit again and that they will be able to fill their pockets. I'd deeply regret that. That makes me appeal to you once again, and I do not know how things will be any different in this Chamber; it is the first time I have been behind this table to see if we can give this to consumers. It's not or-or. Let us work together to ensure that it becomes and-and in the interests of those vulnerable consumers who want to enjoy what we make possible with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u113	After Mrs Van Toorenburg's passionate speech, I actually have one question and one comment. The question is as follows. You mentioned Marketplace, but isn't that just a platform that this law doesn't provide for, because the seller and buyer close the transaction there themselves and they don't act as an intermediary, exercising a profession or business? With the second point, I have deliberately waited until the second deadline. At the end of my speech in plenary, I indicated that the CDA Group had serious doubts. I will take the answers you have given back to the group. I can tell you that at least I still have these doubts, particularly with regard to the size and the instruments. I thought it was so nice to report that at the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u114	We would not like to address Marketplace ourselves, but I found it significant that they say: beware. The other side is kind of interesting. Of course, there are people who have a ticket and can't go eventually, because someone is sick or because something else is going on. Then they want to resell their ticket. Maybe they'll pay an amount on top of that, because they think I've done my best to get a ticket, so someone else can do the same. That's all fine. But also at Marktplaats more and more professional companies join. That's what we heard Marketplace say. Nowadays, the average Dutchman who offers a ticket is almost no longer the first person to come across. On the first two pages of hits are all companies that do so. Let's just cut off these companies. That is why I mentioned Marketplace, as a place in which the commercial world has now found its way. I very much appreciate the honesty shown here to indicate how the CDA Group in the First Chamber is looking at this bill. During the past period I have often spoken culture as a spokesperson, I can say that in this Chamber I had talks with all those companies, stages, event organisations and artists. What has moved me so much is that they all tell me that it is a very big problem. I've just put my ear to listen to the field, which has shown me how it's wrestling with this. In all honesty, I don't need a study report for that. I've put my ear to listen and I haven't heard anything else. I don't see anything else. You really don't think that Kassa and Argos, out of boredom, make programs about this? They do that because it's a problem in our society. That is what they have addressed and that is why we have submitted solutions to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u115	I would like to make one more comment on something you mentioned a few lines earlier. I would have liked to have mentioned that more clearly from you, and you very passionately referred to the terms "earning models" and "pocket fillers." Then I thought: yes, but wait a minute, there are a lot of bona fide companies, lots of secondary ticket shops that I wouldn't want to put those terms and labels on? What's wrong with earning models? These bona fide ticket shops are also based on earning models. The economy is about earning models.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u116	That is why we have so strongly praised the initiatives that have been developed to simply ask for 20% more. Those are just initiatives that are commonplace. But what are the earning models? These have become clear both from English research and from American research: a billion-dollar business has arisen purely in secondary ticket sales. All the examples we have mentioned today are illustrative of that. They have shown that they do not put two tens on it for a ticket of one hundred euros, but that they go far over the top. That's what I meant by earning models.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u117	I had the impression that Mrs Van Toorenburg had come to the end of the second term on behalf of the initiators. Mr Dercksen was so alert and attentive to remind me to draw attention to an unanswered question from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u118	You're absolutely right. I had already finished it, the question of the PVV and the Labour Party about the T-shirts, the so-called tying or package deals. I hope I can reassure you. It is not allowed to hide the price of a ticket in such a package deal. Both cases must be listed separately, as well as the service costs, so that they can be distinguished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u119	But that wasn't the issue. The ducking was in the next one. They both need to be listed separately. Then the ticket is neatly reported an acceptable price, i.e. around the original price as stated on the ticket, within the 20% increase. For the rest of the package, however, in my example: T-shirt and PET is suddenly called an exorbitant amount. Then they slipped out of the bill, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u120	Yes, then it is clear to the consumer that this is an unjustified practice. That way it can be distinguished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u121	I know that problem. I read that, too. You make a cut between the ticket and the rest. I believe that the remainder is covered by the Unfair Commercial Practices Act. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u122	That's right. You can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u123	Are you ready, Mr. Van Dijk? Mrs. Van Toorenburg? Oh, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u124	We can agree that selling a T-shirt for €300 is unfair, but I am seriously wondering: are we talking about what someone pays for a T-shirt? If you go to a very expensive street in Amsterdam, maybe they also have one here in The Hague, you might pay €300 for a T-shirt. People do that of their own free will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u125	Yes. Exactly. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u126	I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u127	I didn't hear any questions from me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u128	I'll give you an opportunity to say something if that's necessary. The answer is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-6.u129	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see that Mrs Duthler wishes that. Then I propose to vote on the bill on Tuesday 24 October. Before I close the sitting, I would like to wish the Minister of Security and Justice, who is most likely the last person we have seen here today as a member of the present outgoing cabinet, a good future in any position.
