ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the foreign affairs budget. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The 2018 budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs leaves little financial margin for the fresh Minister to use for new policies. Therefore, we hardly see any new policy. The cabinet is new, but foreign policy remains largely Koenders' policy for the time being. Really profound changes are hardly perceptible. Whether it is about relations with Turkey, the fight against terror, anti-Semitism at the United Nations, the Islamisation of our western society or how to deal with the consequences of the forthcoming African population explosion, there is work to be done, especially for the opposition. The PVV will promote a foreign policy that stands up for the Netherlands, the Netherlands and our business community. Above all, policies must be taken against the greatest danger that threatens our Western society and also our beautiful Netherlands. That's what's missing right now. There is nothing in the documents, not in the budget and not in the coalition agreement. The biggest problem that we've been tucked away in a few decades in the hope that it will blow over or fall apart. I am, of course, talking about Islamization; Islamization of our open and free society, Islamisation of the Netherlands. From now until 2030, Islam's supporters are expected to rise from 1.7 billion to 3 billion. The world population is rising by 32%, but the number of supporters of Islam is rising by 70%. These are gloomy prospects because Islam brings with it freedom and violence. It is not for nothing that we see a lot of conflicts in Islamic countries and also where Islam is emerging in other societies, see the bloody terrorist attacks that have already hit so many innocent citizens in Europe. And more victims will fall. With the open border policy, the Netherlands is calling off the problems. Immigrants from Islamic countries bring the problems and conflicts from there with them here. Whoever brings in Islam will reap jihadism. Sooner or later, you're screwed. The Netherlands should not bring in immigrants anymore. That should be the top priority of our new cabinet. But there is more we can do, including in foreign policy. We need to be able to identify the cause of all this misery. What the PVV has been doing in the Lower House since 2006, the cabinet has to do on the international stage. Because only if you know and acknowledge the cause can you solve a problem. The Netherlands must seize the year 2018 to name Islam as the cause of all jihadist terror in the UN Security Council. Make known and discussable the source of the miserable. My request to the Minister is therefore to use our membership of the Security Council precisely for this purpose and to ensure that the Security Council makes a statement on this matter. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stay with the Security Council for a while. The seat that the Netherlands is going to hold on that council must, of course, give our country something. Unfortunately, in this respect, the agenda with the Dutch commitment for the period we will be in the Security Council offers nothing concrete. For example, the government wants to use our seat in the Security Council to deal with conflicts and wars. The Netherlands will draw attention, I read, to prevention and tackling the root causes of conflicts. There is simply a great deal of doubt about the possibility of preventing conflicts and tackling the root causes. Then who's gonna put money in there? If you want conflict prevention, as the government writes in the letter, it will cost a lot of money, a lot of money. Does the Minister really think that countries are prepared to make sufficient funds available for conflict prevention? How much money does the Minister want to make available for this? Can the Minister tell us what the return on investment will be for the Netherlands? I'm curious. There is one issue on the agenda for the Security Council that we should at least take seriously, a subject where the Netherlands should and perhaps could actually achieve results. That subject is MH17. For more than three years, we've been waiting for clarification. Not about the circumstances of the crash, because it is now clear, but about the perpetrators and their trial. Who are responsible and how are they going to pay for it? The PVV would like to know from the minister how the Netherlands will gain and maintain support in the international community for a criminal trial against the perpetrators. Amazingly, the Dutch commitment to MH17 in the agenda for the Dutch commitment to the Security Council is limited to two sentences. Not anymore. Two sentences, referring only to Resolution 2166, which obliges all countries to cooperate in the MH17 investigation. It has been clear for a long time and to a sufficient extent that Russia, although obliged to do so, does not cooperate sufficiently with that resolution. We can now draw that conclusion. But what will the government do with that in the Security Council? The coalition agreement states that the Netherlands will take diplomatic action against countries that do not fully cooperate in the detection and trial of suspects of taking down flight MH17. But what does that mean? How is the Minister going to implement that promise from the coalition agreement? Are we going to see this diplomatic action in the Security Council? The PVV would like to clarify this. There is a passage in the coalition agreement asking for a further statement by the Minister. It specifically states that the Netherlands will commit itself to the Security Council for the trial of IS fighters. But how will the Netherlands do that? That hasn't been explained anywhere. So what does the Minister intend to do in the Security Council on this point? I would also like a comment on that. In any case, the PVV already has a clear opinion on this: remove the IS fighters from Dutch nationality and never let them come back. I would like to refer to an Islam expert who recently advised: close the borders; take away their passports; they are not ordinary criminals but people with four years of experience in Raqqa, who are far more dangerous than the amateurs who have committed attacks here over the last three years. Which brings me to the secret deal that makes it possible for hundreds of those sadists to get a free pass from Raqqa. Who did Islamic State actually close that deal with? Why did the coalition also deviate from the agreement that IS fighters should be killed or captured? Those hundreds of sadists may have vanished from Raqqa, but they didn't evaporate. We could run into them anywhere right now. There are already reports from smugglers at the border with Turkey that they have brought such families across the border. So Turkey's in, huh? The PVV does not want to see those unscrupulous murderers and sadists and their supporters back in the Netherlands. They belong in prisons in Syria and Iraq. Local shelter is also the motto here. Can the Minister guarantee, I ask him, that the jihadists of Dutch nationality will not be extradited to the Netherlands, but that they will be paid in Iraq or Syria? What agreements have been or are being made with these two countries, Iraq and Syria? The Netherlands is calling for a reform of the Security Council. The reason for this is that the cabinet says it has concerns about the legitimacy of the UN. A partial solution is then advocated for a different composition. But isn't a debate about legitimacy the same as a discussion about credibility? How credible does the Minister find the exorbitant number of anti-Israeli resolutions? The PVV wants a comprehensive response to this. Why does the government not want to discuss this anti-Semitic atmosphere in the UN critically in the Security Council? How will the government implement the motion by Van der Staaij, Baudet and Wilders to take an active position in the UN against disproportionate attitudes against Israel? At the various UN institutions, it is from the same sheet a suit. The Netherlands is allowed to make a clear statement once, I think. The appointment of a Jewish lady as director of UNESCO is really not going to help to stop resolution anti-Semiticism there. That is why I would like the Netherlands to follow the example of Israel and the United States and withdraw from the UN organisation UNESCO and stop funding it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I come to the North Atlantic security policy, so I come to NATO. I invite the Minister to update us on his meeting with the Secretary-General of NATO yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to talk about something else. There is a Russian military doctrine that is central to the Russian defence force. That doctrine is called "maskirovka," which stands for "misdirection" or "wronging the enemy." The aim is to achieve uncertainty, confusion and indecision on the part of the opponent. Maskirovka is ancient, but modern technologies work as a kind of force multiplier. This creates uncertainty and the possibility of plausible denial of Russian involvement in operations. The decision-making process of the opponent is therefore constantly lagging behind. Does the Minister agree with me that a quick response from NATO is still lacking? Will the Minister make sure that a quick-response mechanism will be developed? In this connection, I have the following four questions. 1. Can NATO apply maskirovka in the same way as the Russians do? 2. If so, will the possibilities be developed? 3. If not, are there any reasons under international law why NATO should not be able to do so? 4. If necessary, what reasons are those? I come to the International Affairs Advisory Council, which issued a report with a lot of criticism of NATO last month. That report contains a large part of old cookies. We have known for a number of years that the defence efforts of many European countries need to be improved. However, I find it remarkable that the AIV claim that coherence within NATO is fragile. Cohesion is being seriously tested, as I read in the report. I think that's a hell of an exaggeration. Of course, there are differences of opinion between NATO countries from time to time. It is rather weedy that the Baltic States and Poland are more concerned about Russia than Portugal. Nor is it so special that southern European countries look at the other side of the Mediterranean with great care. That's what the PVV does, by the way. But is that the reason to say that cohesion within NATO is in great danger? Some Central European countries are indeed more conservative than others in some areas, but that is more a threat to the unity of the European Union that forces the citizens to do so than to NATO. Finally, it also points to the unpredictability of the political leadership of the United States since President Trump took office. Those kinds of messages also seem to me to be grossly exaggerated. There is nothing to show that the United States no longer takes military assistance for Europe seriously. On the contrary, a large amount of American defence equipment has been transferred to European countries, including the Netherlands. In a country like Romania, you stumble on the Black Sea over the American military. The re-establishment of the Atlantic command and a logistics commando with NATO, both of which are necessary to ensure the continued and rapid supply of American military equipment and personnel in times of need, is proof of the continued American commitment to Europe's security. Mr. Chairman. Monitoring and promoting cohesion within NATO is the task of all the politicians of the participating countries, because NATO is an alliance of sovereign democracies, I repeat: sovereign democracies. We must remain in dialogue with all NATO members and maintain close contact instead of taking some of them as retarded conservatives and then ignoring them. Mr. Chairman. All this does not apply to defence marriage with Turkey. Because that is where the AIV has a point of criticism, and rightly so. The AIV opinion rightly lists clearly the many areas that Erdogan has already done and which run counter to everything that NATO should stand for. President Erdogan once again said: moderate Islam does not exist and is a fiction of the West. But what kind of splashing advice is then given by the AIV? Well, nothing at all! Only hope is expressed that Turkey will, in the long term, resume its path to the rule of law and democracy. Sleep well, I'd like to say. Unlike the AIV, the PVV does have an opinion for the government: stop pumping time, energy and money in Turkey and stop dreaming about a democratic and secular Turkey. Worse still, our alliance is that the dictator of Turkey is not very grateful for the support he has received from NATO allies over the last few years. On the contrary, he's dishonoring us repeatedly. Turkey's acquisition of Russia's air defence system S-400 will also make a huge gap in the defence of the eastern NATO area. Is it the attitude of a reliable ally to strike such a gap by purchasing that air defence system from a potential enemy of NATO or does the Minister not think it is going so fast? If so, what does he derive from that thought? The PVV cannot see Turkey as a reliable ally. Does the Minister think it wise to share NATO's strategic insights and secrets with Turkey? The PVV doesn't think so. What is also beyond comprehension is that we are still financing Turkey. Suitcases with Dutch taxpayers' money still find their way to Turkey via Brussels. The fact that Brussels does not want to end Turkey's accession aid immediately and completely should no longer be accepted by the Netherlands. Giving money to a caliphate in the making is criminal. Giving money to an authoritarian country that is world champion in locking up journalists for their opinion and many others for that same reason, is never, but never to be right. Then why are we going through with that? I'd like a response from the Minister. The PVV believes that the Netherlands should now act on its own rather than settle for Brussels. The Netherlands must take the initiative themselves and reduce the proportion of aid granted to Turkey by the Netherlands in proportion to the EU's payments. We don't have to wait any longer. Is the Minister willing to do this? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the Middle East, starting with Iran. First of all, a remark about the murder of the activist of a movement committed to the liberation of the Arabic part of Iran. That murder was committed in the Netherlands. Will the Minister urge his colleague in office of Justice and Security to make an extreme effort in the investigation of the perpetrators of that murder and not to leave any avenue of investigation unexplored? So much for that point. Mr. Chairman. Iran is building its power in the west. Iraq, the Syria of Assad and the Lebanon of Hezbollah can now count it among his allies. Now Iranian missiles are still in Iran, but they might be a lot closer to Europe. Does the Minister consider that the Iranian expansion in the west also poses a threat to us? Have our F-16s perhaps cleared the way for Iranian power projection in that region? Mr. Chairman. The Iranian expansion of power is also the sword on the throat of Israel. In fact, the Iranians are already building a new military base in Syria, one of many Iranian bases in that country. The so-called "memorandum of principles" that the US, Russia and Jordan closed to ward off foreign forces from Syria is not working properly. The Iranians must be kept far away from Israel and Hezbollah, but that simply does not happen. Can the Minister explain why, in his view, this is not happening? Mr. Chairman. Iran has in recent years brought thousands of Shia Afghans to Syria, who acted as shock troops for Assad. When they return home, it will be a huge problem for Afghanistan. And if they are transferred to Yemen, the violence will intensify there. I'm reluctant to say it, but I don't like the Iranian strategy. Thousands of Afghan Shia have gained war experience in Syria, and now they have available to fight elsewhere for Iranian interests, which is maskirovka at its best. In this context, Iran is now denying its involvement in the fight in Yemen. By the way, it's been doing that for a long time. But the Iranian missile fired from Yemen at Riyadh airport speaks volumes. Does the Minister consider that the Iranian projection of power should be reduced? Does he believe that the grip of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard on Iran itself, a grip that is extremely strong in economic terms, deserves to be undermined? And how, in the view of this Minister, could this be best promoted? Mr. Chairman. ISIS as a state with its own territory seems to be coming to an end. Daesh 1.0 will disappear, but Daesh 2.0 is developing. Hence my question: what will the Minister say about the endgame in Syria and Iraq? Is there any action planned to prevent Daesh 2.0 from rising? According to Resolution 2254 we need a peace process led by the UN. What will be the Dutch commitment to the Security Council on this issue? What I see at the moment is that the Russians, the Turks and the Assad regime ignore the Geneva talks and discuss the future of Syria in their own meetings, with the US only as an observer. Looks like the U.S. is leaving Syria to the Russians and Iran. Arab countries see that well and have moved the beacons by recently strengthening their ties with Russia. A similar kind of remark can also be made about the weak US action in Iraq. The takeover of Kirkuk by pro-Iranian militias was not put in the way of strobe and the Kurds, who were allowed to take the chestnuts out of the fire on the ground, were abandoned. Mr. Chairman. Russia and Iran want to maintain the Assad regime and maintain and strengthen their own bases in the country. We already knew about Iran that their proxy was fighting for the Assad regime, but I have to say that Russia seems to be the same, because Russia's contribution to the destruction of Islamic State was marginal. Russia's military power was for the most part aimed at maintaining Assad. In short, what plans have been developed in the international community to counter and prevent such developments? In that context, I look forward to the arrival of the new American ambassador, Pete Hoekstra. I congratulate him on approving his appointment by the U.S. Senate last Thursday. Does the Minister know when Mr. Hoekstra will be coming? That is important because Hoekstra is known as a great expert in the field of terrorism, particularly Islamic terrorism. I hope that we will be able to gain that expertise as soon as possible, preferably as soon as possible. I ask the Minister to promote this by working on it from his first contact with the new ambassador. Will the Minister do that? The Middle East peace process is really a strange name, because it is about peace between Israel and terrorists who call themselves "Palestines" and it is certainly not going to bring peace throughout the Middle East. I remember a visit to Israel in 2008, where I was able to speak to opposition politician Lieberman. I asked him what he thought of the Middle East Peace Process. His answer was, "Which peace process?" That's what he asked me. It was clear: Lieberman didn't believe in it at the time and we are now ten years and a number of Gaza wars ahead. Fatah and Hamas have agreed for the umpteenth time to reconcile, but their implementation will not come. The sanctions that Abbas has imposed on Gaza, which I do not hear from the Palestinians in this Chamber, are still there. The chief of the Palestinian police has already demanded Hamas to renounce all weapons. That's just not gonna happen. They don't see that in the first place, even less, because there are many other weapons in the Gaza Strip. So who should be negotiated with in order to bring Palestinian violence to a definitive end? The United States seems to be working on guidelines for peace negotiations, I read. The starting point would be to negotiate only with the Palestinian Authority, not Hamas. So failure seems to be baked already. As is well known, the PVV sees a sustainable solution in an Israel stretching from the Mediterranean to the Jordan. The Palestinian State already exists and it is called Jordan. We will have to wait and see if Israel, in particular the current Foreign Minister Lieberman, will now see another round of negotiations, which President Trump seems to want to take the initiative. I do not see anything in this, but I do see something in the restoration of a great injustice, namely the cowardly relocation of our embassy from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv under great Arab pressure. This was done under the direction of the then Prime Minister Van Agt, the great Palestinian friend. Before this happened, we had recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, namely when we first established our embassy in Jerusalem. Jerusalem is still that capital. So bring our embassy back to Jerusalem, so I ask the minister. If the Minister does that, he will make a crushing impression, and I would like to give him that in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u4	I have a question. At the end of Mr De Roon's speech, I always remain a little confused, because there are so many internal inconsistencies in it. This is how this minister should do everything in the UN Security Council; I agree with that, but certainly not what Mr De Roon wants. Mr De Roon wants the Netherlands to leave the UN. For example, Mr De Roon wants to do all he can to tackle jihadists, but especially not at European level, because we need to get out of the European Union. I would ask for a debate after debate and more and more, not only with Mr De Roon, but also with the whole PVV, whether that is serious. Can you still pursue a serious foreign policy if you do not really want to be part of the international community for which you are instructing the Minister all the time and if you are not prepared to make any money for it? After all, you are also deleting the entire development budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u5	If we want to achieve results in foreign policy, if we really want to bring about change, then we must first clean up those large institutions, which are only frustrating and corrupted by all kinds of interests that are not of the community but which, for example, lead to congsi formation. Of course, we must consult with other countries. This is what the PVV wants as much as Mr Sjoerdsma. However, we do not want to do so through the European Union, because there are decisions that are simply imposed on us. We don't want that. We want the Netherlands to remain sovereign and free. If we can make deals with other countries on all kinds of issues that we can support, please. But not dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u6	I do not really know what I would like to go on about, because Mr De Roon is now talking about the EU. I'd still like to stay at the UN for a while. Mr De Roon talks about kongsi formation. It almost sounds like mob-like leftovers are conspiring. First of all, I would like to admit that the UN is far from perfect and does not produce the results we hope for. But Mr De Roon says: throw those institutions overboard. What exactly is your alternative? Are you going to negotiate new treaties independently with each of these 194 countries to do what we already do so well together? Because those are also your priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u7	New consultation forums will develop once the UN is eliminated. But as long as the UN still exists and there are no other fora in which we can consult more meaningfully, more effectively and more effectively, there is the UN. Sometimes we can do something good on subjects; I will not deny that at all. So as long as the UN is there, we will have to make use of it, but we prefer to see another situation, without the UN, in which consultations can lead to things that we can really support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u8	Thank you. One final comment, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u9	For a moment, Mr President, because I think this is important. Mr De Roon, you have made a number of points, for example: to ensure that the UN resolution on MH17 is implemented. There is no other way to do this than within the UN framework and within the EU framework. You can find all kinds of things about the desirability of the UN, but if you have such things as many in this Chamber, you can't seriously say at the same time that the UN needs to clear the ground. That's just not serious and I can't take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u10	It is a pity that Mr Sjoerdsma cannot take it seriously, but I take it seriously. I think we can do it in other ways. We will see in the future if we can do that, but we will have to move the UN first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is not unusual in the Chamber for us to ask, when a new minister is in office, how he wants people to look back on his ministership later. What does a minister want to leave behind? What's he trying to accomplish? For a foreign minister, that's always a bit of a trick question. It's a nice litmus test. Can our guy at the State Department paint a bit of an international view? Does he emerge as a world stormer? Are human rights actually mentioned and how often? And who would the new minister really like to compare himself to? Halbe Zijlstra compared himself with Max van der Stoel with a dash of Frans Timmermans. That is an excellent choice; I am sure French will agree with that. Not only do I know for sure that Frans Timmermans would have said the same thing, but the choice for Van der Stoel is not without meaning. Let's face it. Max van der Stoel was pronounced pro-NATO and pro-America. He never believed in the fairy tales many in his party believed in at the time, for example that the Greek colonel regime had come to power through a CIA plot. In Greece, he was a hero. There's even a square named after him. The Greek Working Party of the Labour Party, with which he, as a parliamentarians, had already drawn attention to the Greek dictatorship, forced him to shake hands with those in power, but also with dissidents. Van der Stoel was already a realist when it was not yet popular to be a realist, a Realpolitiker. I told you, it's an excellent choice. Van der Stoel also had sympathy for Israel. At that time the Labour Party was able to do so; now it is different. Then there was another realist at the helm, Joop den Uyl. And although Van der Stoel was not consulted on the decision to arm Israel during the Yom Kippur War, it did. This decision was partly taken outside of him and completely outside the Chamber by the cabinet of Den Uyl, the most left-wing cabinet we remember. I'm sure you remember that, Madam President, and I'm sure Mrs Ploumen will remember that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u13	Yeah, sure. Of course, it does my red PvdA heart very well that Mr Ten Broeke is so gracious about about all the PvdA Foreign Ministers. He concluded Max van der Stoel that he was a Realpolitiker before Mr Ten Broeke, and probably Mr Zijlstra, had heard of that word. But I would like to ask him a little more about that. If Mr Zijlstra wants to match himself with Mr Max van der Stoel and says that foreign policy is about what is feasible and not about what is desirable, then that is not what the PvdA means by a foreign policy that really leads to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u14	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u15	The question is: how am I supposed to see the comparison between feasible and desirable in the eyes of Ten Broeke? Realpolitik can't just talk about what's feasible. That wasn't Max van der Stoel, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u16	It would be desirable for the Labour Party to take Max van der Stoel as an example. Is it feasible? That's what Mrs Ploumen's about these days. I guess I was 4 years old when Max van der Stoel was sworn in as minister. So I do have to look back. I can't say I've been there actively. But everything I've read about him leads me to the conclusion that it's an excellent choice to compare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u17	But what is feasible as a result and not what is desirable is a very economical, minimalist concept of foreign policy? Mr Ten Broeke and I are about the same age, so I haven't seen Max van der Stoel myself, but I don't recognize him in that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u18	That happened to Max van der Stoel with his party mates when he was a minister. He was indeed not the most popular minister in his own party, I must say in all honesty. I wish I hadn't said that, but with this interruption, you're inciting it a little bit. This is without prejudice to the fact that Max van der Stoel has done more than just supply arms to Israel. He is, of course, also the man who stood up for minorities as High Commissioner for the OSCE at the time. That's how we remember him. I think that Dutch foreign policy owes money to Max van der Stoel. I also remember his period as a representative of the Security Council. But Max van der Stoel always kept the achievable good in mind. Just when you keep the achievable in mind, the desirable is suddenly imaginable. I will await Mrs Ploumen's contribution, which is a maiden speech, I understand. Feasible and conceivable is the comparison you have just made. I actually wanted to draw some other comparisons with Van der Stoel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u19	Finally, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u20	Of course, I did not invent myself that the feasible is better than the desirable. That's from the case of the new foreign minister. It seems relevant to me to talk about this, especially in the context of concern for minorities and human rights, which Max van der Stoel described as such. And no matter how small I was, I'm sure I'd have been an admirer of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u21	Look, that's good. Good to know. We are going to have the debate with the new Minister, Mr Zijlstra. There he is, and we're gonna listen to him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u22	This gives the impression to Mr Ten Broeke that the Labour Party, which has indeed delivered a great many foreign ministers, was undesirable. Can Mr Ten Broeke explain to me the differences in foreign policy between Rutte III and Rutte II? In other words, what was undesirable about foreign policy in the previous period and what is going to change now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u23	I'll be right on to the coalition agreement. There are indeed some other accents in it than under Rutte II, and again other than under Rutte I. But there is also a high degree of agreement. To be honest, I was a little surprised that Mr De Roon was not more enthusiastic about this coalition agreement. After all, Israel is mentioned three times and Flanders once. That wasn't even the case with Rutte I. With three times Israel and once Flanders you have practically summarized the entire foreign policy of the PVV. So I was surprised that there wasn't a little more enthusiasm. We'll see if we can get you excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u24	All right, so the undesirable thing was that the country of Israel was too small, at least that the former Foreign Minister used that word a little less. You expect this minister to call that more often. That's the difference between Rutte III and Rutte II.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u25	No, "Israel" occurs twice and the word "Israeli" occurs once. When it comes to words, we count it that way, but I think that is a rather minimalist view of looking at foreign policy. Anyway, you have to start somewhere. I was very pleased with the Middle East peace policy. It should no longer be called a 'process' of the previous cabinet. I hope that does not mean that I do nothing to the Labour Party, but I was actually very satisfied with it. I think we've managed a number of things. I am thinking, for example, of how the Netherlands has made a serious effort to improve the living conditions of the Palestinians. I'm also thinking about the scanners. There's a lot of shrugging here when I brought that up. I think that was wrong, seeing how they worked and how happy the Palestinians are with it. The Palestinian Authority is always encouraging us to do more. We need to see if we can do that, because we are the only country that is going to be the only country, I say to Mrs Karabulut through you, Madam President, who can actually claim a long-term relationship with both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. As a result, both of us take our country very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u26	In doing so, Mr Ten Broeke continues to embrace the two-state solution. Let us welcome the fact that we are indeed doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u27	I have to get a little scared that at the start of my speech I have to get applause from the SP. I don't know, but maybe I did something good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u29	What I want to say with the example of Van der Stoel and in particular the Yom Kippur War is that you can still intend as much as Foreign Minister, but that events actually make the man. They determine to a large extent how a ministership or cabinet will be remembered. The Den Uyl cabinet, as I have already said, is that the most left-wing cabinet in Dutch history, as far as its foreign policy is concerned, will mainly be reminded of the oil crisis and support for Israel. It is therefore often external circumstances that determine a ministership. "Events, my dear boy, events" would have said to British former Prime Minister Harold Macmillan about this. And yet a minister can leave a clear mark on foreign policy, no matter how constant the history of our foreign policy is. Those who believe in the policy of events, and I belong to it, do not venture to predict. But I did come across something that could be an inspiration. That is a booklet written by Gerry van der List, now known as editor at Elsevier Weekblad. In the nineties he conducted research into the influence of VVDs on Dutch foreign policy. That wasn't as many as the PvdA, but still. "The power of the idea" is called that book. With the Labour Party it might have called "Ideas in power," but well. He studied for decades and divided it into several chapters. I'd like to walk you through it. The first period, the period '48 to '52, is entitled 'The helm must be turned'. As appealing as this title sounds after a period in which ministers of PvdA-huis ruled the ministry, this would not do justice to the successful ministerial committees here: the successful ministerial committees of Timmermans and Koenders. The second chapter is the era from 1959 to 1963 with the title "Emotions, illusions and self-interest." The latter sounds to me and I hope this minister will be able to hear it as music, but I cannot imagine that Minister Zijlstra will ever want to be described as a man of illusions. Emotions I can imagine, but I've known him for some time. I'd rather know him as an idealist without illusions, as John F. Kennedy once characterized himself. But actually, I don't think that title is very good either. More attractive is perhaps the chapter from 1965 to 1971 entitled "A Faithful Allegiance." In these chaotic and confusing times, where tried alliances are shaky and allergic solidarity is more important than ever, that could be an attractive characterization. And yet I'm hoping for a more colourful description. The chapters "Continue" about the period '71 to '73 and "The mouse that roared" about the period '73 to '77 we easily skip. Then I came to the chapter about the period '82 to '86. That is a period that has been given two titles by Van der List, namely "Political Devil Art" which I will leave for a moment for what it is and, now he comes, "The New Reckonability." Not only does that characterize the man Zijlstra as I know him, but as the former Secretary of State for Culture may know, that is also an art movement from the interbellum. It is a period of great uncertainty with a penchant for authoritarian leaders as a reaction to the expressionism that preceded it; perhaps that of Timmermans, we shall say. In those confusing times, I think we need to be sensible. Cooler heads must prevail. The unstable world in which this minister is supposed to operate and defend the Dutch interest requires a realistic but also creative approach. Over the past few years, the VVD has been committed to budgetary treatment for greater selectivity in terms of the use of resources on countries and less selectivity with whom and where we do business. Selectivity and business are the key words here. That seems to be a contradiction, but it is not. First of all, let me pass on the call for more focus. Fortunately, focus, effectiveness and realism are reflected in the new coalition agreement. It's up to us now to work that out. My group considers it important that we focus first and foremost on what is happening at our external borders. Let me put it bluntly: Dutch and, in particular, European foreign policy, which we are in favour of, must first and foremost be external policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u30	Speaking of realism and our self-interest, our self-interest often goes hand in hand with the interests of people elsewhere. Just as we want peace and security, 99% of the world's population wants it. Having said that, I wonder how realistic the VVD is about the results of the war on terrorism. The central point of the coalition agreement is indeed that we must fight terrorism in order to prevent people from fleeing. What does Mr Ten Broeke think of 16 years of war against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u31	Let us, for example, look at northern Iraq. The Netherlands was one of the first countries, when there was a threat of genocide among the Jezidis, who raised his finger and responded to President Obama's appeal by sending troops, in this case the Air Force. It was Dutch F-16 pilots who contributed to the fact that 70,000 Kurds, I do not know if you could imagine, Mrs Karabulut, could return to the city of Kirkuk. This was just referred to by Mr De Roon. This has been done with the support of the Dutch Air Force. This is a contribution to the fight against ISIS which we wanted to do directly, but which unfortunately did not have your support. I think if you ask the families who are safe there again, but you can also look at Mosul and other Kurdish cities in northern Iraq, or at Ahmadiyya, a Sunni city, more on the left side of Baghdad, or at cities in Syria...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u32	Clear, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u33	In all these cities you can say that the fight against the terrible terror of ISIS has resulted, namely that people who were fleeing, with children, in order to defend themselves, have and well, have been supported by the Netherlands and by Western alliances. Unfortunately without your support, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u34	I would like to make a comment, because I notice that the interruptions are short, fortunately, but the answers should also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u35	In addition, it was not an answer to my question. A brief response to that very long story by Mr Ten Broeke. I think the Kurds owe it only to themselves, to their struggle and to giving their lives, that ISIS has been defeated in very large areas. Yes, of course, several countries have helped. My question was: what are the results of 16 years of war against terrorism, the illegal invasion of Iraq, the war in Afghanistan that is still going on, then Iraq-Syria and the overthrow of Kaddafi? I'll present you with some of them. There are 5 trillion dollars invested in this war, but there are more terrorist attacks, there are more terrorists, there are more terrorist groups, there are more refugees and there are more deaths. That security is not there for the people of the region, so what realistic conclusion do you draw from this? Do you dare to follow a policy other than this bankrupt policy of war on terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u36	Mrs. Karabulut, you started so well with short interruptions. Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u37	I'll do my best to keep it a little shorter. It's actually very simple. I think that there are very few Kurds in Iraq who have not experienced the influence of the Allies and of the countries that have made efforts to do so. The claim made by Mrs Karabulut that the Kurds would not recognize that, I do not recognize it. It is true that Mrs Karabulut certainly has a point about the fact that the Kurdish peshmergas trained by the Netherlands in the northern part of Iraq are once again making a huge contribution to the fight against terror, so to speak, in the geographical reduction of ISIS. So it is unmistakable and we have always complimented them, but we could not do that without air force and not without Allied support. Then we are only talking about the Kurds, but we are talking about the Jezidis then I think seriously that you can say here that this people would probably have become a footnote if not the West had acted. I am proud of that, and I do not wish to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u38	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u39	Masterful, masterful! One: I did not claim that the Kurds do not recognize that. Two: the Jezidis are mainly saved by the PKK; it may be that Mr Ten Broeke supports the PKK, it does not have to be. Three: I can't get an answer to my question. What do you think about the fact that 16 years of war against terrorism - Mr Zijlstra used to speak in other words - has resulted in more terrorism, more deaths and more refugees? In other words, if we continue with all these wars, what you say you want to achieve will not succeed. Is that realistic, Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u40	Now I think Mrs Karabulut is asking for something else, namely what lessons we can learn from interventions and where we do and where we do not operate. History is full of examples of interventions that at best have a mixed result. It's not easy either. That's why you have to be reluctant. That is why one of the lessons the VVD has learned is that you have to be very reluctant with an intervention. You need to know if you can achieve a result with it and you must be careful not to want to pursue a "regime change." But in all honesty: not intervening sometimes results in a lot more misery. Iraq was a full intervention, but it is still a united state with all the difficulties. Afghanistan was a full intervention, but I never stood here claiming that it was to get Afghanistan into the 21st century. It was about getting the Taliban down there and getting Al Qaeda out. And most of it worked. Libya was half an intervention, but for the wrong purpose. Syria is an example of no intervention, and Syria is perhaps the biggest problem for us, at least the biggest refugee flows and, certainly, terrorism in the region. In other words, if I look at the interventions of the last 16 years, these are my conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u41	Yes, but conclusions must be very brief, because you have quite a lot of speaking time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u42	Mr President, give it a try: 16 years of interventions in an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u43	No, that can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u44	I am going to make it easy for Mr Ten Broeke to be brief. I listened with great interest to his historic speech, but I do not really understand what he is trying to say. I understand he's excited about Van der Stoel, about Timmermans and about Koenders. I haven't heard about Van der Claw, about Van Aartsen or about Rosenthal. He then embraces the new commerciality. My question to Mr Ten Broeke is, then, what problem is this new relevance actually an answer to or for which policy it is a correction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u45	That's a good question. I was hoping to get to that later in my speech, but I will bring it up right now. In fact, this is about selectivity in the use of resources, so where Foreign Affairs are people and its money's commitment. We have already made a plea, for example, to restrict the countries to which we are focusing and for which there are programmes, to keep OECD countries out and not to focus on too many themes. I think that my colleagues in the coalition will also make a plea to see if, within the framework of the human rights fund that we hope to be able to stop, we can increase it a little, especially with regard to journalists who are in trouble. That can be journalists abroad but also journalists from abroad here. That could be about human rights defenders. This can be about religious freedom, when you look at the situation in the Middle East and how difficult it is for Christians to play a role there. So we're gonna keep an eye on that, but you're gonna need more focus. And then you have to have the courage to prioritize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u46	When people argue for priority and focus, you have to pay attention, because they always mean my priority and my focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u47	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u48	I am sure that this will be the case with Mr Ten Broeke. I have the following question, but perhaps he will go into that later; I will wait for it with excitement. Of what things that we have done in recent years, does the VVD or this coalition say that it is involving the coalition that we should at least not do them anymore? I think that's important to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u49	I wanted to give a few examples later, but I can do that now. Let me give you a few examples of subsidies in which, in my view, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not sufficiently focused. We are dealing with the budget here today. If, for example, you support Zaatar, an NGO in Greece that assists arrived boat migrants in their integration, perhaps Mr Van Ojik himself, in his previous capacity, has looked at it or contributed to it, while we are all trying to discourage illegal migration via that route, then I think: that is the wrong money in the wrong place with the wrong people. Maybe they're really good people, but they shouldn't be working there. That's an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u50	I see Mr Van Ojik hesitating. Will you come back to this in your speech, Mr. Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u51	Well, Van Ojik just wants examples, and I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u52	We can have a whole debate on this one very small example, which is undoubtedly a few tens of thousands of euros or so, but I am curious to see the bigger story of the VVD on the issues that we are about to see in the context of the new business that the VVD is apparently advocating. But I have no problem with waiting further for Mr Ten Broeke's story on this point. Or was this the only example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u53	No, let me give you another example. I just took a look at the list of NGOs. Let me mention one with a little more in it. In Romania you have an NGO, Buzau, which deals with social and cultural rights for the Romanians. Romania is simply a member of the European Union. If they need help with anything, they can. There are huge EU funds available for this. The Netherlands contributes significantly to this. So I think it is wrong, and above all I believe it is wrong, that this kind of thing should remain in the budget. I have consistently been asking for this for a number of years. I hope that the Minister will tell me in his first term tomorrow that he has stopped or that he is going to stop doing so. In any case, in the questions we have been able to put to this budget, I have found that around 10% of this expenditure is still falling down in OECD countries, for example. You are aware of our criticism of the OECD countries. Actually, I don't think they're part of it. It may be that NGOs have their place there, but then the money should not be spent there as well. Last year I found in the budget that we're even giving money to an Igbt project, hold on, Germany. I don't think that's justified. Nor can I justify the fight against the death penalty in the United States, a country with many lawyers, where the per capita legal density is higher than in any Western country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u54	I think these examples are clear. I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u55	Then I'll keep going. I have a few more examples, while we're at it. What about the Belarusian Consumer Protection Society? That is a foundation that may receive €11,000. There are certainly very good reasons for supporting projects in Belarus, but I cannot imagine that consumer protection is one of them. I would like to give the Belarusians more market economy and more democracy, but I think it would be wiser to help them improve human rights and increase freedom. That is the path we have taken with Belarus since we largely lifted the sanctions in 2016. So I would say not consumers, but dissidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u56	I see that Mrs Ploumen wishes to interrupt, but I propose that Mr Ten Broeke continue his speech and that you have the opportunity to interrupt. He has just finished a number of interruptions that have been committed in succession and he has just begun a new part of his speech. Otherwise, he'll be interrupted after every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u57	One more example, because it's so fun. Then I'm gonna quit. A final example is SOMO. This is an organisation that monitors the activities of multinationals, which is also very popular here, and which publishes everything about tax avoidance. That is also a popular theme in the Chamber. Discussions must of course be able to take place on this issue. That's what's happening here. Nor am I opposed to facilitating criticism of government policy, which is essential for a healthy democracy, but that does not mean that we need to finance activism ourselves. I have looked again at our development cooperation and tax spokesmen, but these debates are repeated here and in other rooms. So why do you think you're being subsidized again, you'd say? One may know my position in this. I have had a public discussion about this with OneWorld. The funding of contradiction is what it is called. I insist that the government has an obligation to allow activists to do their work freely. But that does not mean that the government has an obligation to finance that activism. Look, we have to guarantee the right to freedom of speech. But not the subsidy for it. Article 7 of the Constitution, on which we have all sworn an oath, states twice that no one needs leave or permission to reveal his thoughts. But it does not say in the Constitution that anyone has the right to ask for funding or support for that expression. As far as I am concerned, we must continue the discussions. That is also what we are doing here, including the question of which human rights projects we are financing. But perhaps you can imagine that I have doubts about that sort of thing. This also applies, for example, to the financing of projects in Costa Rica. I am perhaps doing Mrs Ploumen a great deal of pleasure for the pineapple chain in Costa Rica. I have had a debate on this with her in her previous capacity. This is one of the richest countries in the Central America region. I also mention other human rights projects known to the richest countries in the world. As I said, 10% of the Human Rights Fund is now going to OECD countries as planned. These are countries such as Chile, France, Austria, the USA and Switzerland. I do not want to say that these organisations are doing the wrong thing, but I would like to know how much of that money is being spent there. I'm more concerned with next. If you're advocating new businessmanship, and I'm doing it here, then you're gonna have to show it to me. In that case, this type of project should not be allowed to happen anymore. So that's what I keep calling attention to. My group would like to see an increase in the Human Rights Fund. We can do that now, as stated in the coalition agreement. And, in line with this coalition perhaps, we want to put the emphasis on human rights defenders, here and in other countries, on journalists and religious freedom, and especially on Christians in the Middle East as far as I am concerned. At the moment, we would like to give the Minister the opportunity to indicate to the Spring Paper or at any other time how much that Human Rights Fund needs to be raised, but we would like to know from him whether he also supports the prioritisation I have just indicated, this thematicisation. Mr. Chairman. That's one side, that's the focus side. Now I really want to continue with matters where I think we should perhaps be less selective. But perhaps this is a logical moment for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u58	A brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u59	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mr Ten Broeke, because I very much agree that human rights deserve to be supported. What we see is that an institution such as the International Criminal Court, which also stands for it, is increasingly under pressure. Countries are retreating, there's fake news around that Criminal Court. Could I count on his support if we ask the Minister to look again at how we can better safeguard the infrastructure of human rights? Can we look again at whether we can play a role in this rather than in pineapple projects, which Mr Ten Broeke does not feel very much about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u60	I am glad to see that we are able to do away with Mrs Ploumen's pineapple projects. I don't know what securing an infrastructure means. What I do know is that a few years ago we made extra money to put the ICC's housing in order. That's what I was for. I made that possible, too. We really had to do our best to find extra money for it when everything was being cut. We did it. Last year, I myself, with your party's colleague Servaes, worked to strengthen the carriers of democracy and the rule of law in countries around the European Union. That amendment was tabled two years ago. We had hoped that this would continue. Unfortunately, I have to say that the previous Foreign Ministers did not continue to do so. I therefore hope to receive a commitment from this Minister. So I will have to make a small correction on that today. I hope that the Member of Parliament Ploumen will help me to make a correction to what the previous foreign ministers have left behind in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u61	The bearers of democracy, that is about institutions like the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u63	So I would very much like to talk to Mr Ten Broeke about how we can do something about this together, because it is extremely important that you not only physically guard the external borders but also guard the moral boundaries and our values. You can do that with institutions like this. So I'm glad we're gonna find each other here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u65	Mr Ten Broeke therefore no longer considers it desirable for us to finance NGOs from the Dutch budget in Belarus, Germany and a number of other examples he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u66	No, ho, ho, I didn't say that. I do not think it is desirable for us to finance consumer protection there. I just said, "Consumers aren't, dissidents are."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u67	You have mentioned a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u68	Sure. At your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u69	Fight for lgbti, support for refugees in Greece and if so no longer support. I wonder if the downside...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u70	Not if you want them to come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u71	There are quite a few Dutch NGOs receiving support from foreign governments, I shall say in Europe. Do we have to do something with that, or do we just leave it for what it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u72	No, I think you should be very sharp and strict on that, too. For example, we have often talked about Gulf states that try to finance mosques here either directly or through private institutions. You know my party's contribution to this. We've been calling attention to that for a long time. We believe that this should also be done very actively. I know there's some sort of earlywarning system with embassies from these countries these days. To be honest, I do not know if that always works, because with some regularity we find reports in the media again if there would not always be a good view from the Dutch government. So I think we should be very keen on that; not just our security services. When it comes to this type of financing, I think that we should try to make agreements with countries like this that it is not just welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u73	It is a bit exciting that there is a party here that says: we all want to get a grip on that. Suppose Germany thinks that the money is going to give to SOMO, which Mr Ten Broeke mentioned as an example of something he does not think should receive Dutch money. Suppose Germany says: that is a good NGO, they also do things in our interest, which we will support. There are a lot of such examples; dozens, perhaps hundreds. Now I understand that Mr Ten Broeke says: we must reach agreement on this, we must try to get a grip on it, in some cases we must put an end to it if we do not like the agenda, and if we like the agenda they may continue. It is a great deal for a representative of a liberal party to argue this here at 5 p.m. on a Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u74	If it had been at 10 a.m. this morning, I would have advocated it. I have also advocated it in recent years, because it is perfectly consistent, Mr Van Ojik. We must be aware that we have had a policy which, fortunately, we are slowly coming back to, I hope, by pushing, among other things, my party. In doing so, we are limiting the number of lifted fingers, whether through funding or not, by using the tax instrument to finance NGOs abroad in a number of countries where we believe we should do so. I believe that, under Balkenende, with Maxime Verhagen as Foreign Minister, we have even had an AIV report on this subject in which human rights policy in the Netherlands was classified as a doughnut. "Much in the periphery, nothing in the center." It was an English report, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u75	But was that the question, Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u76	Lots of countries, lots of priorities, but no focus. So if I insist on focusing and also on consulting with those countries, it is perfectly consistent when I say that we want to be able to continue to exercise control ourselves, that we also want to be able to keep an eye on what other countries are funding here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u77	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u78	So it is not about the number of lifted fingers that Mr Ten Broeke is talking about, but about the fact that you can only lift your finger if the VVD agrees. Because if you don't, your grant will be called into question. That's the point, of course. There is a world of difference between what Mr Ten Broeke thinks is important and what I think is important. He thinks he can determine which organisation and which organisation is not eligible for funding. I would never do that. As far as I am concerned, an organisation that promotes the VVD principles has as much right to grant as an organisation that promotes the GroenLinks principles. That is the difference between Mr Ten Broeke and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u79	No, it's not. Mr Van Ojik really makes it a caricature. If he knew his history a little better, he wouldn't have said this here either, but he might be able to come back again. Let me give him an example. One of the projects for which the VVD has made itself very hard is Shelter City, or City Shelter, as I believe it is called. If I do have it, we've made extra money for it on a regular basis. If I do, Mr President, I say to Mr Van Ojik, it has been an idea and an initiative of GroenLinks. That is precisely about those human rights defenders who may be getting a little too hot abroad and who can then come here and cool down and be caught here in a protected environment. That wasn't an easy story for us, but I did support it, and I've spent extra money on it on a regular basis. So I'm not interested in the purpose, I'm interested in the effect. And there is no effect at the time when you are going to organize your own contradiction in an environment where contradiction is already completely natural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u80	I suggest that you proceed, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u81	Mr. Chairman. So I have already indicated where I want more selectivity and focus to be applied. I would also like to say that I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the motion tabled by Mr Servaes and I earlier on about supporting civil society. Unfortunately, he is no longer in this Chamber, but I would remind him of this. In my view, the money that is being reduced there is not in line with the motion at the time. I'd like to see something happen there. I would like to hear an answer from the Minister. I asked for it from the previous minister. There was a commitment in the previous budget, which in my view has not been fulfilled. I would hope that we can do that now, otherwise I will consider a motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the contradiction I have already announced, i.e. applying selectivity to people and resources, especially where it concerns the effectiveness of our foreign policy, and determining where we might need a little less focus. My group is asking the Minister to be selective, as you have just heard. It's about the distribution of our taxpayers' money. I'd like to see that effective. I do not lay down any substantive conditions there, and the example of Shelter City has just been mentioned, but I would also like to call on the Minister to be less selective. I expect this Minister to avoid dialogue with anyone. I expect this minister to be willing, as we have sometimes called it here, to shake the most bloody hand, which would help to prevent bloodshed. I know that there is an image of this minister that he would prefer to shake hands with all dictators. At least that was in a headline above an article. I checked that interview again and I couldn't find that statement, so I'd like to hear him explain it here again. He had also written a long article in a magazine that is well read in my party. Well, I don't really know if it was read properly, because it was a very long article, but it wasn't in it either. The VVD fully supports the principle that we should engage in conversation with uncomfortable interlocutors, even uncomfortable allies and friends. I would almost say: in line with Van der Stoel with a touch of Timmermans when he started talking to Cuba. But also: in line with Sigrid Kaag, when she spoke to Hezbollah on request, I say to Mr De Roon of Israel and when she tried to get rid of Assad's chemical arsenal. Disarming Assad is also doing business with Assad. It's making dirty hands. If we want to de-escalate with Russia, it won't help if we deny Putin access to the Holland Heineken House. I'd say that beer is the cheapest form of diplomacy. Now, because of the deeply disappointing performances of our Dutch football team, I am referring to the gentlemen and not to the ladies who do not have to think about Dutch bobos sitting in the gallery, it is very much the question whether the gays in Russia will get better. Because when Rutte was in Sochi, he asked Putin about the situation of lhbt's. Minister Schippers attended the Russian Open Games at the invitation of the Russian LGBT Sport Federation. Now we must leave it to the French and Sweden, who once again shone in Sochi by their absence. Talking to Putin, with Xi, but also with Trump, being reasonable towards coercion, convincing against showing power: in foreign politics, it comes down to the ability of the other to do something in your best interest. Bottom line: to intimidate the other. Leverage. We can't do that with oil. We can do less and less with gas. And we certainly can't do it with big armies. We need to talk about our persuasiveness. It does not increase as the number of beliefs or the number of lifted fingers increases. So we have to choose, focus and strike where our leverage, our influences are the greatest, because this world is becoming less and less settled by our elevated and sometimes even superior views. Mr. Chairman. We must realise that the rest of the world does not look like the Netherlands. According to Freedom House, 98 of the 195 countries, 55%, are not, or are just a little free. We're gonna have to deal with that. That means making dirty hands sometimes. This calls for relevance, a new sense of responsibility, if you will. I am not talking about the length of the Minister's answers. He's already shown the first signs of that. I believe he only needed one term in his first AO. We hadn't seen that before. But I am talking about the way we talk to other countries in the world and about a way of doing business that would like to strengthen our position in international organisations, which stimulates the branding of the Netherlands. We are doing this by pursuing a visible and effective foreign policy, which will make a real contribution to peace, security and prosperity, and which will consolidate and strengthen our bilateral relations. Mr. Chairman. In Box K there is a minister who knows what we would like to see when it comes to what choices he would make, where he should be more selective and where that selectivity should be reduced. I don't think everyone's gonna like that. That is also evident from the interruptions. But foreign policy is also about those choices. Foreign policy is just as political as any other dossier: who gets what, when and how. Only MPs and directors with this portfolio have the opportunity to dress those choices a little more. The need to make those choices is no less. I know this minister can do that. He can also count on us to follow him critically. Whether he goes into history as that loyal ally, the man of self-interest, the man of new commerciality or simply as "delicious, clear, Halbe," that's up to him and a little to the historians and also a little to us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u82	I would like to come to this very interesting point. I am not one of those who understand that this minister is involved with dictators. That head above that article doesn't cover the load. I don't believe that at all. I have read the article to which Mr Ten Broeke referred very well. That's a very interesting piece. There is one very important position in this. It is said: when you do business with countries or when you are in contact with countries, it is first about stability and then about democracy and human rights. I'm sure I got that right. That's what it says. That is a doctrine of new relevance. The article is about Egypt. This example is well worked out in the article. My question to Mr Ten Broeke is: if you apply this to the specific foreign policy, what are the other Egyptians? Which countries are they talking about? Where have we apparently talked too much about democracy so far, and where are we going to talk more about stability and order if the new sense of responsibility prevails? Which countries are these, except Egypt? Because I've already understood from the article that it's also about Egypt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u83	Egypt is indeed a good example. Recently, that turned out to be the case again. I will not explain that further, because you thought it already happened in the article, even though Egypt recently gave very good again... We see how there is now dealt with for example the gay marriage... Although, the gay marriage they do not know there. But we see how people of equal gender are treated there who try to marry each other, they often do so in other countries, and how people who have a relationship with a person of equal gender are treated at all. At the same time, we see how important it is for Egypt, for example, to achieve reconciliation between the Palestinian Authority and Hamas. Mr De Roon does not believe in that, but in the meantime, that conciliation is almost a month old. If you are looking for leverage, you should be able to raise both issues with Egypt. I do not think that the article does that either, but I am speaking on my own behalf here not to discuss the human rights agenda with countries. But I do believe that human rights are not a guiding principle for whom we maintain relations with. No, within the relationships, we maintain them on human rights. That is the starting point and you can, so to speak, place any country in it. In the past, and if you look at some parties' motions, we have sometimes allowed human rights to be determined who we are and who we are not talking to. Yes, then the conversation becomes very one-sided. And it's going to be a conversation with fewer and fewer countries, I'm afraid, and with more deaf ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u84	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u85	My question was about the periodicity advocated in the article: first stability, then human rights. That's different than saying: we both do it at any time or both. I'm interested in this docility. I think there is a mistake in thinking about this, but I am sure we will discuss it with the Minister tomorrow. My question was: what are the other Egyptians? Mr Ten Broeke went into Egypt again in detail, but I already knew that, because I had already read that in the article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u86	Tunisia, for example, but let us take the most difficult example. The bottom line is that we always run into dilemmas. Look, dealing with friends and allies isn't that complicated. Dealing with opponents is complicated, but at least here in the Chamber the policy is broadly shared. The most difficult category is that of the uncomfortable allies, friends and countries who constantly pose special dilemmas. Take Saudi Arabia, for example. We've talked about that a lot here. The Netherlands has a very active policy on Saudi Arabia when it comes to the war in Yemen. We can't do everything. The best thing would be if we could get all the bloggers who are in prison right now free. The best thing would be if we could write on our conto. I know that a number of parties here think they have contributed to this and I would like to leave them in that illusion that women can drive there from March or summer next year. I've worked that out before. This Chamber has tabled so many motions in few countries, in which we take Riyadh and prescribe something, then on Saudi Arabia. I have always argued in favour of choosing one subject to focus on. Koenders did that, sorry, Minister Koenders did that in the previous cabinet. He chose to alleviate the humanitarian situation in Yemen, for example in the Human Rights Council to urge independent research. We have had two resolutions that have failed and the third one has succeeded. Not only did we have to get Arab countries on our side, but we also had to get real allies, such as the British, on our side. That is an example of the policy of choice we are pursuing. Then you create stability and human rights. I've always supported the Minister in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u87	I see that just another thing, but all right, then it's a word game. Stability can only be achieved if human rights are sufficiently guaranteed. In addition, peoples all have the right to self-determination. So do we. We choose our own government. If it is going to oppress us horribly, then we will rise up. Hopefully we'll get outside support, but ultimately we'll decide. So talk? Yes. Speaking of Saudi Arabia, in the eyes of Mr Ten Broeke, is that an uncomfortable friend or simply an enemy? How are we supposed to set ourselves in the direction of that enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u88	Saudi Arabia is a very uncomfortable ally in the fight against terror. Without the information the security services share with the intelligence community, we would be far less effective. Saudi Arabia itself also suffers a great deal from the type of terror that we must combat, unlike the one that is sometimes adopted here in the Chamber. But it is undoubtedly an extremely difficult country; I admit that immediately. If we go close to Saudi Arabia, as Mrs Karabulut's party advocates, then we have no right to speak. Then we do nothing for the bloggers who prefer to be released there, then we can no longer attend court cases to see if there is a verdict on penalties that are pronounced, then we can no longer do anything against capital punishment for minors, in which the Netherlands played a special role. All these things we can write on our belly, and I don't wish for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u89	It's striking. I do not know what Mr Ten Broeke has eaten, but he fills in all kinds of things for me that I have not said. I'm not saying we should close for Saudi Arabia. I have just confirmed to Mr Ten Broeke that we must always keep talking to everyone. I would like to know from Mr Ten Broeke whether he supports our proposal that a priority be given to Yemen's UN Security Council. Then our new Foreign Minister could make an effort to put an end to the bloody conflict, at least to the conflict on the ground, starting with a truce. That means that there are no more weapons being delivered to Saudi Arabia. He also sees the images from Yemen of all those emaciated people. There is a threat of the largest cholera epidemic. That is inhumane and contrary to everything that Mr Ten Broeke and I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u90	Firstly, a motion has already been adopted with the support of the VVD to see what we can do. This motion has helped to ensure that we have been able to commit ourselves to the Human Rights Council, which was the predecessor of this Minister, in order to enable independent investigations into possible war crimes committed in Yemen. We supply almost nothing to Saudi Arabia. If you would like this to happen, you should contact countries such as Justin Trudeau's Canada or Great Britain or Sweden. Those countries are still supplying massive weapons. We don't do that. That is why I have not supported previous motions in this area either. This is typical of the symbolic policy that we often argue with each other here in the Chamber. And then you have an objective, as Mrs Karabulut does, namely famine or war in Yemen. It's all bullshit! I'm not going to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u91	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u92	It is typical that Mr Ten Broeke is having a great deal of trouble listening to me today. That could be me. My proposal was: will we ask the Minister together if he wants to make Yemen a priority? I didn't fill anything out with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u93	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u94	Listen, Mr Ten Broeke, I was speaking. I would like to ask you whether we can jointly ask the Foreign Minister next year, when we are on the United Nations Security Council, to make Yemen a priority in order to end this human tragedy as quickly as possible by all means possible. We will then be in contact with all kinds of important countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u95	The answer is no. I thought this was clear. We already have that as a priority. I have indicated exactly what is effective there. To achieve your goals, a gun boycott is not effective. We cannot force a truce. The most effective method of alleviating the humanitarian situation in Yemen, I found the policy as it was used. You were against that at the time. That's what I'm here for. I do not now need to give this minister any more priorities, for example because we are now entering the Security Council. This is already a priority of Dutch foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u96	All I want to say is that I am very sorry that Mr Ten Broeke refuses to listen to me in one way or another. He's talking about a different subject than I'm presenting to him. That's too bad, especially for the Yemenis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u97	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take Mr Ten Broeke back to his new business. But first, a correction. Tunisia is a democracy. Mr Ten Broeke made it appear that this country fits into the list of countries with a dictator that Minister Zijlstra did not talk about in the piece I also read. There are not so many pieces, so we all came up with the same thing. Then there's the new businessmanship. It is important that we get a good idea of this. How does Mr Ten Broeke see that in practice? Take President Duterte of the Philippines, for example. He was democratically elected. He has a program that partly consists of the extrajudicial execution of people. How would Mr Ten Broeke like Minister Zijlstra or this cabinet to deal with this in the light of the new relevance? That businessmanship is also a quest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u99	I think I have already indicated this a little bit by saying that I think we should focus our foreign policy first and foremost on where we can make the biggest difference. In the Philippines, we can make little or no difference. We can join the line of the international community, whether or not we feel senang. That could be the European Union. I believe that we should focus first and foremost on our own external borders and therefore also on the countries in and directly around Europe. The Philippines is not a priority for me. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u100	The Philippines seems very far away, but it is precisely the problem that Duterte wants to solve with these improper means, namely the problem of drugs, that we also see in our own streets, although fortunately less than in the 1980s. So I would say: it is precisely a country where the new commercialism advocated by Mr Ten Broeke in the relationship is likely to bear fruit. But I really need to know what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u101	The biggest drug flows are from Afghanistan. We are also actively present there; that is part of the Dutch foreign and security policy. So if you want to be effective on what is happening here on the Dutch street, what is being traded on drugs, for example, we may need to review our policy there. You yourself, in your previous capacity, have been jointly responsible for the projects we have there. I will not venture to judge its effectiveness, but if we are effective, at least we will be there. I would say, then, let us concentrate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u102	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u103	We do, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u104	Yes. Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u105	That effectiveness is not too questionable, but that is a side-step that Mr Ten Broeke wants to take. I am going to ask the Minister how he interprets this new aspect, because it is a pity that Mr Ten Broeke does not take us for a moment in how he sees it. But I'm assuming we'll have a lot of debates. The important question is what this new businessmanship is, because that's how it seems to be a bit of an emperor without clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u106	Well, then you're the one pointing that out. Let's hope... We'll see how the fairy tale ends soon. I introduced "New Interest" because it was one of the chapters in Gerry van der List's book. Given the number of interruptions, I have the feeling that it was not all about nothing either. Because then it wouldn't have triggered a reaction. I would like to say that this is perhaps also a new business model, but I would also like to see what is really at the heart of our foreign policy. In my view, that is what we need to stand up for Dutch interests. This is not always said by everyone with the same enthusiasm, but it is at the heart of our foreign policy. It is also defending the interests of Dutch people. I would therefore like to conclude my contribution by referring to the coalition agreement and the point I am very pleased with, namely that we are making more money available for the postal network. I expect this Minister to take this Chamber with him in the intensifications we have planned and to say something about it tomorrow. In the long term, I expect him to come up with plans to create a 24-hour window. The Dutch are traveling. In 2016, Dutch people undertook no less than 17.5 million holidays abroad, twice as many as they went on holiday in the interior. And this number is still increasing. As far as I am concerned, all these Dutch people must be able to count on good service if they are in trouble. This applies not only to Dutch people who are on holiday or doing business abroad, but also to Dutch people who live there, but I would like to come back to that once you have given Mr Van der Staaij an opportunity, President, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u107	Well, I'd finish this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u108	I thought you wanted to give Mr Van der Staaij the opportunity to intervene. You're the boss, so I'll keep going. We have a responsibility to the Dutch who live, live and work abroad. That's about 800,000 to 1 million. In fact, as I said, it is the core task of the Ministry to defend the interests of the Dutch there. I and my group want them to be able to vote without problems and that if they get into trouble, for example, if they are detained, they can count on good consular assistance. We must receive the evaluation of the detention counseling in the Chamber in 2018. I am curious to see how the policy change in this area has worked out. There was quite a difference between what the Court of Auditors said and what the Minister himself thought when dealing with the final accounts. The Court was not convinced of the effectiveness of the policy changes, the Ministry itself was very enthusiastic. I hope the Minister will be able to go into that tomorrow, because I saw a flagrant difference there. We can do more for Dutch people abroad. For example, I expect the Minister to come forward as soon as possible after the ongoing pilot operation. At the moment, a pilot with travel documents is coming up with plans to enable mobile passport provision, especially in the event of an emergency, and to shape it in a structural way afterwards. My group's appeal is that we should continue to take the lead in exploring ways of enabling travel documents to be issued abroad together with trusted third parties, as they call them. I would like to make this a key issue. We are talking about a budget that is still poor in policy. We call for more clarity on money and priorities by letter of amendment, in the spring note or, for example, in the human rights note. In this budget, however, I would very much like to draw attention to the core task of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is because we can help and assist all those Dutch people travelling or doing business abroad, who are also part of the business model and the identity of the Netherlands. I want them to feel like they have a ministry they can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u109	Under the heading 'new businessmanship', Mr Ten Broeke raises several points, which I also agree with. For example, he talks about strengthening religious freedom, defending journalists and also strengthening the postal network. On that last point, I remember that not so long ago, under the influence of this new businessmanship, there has been a lot of cuts in those posts. So how do we prevent us from getting a yo-yo policy and getting the business going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u110	I'll admit, there's been a lot of cuts. At posts, and I am talking not only about embassies, but also about consulates-general, we have done our best from the moment it was possible to reserve extra money for them. My party, too, has done so, even in the period behind us. I am thinking of the Consulates General in Munich, Japan, Canada and Antwerp. If I get it out of my head for a second, that's four that's been squeezed back in. Mr Van der Staaij has one point, namely that we must be careful not to rush into a yo-yo policy. When we look back at the period of austerity, we can see that sometimes we have had to cut into the meat, where we would rather not have wanted to. Furthermore, we can see that in some posts it has become very thin, with one or two diplomats and for the rest local staff. This is also because we want to be present everywhere as the Netherlands. I welcome the fact that if we step up again, we will do exactly that, which I have now called for, namely at our external borders and in that ring of instability. In doing so, we need to look at security threats and terror and ensure that we have people at the embassies looking after migration components. Those are the priorities I would like to make now that there is some more money, but it was necessary to cut first in order to be able to blossom. That's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ten Broeke. Mr Ten Broeke has been here for an hour, of which he has only spoken 18 minutes. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u112	I might be a little less interrupted, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u113	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u114	I liked the debate. I also like standing here now with the Dutch flag on my right. That's different. Maybe the European flag will be added as well. The Netherlands has a new Foreign Minister with a brand new sound. Upon his arrival, he said in front of the NOS camera: "The world is an unheimical place, where things happen that also affect the Netherlands. Keeping our country as it is is is an important task for me as Foreign Minister." I can't help it, but it immediately reminded me of Asterix. I do sometimes. "All Gauls are always written about France being occupied by foreign soldiers when that was their name, but one small settlement remains courageously resisting." Halbe swallows the potion and achieves his goal: in the Netherlands everything remains the same. Keeping our country the way it is, that can't be all, can it? The outside world as a threat, I hope that's only part of the story. Of course, the Minister is entering an uncertain world, in which relations are constantly changing, as was, frankly, the case for all his predecessors. There are too many threats; my colleagues have already spoken about them. Luckily, that's not the whole story. We have become more connected in this world than ever before. Our knowledge of each other and of what's going on is bigger than ever. We have unprecedented technical possibilities to make the world a better place. If we look more closely, we also see the power of consultation and diplomacy in the midst of all threats and uncertainties. We see the Paris climate agreement. We see the nuclear weapons deal with Iran. We see the anti-nuclear weaponry, which has been signed by more than 120 countries. Can the Netherlands, which negotiated with us, but not signed with us, find any connection to that? We also saw the power of diplomacy in the UN Human Rights Council, in which, not least by continuing Dutch action, a study was decided on the role of Saudi Arabia in Yemen. Diplomacy matters. Dialogue and international cooperation are the only correct answer if tensions arise. Then it's also about changing the world and the Netherlands, not keeping everything as it is. I would like to elaborate on three points, Madam President. Firstly, GroenLinks advocates more action to combat climate change and the depletion of the earth. You won't be surprised. Climate change is not a future threat, it is a reality today. Water scarcity, sea level rise, loss of biodiversity, extreme drought, abundant rainfall. They rob more and more people of their means of existence, they stir up conflicts and they lead to migration. This effect is increased by the production of palm oil and soya, by mining and by containment for hydropower. Last year, an area as big as New Zealand was stripped. An area as big as New Zealand! Foreign investors in developing countries are buying up massive agricultural land. Meanwhile they occupy... "Occupying," that's almost a freudian slip! In the meantime, they covered more than 30 million hectares of land worldwide. That's 15 times all farmland in the Netherlands. Local activists are committed to countering this land-grabbing and deforestation. That is in all our interests, but their work is becoming more and more dangerous. The intimidation is increasing. The NGO Global Witness, which is just under Mr Ten Broeke's subsidy criteria, I hope that last year there were 80 murders on land law activists and conservationists. The perpetrators often remain unpunished. We understand from the coalition agreement that there will be more money. Mr Ten Broeke also spoke about this. I ask the Minister whether he wants to make room in the human rights programme for people who protect their own country and thereby also do us a favour. I have also tabled an amendment on this. Mr. Chairman. The geopolitical impact of climate change deserves more attention. I am pleased that the Netherlands is going to take climate change into account in the Security Council agenda, and I assume that the same is true of the new international security strategy that the cabinet is going to draw up. I hope the Minister will confirm that. The fight against the deterioration of the climate is largely about energy. With Nord Stream 2, Germany and the Netherlands commit to a decades-long extension of Russian gas dependence. I find this extremely unwise, of course, because natural gas is not nearly as clean as it seemed to be at first, but also because we make ourselves more dependent on Russia, the country of Crimea, the country of MH17, the country of daily fake news. President-in-Office of the Council Zijlstra made a strong assessment of this country: it is necessary to respond to the deliberate attack on European interests with substantial and long-term sanctions, even if this affects its own economy. I assume the Minister still thinks so. I would like to ask him: is it wise in this light to continue chaining us to Putin's natural gas? Can the Minister at least promise not to make a Dutch diplomatic effort for the benefit of this project? And can he promise that we will support the European Commission's proposal to raise together on the gas market? I like to hear it. My second point is that we need to do more to deal with the threat of a new arms race. The unheimical of this world, which the minister talked about, is largely caused by the ubiquitous presence of increasingly dangerous weapons. That is precisely why it is so important that we continue to work on nuclear disarmament worldwide. The activists who have committed themselves to banning nuclear weapons have quite rightly received a Nobel Prize. I think it is positive that the Netherlands has negotiated the treaty, even though we voted against it in the end. How will the Minister make an effort to remove the barriers that stand in the way of Dutch signing? The argument in the letter we received about that does not convince me. How is a prohibition treaty contrary to the Treaty against proliferation? The cabinet says that there is no credible verification mechanism, but that can be added. Will the Netherlands be committed to this? According to the Cabinet, the treaty is also in breach of NATO obligations. But there are more Member States that do not want nuclear weapons on their territory in peacetime, such as Norway, Denmark and Spain, and countries that even have a national ban, such as Iceland and Lithuania. I would ask the Cabinet not to cooperate in any case with new nuclear weapons. Is it true that the US intends to modernise nuclear weapons on Dutch soil by 2020? And can the Minister inform the Chamber beforehand about this modernisation and what it means? GroenLinks has called more attention to the rise of the killer robot. I am pleased that a working group of experts is now looking at the possibilities of limiting the deployment and production of autonomous weapons. The Dutch Government is, in my view, far too laconical on this dossier so far. An armed drone shooting based on facial recognition. A robot that shoots anything that moves. A ship that destroys all submarines in a particular zone without human intervention. Of course, that is technically possible, but is that also desirable as far as the Minister is concerned? Or should such weapons be restricted? Finally, my final point is an offensive for human rights and the rule of law. It is the government's duty to promote the international legal order, but there is a danger that things will go wrong. Let me give you three examples. In the debate on the declaration of government, it was already about the tension between the Refugee Convention, the intention to send everyone crossing from North Africa back to North Africa and the individual right to protection. What is this going to look like in practice, and what countries are we seeing as safe at the moment, so that we can realise the plans of the coalition agreement to send everyone who arrives on the European coast back and go into procedure somewhere else? Another example is the fight against IS. Is it true, as I would ask the Minister, that some of our allies instruct their military not to make prisoners of war and that IS fighters should be killed, even if they were captured, injured or surrendered? How does the Netherlands feel about that? Isn't this contrary to the Geneva conventions? The third example is the EU as a value community. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, are we not obliged to enforce the rule of law more firmly? When the national holiday in Poland is hijacked by fascist protesters, the Polish Government welcomes the great turnout. A sad development, an EU state unworthy. Is the Minister prepared to support the Commission's proposal to open an Article 7 procedure? Finally, I have asked for attention and extra commitment from the cabinet on green, disarmament and human rights. I look forward to the Minister's answers and the debate we will undoubtedly have tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u115	Mr Van Ojik said something about sending refugees back when they crossed the Mediterranean. Of course, GroenLinks has been negotiating this for a long time, as long as we have negotiated with this cabinet in total; I believe it was a total of three months. I still wonder what the alternatives of GroenLinks are for not sending refugees back here in the end, because I assume that GroenLinks too wants to avoid these terrible tragedies in the Mediterranean Sea. Mr. Van Ojik knows a lot about that, because he was in a previous position as a migration ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u116	Sure. Our position on this has always been clear, in the sense that we have always said that people crossing the border are now generally talking about people crossing from North Africa, to an important extent to Italy, to start with being a very important part of people at risk, high costs for smugglers and no chance of asylum in Europe, because they simply do not have political grounds to flee. They're economic migrants. They may have very good reasons to flee, but they will not get asylum in Europe. Those people need to go back. At least as far as my party is concerned, there has never been any ambiguity about that. The group that will then be left, which will cover up to 15% to 20% of the total number of floodlights, are people who we say are entitled to a good, careful procedure in Europe. If they are entitled to asylum, we believe that they should be able to obtain asylum in Europe. So we have always been opposed to sending people back to whatever country they want first. I have asked the Minister what these safe countries are where we can send these people back, and then get them somewhere in an unclear procedure and see if you can get some more people into Europe. That is the right to asylum in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u117	That is understandable, but I do not think that GroenLinks in itself is against migration deals either, because what would be more beautiful than that these people don't have to take those boats? We agree on the category of 'non-refugees', but Mr Van Ojik referred to the category of'refugees'. They're coming, but what could be more beautiful than screening them there, in Africa? If they are not eligible, they are not eligible. If they are eligible, we could do more resolution if the influx here in Europe decreases; hence that passage in the coalition agreement. So we can have selected people come to Europe. I assume that's what GroenLinks was for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u118	Let me not use the term 'primary lower limit', but the fundamental objection we have with the policy now laid down in the coalition agreement is that you will no longer give people who knock in any way in Europe the chance to apply for asylum in Europe. Those people are going to be returned to any African country, which we say is safe. I wonder which countries they are; I do not know them. Those people can then appeal to the asylum procedure in that country. And then we will see if, if the asylum influx figures fall, we may be able to resettle a number of people as well. If the coalition agreement is implemented, the Netherlands will do 750.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u119	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u120	I'm looking for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u121	While there are 65 million refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u122	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u123	Then I'll just find the difference between GroenLinks and the Christian Union. We have also always said: when someone arrives at Schiphol, let's just say that a Dolmatov is at Schiphol Airport, he should be given a procedure. That is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. But GroenLinks and the Christian Union both want people not to take those boats? If we want to do that, we have to select in Africa at the gate. That's where we have to select. If people are refugees, then we have opportunities in Europe. If they're not refugees, they shouldn't take those boats at all. So we have to select from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u124	If you want people not to take those boats, you have to tackle the root causes of migration. Then you need to improve care in the region and tackle human trafficking. We don't disagree at all about all these things. Mr Voordewind asks what the difference between GroenLinks and ChristenUnion is. That's what you do to the people who, anyway, come to Europe. When I read the coalition agreement, all these people are sent back to A... No, Mr. Voordewind shakes now, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u125	No, please make your...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u126	Well, then I misunderstood. Okay, I'm gonna wait. Then I'm gonna listen to what happens to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u127	No, Mr Voordewind, you'll have plenty of time to take your position...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u128	People are getting...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u129	First, finish your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u130	Well, okay. I try to explain the difference between the position of GroenLinks and the coalition agreement. If it is up to us, people arriving in Europe have a right to seek asylum here. By "here" I mean not necessarily in the Netherlands, but in Europe. Then there could be a system of redistribution across Europe based on strength and solidarity. But I understand from the government agreement that people crossing the border will be sent back to Africa. And then Mr Voordewind says: that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u131	Mr Voordewind, please explain this briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u132	I don't have the coalition agreement here, but then I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u133	Then perhaps Mr Van Ojik should read the coalition agreement again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u135	Because the coalition agreement, especially the first passages, is aimed at entering into migration deals in Africa, so that people from there can undergo selection. When people come from other parts of the world, they arrive at Schiphol Airport and they just get an asylum procedure. That's how Mr Van Ojik should read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u136	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that's important. Perhaps Mr Voordewind can reply again, because I am not talking about the people who are in Africa and are considering crossing. We fully agree on this: you must try to remove the motives, you must try to tackle the smugglers and you must try to improve reception in the region. It's about the people crossing. We don't like that... We don't like that at all, but people are crossing, knocking in Europe and saying that they want to apply for asylum here, because they fled Eritrea, South Sudan or Chad. I understand from the coalition agreement, and I have read it very well, that we are going to bring these people back to Africa and that they can appeal to the asylum procedure there. If Mr Voordewind says that it is not and that I have read it wrong, that is news to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u137	You may explain, but no...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u138	Are these people being sent back to Africa or not? Or are they allowed to apply for asylum here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u139	Soon Mr Voordewind will have his say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u140	Sure, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u141	Then you can ask him about this. But we're not gonna ask questions from behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u142	It almost seems like I misread the coalition agreement. It would be very nice if you did!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u143	You may explain it later, Mr Voordewind. Thank you very much, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u144	Okay. I'm gonna look it up right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u145	I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u146	Thank you, Madam President. In August, I spoke to a Nigerian senator. At the end of the conversation I said: if the population growth in both our countries continues this way, then in five years' time our two countries together will have more inhabitants than the United States. That only indicates that as a small country we can make a difference in the world. However, the condition is that we do our work together with others. As a new foreign affairs spokesman, I will monitor the government's work in this way. With this motivation, you can expect a constructive input from the group. In this sense, I look forward to this debate and the forthcoming debates. I like to learn from the knowledge, experience and skills already present in this Chamber. I congratulate the Minister on his new position and wish him every success. I would also like to use this budget debate to share our views on the work in the foreign affairs field, what our concerns are and what directions we consider important. Mr. Chairman. The American writer and correspondent for the New York Times David Shipler said the following about Foreign Affairs: "Looking at Foreign Affairs is sometimes like watching a magician. The eye is drawn to the hand that performs a dramatic game and leads away from the other hand, which does the important work." Both hands are strictly necessary to achieve the right result. The question is, of course, whether the Chamber is one hand and the Minister is the other, and perhaps the comparison is not entirely fair either, but some relativization of our work allows us to choose where we can make the difference. On the other hand, too much relativization is not good, because that leads to indifference. That is the last thing we want to achieve. As a history teacher I used the filming of the book Im Westen nichts Neues by a German war veteran from the First World War. The title of the book is the report from the German western front at headquarters, in which it is described in a single line "Im Westen nichts Neues" that, as in the previous days, hundreds of young men had died in the trenches war without consequences for the front line. With fragments from that filming, I let students discover that relativization and shifting standards can lead to indifference in compelling atrocities. We must guard against that indifference. It can just sneak in, for example in the case of persecution for the sake of religion or faith. Especially in the coming year it will be very important that we do not let in the indifference, also because of the role that the Netherlands has. We will be able to compete in the heavy weight class next year. We're on the United Nations Security Council. Almost all the issues we are discussing today, but also many others, are addressed in the United Nations Security Council. The Netherlands is there. That is why I am using this budget debate to clarify a number of issues. The CDA wants to give the Minister some important points for the coming year when we are at the table of the United Nations Security Council. First of all, we are calling for the Minister's commitment to Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. We think that is really very important, which is why we call it first. People throughout the world are persecuted for their religion. Every persecuted believer is one too many. Now it is not possible to help the whole world, but we can help reduce the number of people in trouble. That is why the CDA welcomes an important sentence in the coalition agreement. It says that the government is going to fight for vulnerable groups. Examples are also mentioned, including Christians. The CDA is pleased that it has been chosen to name this group of vulnerable. Followed Christians form the largest group of persecuted for the sake of religion, for the sake of faith. Open Doors has calculated that 215 million Christians worldwide are discriminated against, persecuted, threatened and murdered on a daily basis. The CDA is very interested in how the government will work on this, especially in view of the role of the Netherlands in the United Nations Security Council. In the budget text, because that is what we are talking about, religious freedom is mentioned, but not specifically in relation to vulnerable groups in the world such as persecuted Christians. The text was drawn up before, of course, the Minister was Minister and also before this coalition agreement was concluded and signed. But that's why it's okay for the Minister to say something about it in a moment. Also in relation to the increase in the Human Rights Fund, a good thing and not for nothing included in the coalition agreement, the CDA wants to give something to this minister, especially for the coming year in which we will be on the United Nations Security Council. How does the Minister intend to shape the allocation of this fund? The CDA hopes that the increase will become meaningful and that the money will also be used for Article 18, the promotion of religious freedom. So that is also the example of those vulnerable groups. Because the CDA really expects a lot of that in the coming years, including this minister. The fight against ISIS is an important factor in this and also against other dangerous terrorist groups such as Al-Nusra and Al-Qaeda. How do we deal with returning ISIS fighters in the Netherlands? That is a very specific question to this Minister. The recognition of ISIS genocide on Christians, Jezidis and other minorities is necessary. On this basis, we can not only arrest and bring to justice returning ISIS fighters, but also recognise genocide requires us to do something about it. Here, too, the CDA expects a lot from this minister in the coming period. We have another response from the Minister to the opinion on the use of the term "genocide." We will certainly debate that further. But given the importance, we expect the Minister's response as soon as possible. With regard to the ISIS fighters, Madam President, the Minister can also get straight to work. Unfortunately, the Minister's letter on the commitment of the Netherlands to the Security Council does not say anything about this. The Minister will probably say something about that. And if he doesn't, we'll ask him again in the second instance. In view of the importance of the issue, it is wise that the Court should perhaps also make a ruling on how to deal with these ISIS fighters. That is why I am considering a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u147	Mrs. Ploumen. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u148	I'm a Christian myself. I was raised with the adage "love your neighbor like yourself and especially do so without regard to the person." Of course, I agree with Mr Van Helvert that human rights violations need to be addressed. But I thought it was a little strange that he only focused on one particular group, while we see so much injustice in the world. The minister himself mentioned the Rohingya in Myanmar. How does Mr Van Helvert see that? Shouldn't such a Human Rights Fund be used much wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u149	I like that question coming. I therefore began by saying that we regard Article 18 as extremely important from the CDA. This makes no distinction between those who are oppressed, discriminated against or persecuted when it comes to freedom of conscience, faith and religion. That's about everyone. I saw the examples that were mentioned. "Christians" is a new example. They weren't there yet. We are very pleased that it contains this example, because it is the largest group. When I look at the debates over the last four years, one way or another the largest group was very often not mentioned. That is why I think it is very good that they are there, because that is the largest group. Christians, 215 million people, are the largest group in the world persecuted for their beliefs. That is why it is right that we should take this as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u150	I am glad to find Mr Van Helvert on my side when we are about to call on the Minister for a balanced distribution of the Human Rights Fund among oppressed people around the world. It's a good thing we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u151	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u152	Oh, yeah. May I respond very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u153	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u154	That's quite right, even when you're talking about the Rohingya, which Mrs Ploumen mentioned. Because 600,000 Rohingya are just on the run. But it is also good to know that 3.2 million Christians are also oppressed in that same country. It's the same as the Muslims. That is why I am very pleased that Mrs Ploumen also says that we must stand up for all these minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u155	Mr Van Helvert has just shown himself to be rather involved in the issue of genocide. That is why I wanted to ask him a question about a passage in the coalition agreement and how the CDA deals with it. I am referring to a motion adopted two and a half years ago, with the support of the CDA. In that motion, the government was asked to stop talking about "the issue of the Armenian genocide" but "the Armenian genocide." That motion was adopted with the support of the CDA, for which I am grateful. That means that the Chamber has said to the government: do not talk about an issue on which you can still disagree; no, you say with that motion: there was an Armenian genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u156	Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u157	Now I'm going to go to that passage in the coalition agreement, which I'm going to read out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u158	Depends on how big that passage is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u159	Those are two rules, but I would like to read them very precisely. The coalition agreement states that "Leidening in the recognition of genocides are for the Dutch government judgments of international courts or criminal courts, unambiguous conclusions following scientific research and findings by the UN." And now my question to the CDA: does this mean that your position of two and a half years ago that there was an Armenian genocide, which is certain, can be affected again if there are judges, scientists or institutions who say they have doubts about that genocide?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u160	I have already said that there is no ambiguity for the CDA as to whether genocide has taken place there. But whether I say that, a political party or a number of MPs, is a matter other than whether a government says so. For us there is no doubt about that, but for a government that is another matter. That is why we are so pleased that we have asked for advice on this term 'genocide'. Who can call a genocide and who can't? Is it a matter of judges or is a parliament or a government allowed to do so? We have that advice. We have asked the Minister again for a response on this matter. That is why I said just now in my speech that we are waiting for that response, and we hope that it will come soon, given the importance. Then we will debate it. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would ask Mr De Roon to wait together for that response from the Minister, so that we can enter into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u161	Short, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u162	After a long story I have to be short; I will try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u163	You've been with your interruption for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u164	That is true, but the subject deserves some attention. It thus essentially means that the CDA, which, as a group, has signed that coalition agreement, is now abandoning that earlier position "there is an Armenian genocide." It could be that the scientific research and the case law show that there are doubts about it. So you yourself have already distanced yourself from your position two and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u165	Well, I actually felt that I explained very transparently and clearly that it was not a question of doubt for us and that we still do. Whether a person, a political party or a number of MPs says so is something other than whether a cabinet or a government can acknowledge it. This will be the subject of a debate. I said to Mr De Roon: let's do this together, because it is good to wait for the Minister's response as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u166	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u167	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on the mailing network. As a small country, with a large foreign country, the Netherlands has an interest in active engagement across the border. There are many challenges, interests and values to defend. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the postal network must be equipped to do so. The AIV made it clear that, in their view, there are considerable bottlenecks, while this coalition is saying: let's invest more in them. The government agreement provides for an additional structural budget of up to EUR 40 million. With this, the government agreement invests in Defence, in Development Cooperation and in the postal network. The CDA believes that this is a good thing. We are curious as to how the Minister intends to implement it and what priorities he sets, because in the event of scarcity, choices must always be made. The government agreement on consular services is also ambitious. The Netherlands wants to become a frontrunner in this area and there will be a 24/7 counter abroad where Dutch people can go abroad for all services abroad. I hope that it will be easier to apply for and send ballots in good time, because this has been the last time that everything has gone wrong. Maybe the Minister can respond to that. The CDA asks the Minister to speed up the digitalisation of the application procedure for passports and identity cards. For example, can the Edinburgh pilot be rolled out to Canada and Australia? At what time does the Minister expect to be able to report progress on this? Mr. Chairman. In view of what has been written in the budget about the use of the cabinet, I would like to make a number of comments on what our group considers to be very important in addition to the points mentioned above and on which we would like to share our concerns with the Minister in relation to the budget. Because geopolitics is all the way back, superpowers regularly face each other and new powers make their appearance. We are also dealing with an aggressive Russia at our borders. I just returned from a visit to the Baltic Council and they experience the impressive behavior of a neighbor every day. Last week, Estonia's Minister for Foreign Affairs openly wondered: what is Russia's goal, where do they really want to go? Last week, the AIV stated in an opinion that the Baltic countries are very weak. How does the Minister intend to shape the relationship with Russia? The United States, to name but another great power, is also questioning abroad's contribution to world stability as the statements of the elected President have become less predictable. With regard to NATO, this President spoke strictly to the Member States on the east side of the Atlantic, and Trump, of course, has a point. But the AIV warned last week that NATO had never been so weak since the Cold War, while threats and challenges have increased. Is the Minister also shocked by that analysis of the AIV or is it not correct? In this coalition agreement, the Netherlands is paying an extra EUR 1.5 billion for defence and we are thus increasing to the European average, but we are far from achieving the agreed 2% standard. In addition to money, more European cooperation is needed and the CDA supports participation in PESCO, but on the condition that it is not at the expense of NATO. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this point. Then I come to speak about our neighbour Venezuela, which may also be on the table of the United Nations Security Council. The unrest in Venezuela is worrying and our neighbour is led by the elected President Maduro who acts as a dictator. Last Monday, the EU approved an arms embargo against Venezuela and sanctions. The CDA has been advocating this for a long time. According to the Minister, do these sanctions go far enough? People understandably flee and arrive first in our Kingdom because Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire are there off the coast. The Secretary of State for the Interior has already indicated that the Coast Guard is being strengthened with the funds described in the government agreement. Maduro, like his predecessor, speaks aggressive language towards the United States. The predecessor of Maduro has also mentioned a war with the United States in which our islands could be used as a springboard. Now I see that not one-two-three happen but the tension is in the air and Maduro drives his country towards bankruptcy and then towards Moscow. Is it true that there is a deal under way whereby Russia can use Venezuelan ports in exchange for a loan with its Navy? That is a geopolitical development of great importance. How's the government in this? I would also like to share the concerns about the Middle East. A number of things have already been said about it. The situation in the Middle East is very restless and even explosive. Here too, we must pay attention to the fact that indifference does not come around the corner. The situation in the Middle East, where the origins of many civilizations rest, remains of great importance for the stability of the world. Many battles against ISIS have been won but the war is far from over and ideology is not yet defeated. Attacks continue, even in Europe and many refugees retreat back to their destroyed villages and cities in the valley of Ninevé. But are they safe there now, for how long and who controls or guarantees that? The situation of the Kurds in Iraq calls for our attention. The Kurds are not only our allies in the fight against ISIS, refugees who are being received by Kurds are safe and human rights, women's rights and Article 18 do represent something for them. Despite the fact that the referendum for the Autonomous Community was not handy, I urge the Minister to send the signal to Baghdad to stop the military display of power by the Iraqi army. Mr President, then Iran's nuclear programme. The United States is threatening the atomic deal...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u168	Mrs Karabulut apparently has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u169	Let's talk about the Middle East. The government agreement, in particular the new foreign policy, aims to stop terrorism, provide more security and dry up the flow of refugees. What do you think of the results of 16 years of war against terrorism? Is the way we are now operating an effective policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u170	That is the same question you asked Mr Ten Broeke, and I could also give the same answer, namely that there has certainly been some progress. But is the war over, is there no more suffering, suffering there no more people, is there peace there? No, absolutely not. Does that mean we shouldn't do anything? No, Madam President. I think we need to look very clearly for tackling ISIS fighters; I said that very, very clearly. I think that is very important because, as I have just said, Article 18, which is, by the way, extremely important for the Kurds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u171	Of course doing nothing is not an option, but I asked Mr Van Helvert what he thinks of the result so far. For 16 years there have been billions, billions, billions of euros pumped into all kinds of wars in the Middle East, with the result that we have more attacks here, that there are millions of people fleeing, that there are more terrorist groups, that there is more Islamic terror. Then what's your conclusion? Should we continue to do so for 16 years, or should we ask ourselves whether this is the right strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u172	We always do. I can't share a few assumptions directly. Nor can I always share the fact that it is always the result of the other, as Mrs Karabulut puts it in a row. We certainly can't say and prove that in the first place. It is true that war always brings out the worst in people, but we will sometimes have to take part in hostilities in the given situation, including with our army.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u173	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u174	We can prove that. Defense is certainly not the only cause, but it is a very important cause. A lot of research has been done, including American research, with hard facts as a result. The number of fighters is now at 100,000, but was around 20,000, 30,000 in 2001. The number of Islamic terror groups has also increased. An important motivation for terrorism is occupation policy. Perhaps it is possible that this is the only thing I want to give ourselves a mirror on the political policy of, for example, an illegal war in Iraq, which has enabled IS to emerge. Could you do that: just reflect on these results?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u175	War always brings out the worst in man. That is why we are fighting with our power for those who are oppressed and persecuted to bring them to safety. They're peace missions. It is absolutely true that there are atrocities and atrocities there. What Mrs Karabulut says, of course, sounds fantastic: let's all stop fighting. That would be fantastic. But that it would all be over if we took all our people, with the entire coalition, with all the Allies, away now, is really not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u176	Proceed, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u177	I was talking about the atomic deal with Iran, which this minister has also made statements about in a previous role. The US is threatening to cancel that atomic deal; the EU compliments Iran. Who's right, anyway? The then VVD group chairman spoke of an historic error in April, but how does the Minister view it? How does the Minister assess the reports that Iran would continue its nuclear programme through North Korea? In addition, Iran continues to violate UN Resolution 2231 on ballistic missile development. The French President, Mr Macron, also wants to curb Iran's ballistics programme and calls for sanctions. Does the Minister support Macron on this point? By the way, those Iranian missiles were fired from Yemen on Saudi Arabia, if we can believe the Americans and Saudis. This leads to a high level of tension between the two countries. This will also be on the Minister's sign and the UN Security Table. How does this minister look at this atomic deal and the consequences so far? Mr. Chairman. Turkey, our NATO ally, spoke openly with Russia about the installation of Russian missiles in Turkey. Erdogan's aggressive language towards the Netherlands, the human rights situation in Turkey, I say to Mrs Ploumen and others: I am thinking, among other things, of the situation of Armenian Christians, the Turkish division of society that is perplexing to Dutch society, they are all factors that contribute to growing care. Although you could say that you do not want anything to do with Turkey, Turkey is of course the neighbour of Europe, a member of NATO and a trading partner of the Netherlands. How is the Minister going to get on with the relationship with Turkey in the near future? The European Union is finally going to cut back on the pre-accessive aid that Turkey receives from the EU every year. EUR 80 million will be cut. I believe that 50 million will be cut and 30 million frozen.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's very little. The CDA says that you should stop the pre-accession support completely now. Does the Minister agree with us and is he prepared to argue for this in the EU? A very big problem that will also come to the UN security table is the flow of migration towards Europe. The coalition agreement is very clear on this approach. Reception in the region, strong external borders of Europe and migration agreements with countries must keep the flow manageable. Combating the root causes of migration flows is more important in the long term. The commitment of development cooperation is necessary. The CDA is for a root-stick approach. It is important that countries are also kept to agreements. The Netherlands, for example, has been active with military personnel in Mali since 2014. Mali also receives development aid: the root. It is not possible that Mali would never cooperate with the return of its own nationals. And then a tap with the stick would be in place. That is, of course, Madam President. Addressing the root causes of the large migration flow is the main task for the UN and Europe for the coming years. The Minister has an opportunity to contribute to this. How's it look in here? Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of Suriname. The Netherlands has a strong relationship with Suriname. Not only the past ensures that we will be connected forever, also the many family ties and circle of friends that cross the ocean, make us feel involved in Suriname. At government level, that band is not so strong at the moment. The fact that the current elected President Bouterse is facing a long prison sentence for involvement in the December murders makes constructive consultation very difficult. Dutch interest in Suriname is dismissed as meddling. The fact that Bouterse has indicated that he only has to answer to God, and not to the judge, doesn't make it any easier. Edoch, our friends and family in Suriname suffer no less. There is both an economic and a medical crisis in progress. Food prices are very high, and that is a very bad sign. While Bouterse himself goes abroad for his medical interventions, Surinamese hospitals and doctors suffer from a lack of all medical resources: gloves, medicines, sterile material and so on. If the government does not accept the help of the Netherlands, then we may have to help Suriname counterparts through Dutch hospitals and agencies. Can the Minister indicate how the government could deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would ask the Minister to address the above points with all the strength, knowledge and skill this year. There are, of course, many forms of diplomacy. This minister will sometimes have to dance tightrope and sometimes have to work with a ram, and everything in between. Let the minister be the hand, often outside the eye of the spectator, who does the important work. The Chamber will certainly remain the hand that continues to portray to everyone what we think is important, for the Netherlands and for the world. And then let the debate with each other form the body. Let that be the artist of Chiplun who then connects both hands again. Now, of course, the left hand does not always need to know what the right hand is doing, but basically we promised the voter that we would control the minister. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. I wish the Minister every success in the coming year, especially at the UN Security Council table. I wish him every success, starting with the first answer, but that certainly also applies to the important issues such as tackling ISIS fighters and using the Human Rights Fund for Article 18 against persecution of faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u178	I did not want to limit the number of interruptions, but I see that there is really a lot of interruptions, and also in threes. So now I really appeal to you to be brief and do the interruptions in half. First Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u179	Is the CDA Group still opposed to modernising nuclear weapons in the Netherlands? Are you still against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u180	I shall come back to that in the second instance. If I say something now that I may not have prepared very well, maybe I'm saying it wrong. So I'd like to come back to it in a second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u181	Fine. Then I would like to tell you that that was the case and that it went very actively to the Americans,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u182	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u183	... that a letter from your colleague, Mr Knops, has been handed over that I am going to propose once again not to do so and that I count on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u184	Mr Van Helvert will return in the second term. Mr De Roon, or was it Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u185	Does Mr Van Helvert know the expression "soft healers make stinking wounds"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u186	That's a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u187	And a rhetorical one, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u188	I'll take that as a yes. Now I hear Mr Van Helvert pleading for the resumption of development aid to Surinam because of the poor economic conditions and all the consequences. Well, during the last ten years of elections in Suriname by parties that have not managed to form a majority, there has been constant warnings that it is going in the wrong direction under the direction of Mr. Bouterse: "We should not do that, he is making a mess of it and will destroy the country." Yet the voters have again elected by majority, over and over again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u189	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u190	...for Bouterse and his party. Do you see now that your plea for redevelopment aid to Suriname actually means that you say again "let's treat those stinking wounds with even more nonsense"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u191	Two things. First of all, it is true that voters sometimes vote for someone who does very rough language and says harsh things, when people know quite well that he is not going to solve it. That happens sometimes, also in Suriname. That's true. Secondly, we are dealing with people with whom we have family ties, friends in Suriname. We can't just leave it there. So it is different from the structural solution of the problem in Suriname, but we have to deal with the acute medical and humanitarian crisis that is going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u192	My question was about the issue of migration and the coalition agreement. My question to Mr Van Helvert is whether people crossing the Mediterranean on the run from war and violence are still entitled to asylum in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u193	They can follow the process for that. As stated in the coalition agreement, this can in principle be done in different ways, but we say that you could send them back to a safe haven in Africa, where they are waiting for the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u194	And could Mr Van Helvert perhaps mention some of those safe ports that people go back to? So they no longer apply for asylum in Europe, I understand, but in a safe haven in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u195	They can apply for it and wait for it in a safe situation, but now you're unlocking this part. We are in favour of tackling the root causes of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u196	So are we.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u197	We consider this to be far more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u198	Yeah, so do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u199	And you can apply for asylum in different ways. Let's put that first. You can do that if you come into Europe from any country. Then you can just apply for asylum. But just for this particular situation, to let Central and also North Africa know that we do not want the flow of boats across the Mediterranean, we really need to be very clear about it. I think that is what you want, because you do not want people to take the risk of crossing the Mediterranean with a small boat. That's why we're gonna have to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u200	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u201	That's exactly why I'm trying to get that clarity. Can people who cross the Mediterranean from North Africa flee from war or violence still apply for asylum in Europe, let us say: in the area of the European Union, as is the case now? Or are they going back to Africa and are they going to have to apply for asylum in a safe haven, whatever that port is? That's exactly what I'm looking for. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u202	To apply for asylum in Europe, that is possible. The procedure is being conducted while you wait in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u203	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u204	Oh, nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u205	You're talking about that statue, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u206	Yes, how Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik stand there. It's just the left-wing partnership. They want to hold my hand, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u207	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u208	Mr. Chairman. Permanent instability and conflicts in the ring around Europe. A Middle East on fire. More refugees than ever since World War II. Increasing terrorism. A climate crisis with more and more victims. Human rights and democracy under attack. Bitter poverty amidst extreme wealth. They are all illustrations of the turbulent, sometimes not very hopeful times in which we live. The good news is that a lot of crises have been caused by people and can therefore be solved by people. I have high expectations of the Minister. Against this background, we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is the first budget discussion for this new minister. The debate is, of course, also about the coalition agreement. We have a lot of questions about that. But first, I would like to ask the Minister, what are you standing for? Of course, you have said and written a few things. This was more or less summarised as follows: protecting our own region by doing business with dictators. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true and what that means in concrete terms. Are we going to give pockets of money to wrong regimes if they stop people on the run? Are we going to allow people to be traded as slaves in Libya? Or does the Minister embrace the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? So what place do our rights, the rights of ordinary people, here and elsewhere in the world have human rights in this minister's foreign policy? Mr. Chairman. In VVD circles and in the media it is claimed that the minister ended up in a dasha of Russian President Putin with the top man of the Dutch Shell, Jeroen van der Veer. We've heard about him before in relation to Rutte III cabinet. The story is that Halbe Zijlstra was allowed to ride in the backseat. Since then, he has been aspiring to become Minister of Foreign Affairs; that is also the story. Anyway, I would like to congratulate this Minister. He did it. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of Russia, this morning the Minister of the Interior came up with a big and worrying story about unwanted influence by the Russians in the Netherlands. Can the Minister tell us how this is happening and what measures are being taken to prevent it from happening? Is the Minister also willing to use good contacts with the Russians to de-escalate? I think the Minister agrees with me that the new cold war we are experiencing in Europe or a war with the Russians is totally unrealistic for peace and security in Europe. Mr. Chairman. Those who are still familiar with the Foreign Minister as chairman of the VVD's political group know that his many people know that everything in his mind is about preventing terrorist attacks and keeping refugee flows in Europe manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u209	I was just talking about the word "de-escalating." I think everyone would very much like to normalize relations with Russia, but my group does not think that it is the circumstances. I ask Mrs Karabulut: under what conditions can there be de-escalation with Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u210	I don't know. That's gonna have to show the conversation. All I would wish for is that we don't push for even harder relationships. Of course, the Russians have illegally annexed Crimea. Sanctions have been imposed. Spying on the Russians. They do all kinds of things we don't want to do. However, I believe that a military response, further militarisation of Europe and the advance towards the east, towards the borders of the Russians, can never provide a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u211	This isn't exactly an answer. As far as the 'further militarisation of Europe' is concerned, NATO exercises in Eastern Europe have been rigged as a result of large-scale troop movements in Russia to the Eastern European border. My question was: under what conditions can there be de-escalation? I would hope that Mrs Karabulut had said here that it has to be done in two, I understand from the President of the Council: 'It can only be done if the Minsk peace agreement is fully but fully implemented'. There is no such thing at the moment. A dialogue: fine. But normalizing seems very unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u212	That seems obvious to me. Of course, I totally agree with that, but you have to start that conversation for that too. If they send troops to the border, and if we do, then we're heading for a new cold war and perhaps a confrontation that neither you nor I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u213	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u214	Mr. Chairman. The war on terror. As I said, the Minister wants to prevent terrorist attacks and keep the flow of refugees manageable. My question is, how does this aim relate to the war on terror? This was unleashed by George W. Bush after the horrific attacks of September 11, 2001 in New York. Al-Qaeda and similar organisations had to be dealt with once and for all. It led to military action against Afghanistan, where more than 10,000 NATO troops are still present. It also led to the illegal war in Iraq from 2003. Since then, all kinds of secret wars have been waged, for example in Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia. The favorite weapon there is the unmanned but armed aircraft: the drones. After an earlier withdrawal of their troops, the Americans were forced, due to the rise of the Islamic State, to bomb Iraq again in 2014 and later Syria as well. More than 16 years after the start of this war against terrorism, it should be noted that there is no prospect of an end. The war on terror has become permanent despite previous claims that it is a mission accomplished. It's infinite. My party, the SP, is very concerned about that. This war is counterproductive and most of all destroys a lot. Does the Minister share our concerns? The war on terror is counterproductive, because after sixteen years of war, on which millions of dollars are spent, there are not less but much more terrorist attacks, including against the West, something that the minister and we all want to avoid. Also, Al-Qaeda and similar organisations have not been reported and have often become stronger, for example in Syria. The war on terrorism has failed. Moreover, this war is causing immense suffering, especially in the countries where the American bombs are coming down. A report by several medical organizations a few years ago estimated that between 1 and 2 million deaths were caused by this American action and the violence that followed. In addition, organisations such as Airwars report on the large number of civilian casualties. The many hundreds of thousands of refugees, also due to the war on terror, are often unable to go home. This is something that affects, first and foremost, the people themselves who are on the run. Secondly, this applies to neighbouring countries and, finally, we all see the consequences of it. How does this minister assess the fact that, after more than 16 years of war, there is not less but much more terrorism? How does he explain that? What is the Minister's view of reports on large numbers of civilian casualties as a result of this war on terror? Does the Minister share my concern that President Trump will continue to step up this counterproductive war on terror in all areas? What relationship does the Minister see between Western military action and refugee flows in the region? Can the Minister guarantee that any solution that the cabinet will propose to address the refugee crisis will be in line with international law? Can the Minister also comment on the funding from Gulf states, such as Saudi Arabia, of religious institutions, including in the Netherlands, which is spreading ideas used by attackers to justify their own actions? How is this cabinet going to act against this? Mr. Chairman. Then Iran. I understand now that the Minister wants to explain what I just meant. I was referring to the funding of religious institutions from the Gulf States that spread that extremist belief, which we have been wanting to stop for years. How's the Minister gonna do that? Then Iran. We went there a while back with a number of members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. President Trump has recently taken a life-threatening path claiming against the facts that Iran would not comply with the agreement on that country's nuclear programme. It is now waiting for the time when the US finally throws the deal in the wastebasket, for example by reintroducing sanctions. That would be a historic mistake, because the deal that restricts the country's nuclear programme makes the world safer. Anyone reading an opinion paper by MP Zijlstra from 2015 when the deal was in progress can only conclude that the US President's actions can count on the approval of the then MP, who is now Minister. I very much hope that I am wrong and that Minister Zijlstra will join the international community and fight like a lion to keep the deal with Iran. It is my party's fear that if this deal is blown up, it can easily lead to even more war in a region that already has far too much of it. Moreover, negotiations with North Korea will certainly not be easier. Can the Minister respond to this? During our visit to Iran it also appeared that giving up this deal would mean not helping the Iranians forward, but especially the ayatollahs, the conservative forces in the country. Also not insignificant with everything we say we want to achieve. This frontal attack by the Americans on the diplomatic success of Iran is taking place against the backdrop of rapidly rising tensions in the Middle East and beyond. The stakes are influenced by countries like the US, becoming more assertive Russia, but also Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey and Iran. The main battlefields are Iraq and Syria, but now Lebanon. Who gets the lead, that is the use of the dangerous geopolitical game and I ask the Minister about his analysis of the development in the region. Can he comment specifically on the bizarre developments in Lebanon? I'm sure we've all been following it. That is where the Prime Minister is apparently now under house arrest, or rather: villa arrest, placed in Saudi Arabia. How can the Netherlands contribute to the much-needed de-escalation in this region? Mr. Chairman. My next point concerns the gruesome war in Yemen, where Saudi Arabia is sowing death and destruction with western weapons on an unprecedented scale. A conflict that cannot be separated from the geopolitical power struggle in the region. Over 10,000 people have been killed and millions have been forced to flee home by this violence. The humanitarian crisis is unprecedented. I don't know about you, but if I click those pictures, I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed of humanity, I'm ashamed of letting this happen. The international community stands by and looks at it. It is an ally of one of the most important allies of the Netherlands who simply does this with the partners. Mr. Chairman. Saudi Arabia can still count on arms supplies from the US. Arms deliveries from the United Kingdom have increased by hundreds of percent since that war, just like those from a number of other EU countries. Then, in my view, you are morally bankrupt, especially when you say you want to bring freedom and democracy elsewhere. So, Mr President, this can and should no longer be accepted: on the one hand murder and fire screaming about growing salafism, on the other hand radical Islamists feed on political deals and weapons. A disgrace. Does this Minister agree with me that the Netherlands should not export arms to Saudi Arabia and other countries that are now destroying Yemen? Does the Minister see opportunities for the Netherlands? I hope to raise this issue in the UN Security Council when the Netherlands is in it next year? Does this Yemeni minister want to make a priority in the Security Council? Does the Minister see any possibility of taking initiatives to put an end to the useless bloodshed or at least to bring it closer? I know it's not that easy. That brings me to Israel and Palestine. The coalition agreement states that the Netherlands is committed to achieving and maintaining the two-state solution. That is a good thing. But because of the continued occupation of Palestinian territory, the blockade of Gaza, the expansion of illegal settlements and the expulsion of Palestinians from their homeland, Israel is unfortunately standing in the way of this two-state solution at the moment. How does the Minister view that? How can the Netherlands and the EU make a concrete contribution to the two-state solution? What will the Netherlands do if Israel continues to expand illegal settlements? How is it prevented from contributing directly or indirectly to the conservation of settlements? What can the Netherlands do, or actually do, to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Gaza? How does this minister view the recognition of Palestine? Please respond to all these questions. From Palestine and Israel to Morocco. It is now over a year since the horrific death of a fish merchant, Mohsin Fikri, in Morocco led to continued protests against the marginalisation, exclusion and discrimination of the inhabitants of the Rif and against the endemic corruption in that country. Just a fight for social justice, for democracy, for freedom and for equal rights. But by now, hundreds of protesters are incarcerated. Years of prison sentences are hanging over their heads. I've been there this summer. I have spoken to many families, women, children and mothers who have to travel hundreds of miles every weekend under harsh conditions to see their sons and their husbands. Earlier, the minister's predecessor said that if it succeeded, the Netherlands would attend the trials. Can the Minister indicate if this is happening? Does the Netherlands insist on releasing the political prisoners? Can it also be addressed to what extent the accusation of abuse, even torture, is being seriously addressed in Morocco, and I also hear stories about the rape of these prisoners? Is this seriously being investigated, are those responsible being punished or is impunity still the norm I have encountered in Morocco? This is a very important point for all those people who are committed to democratisation of Morocco and to equal rights. Is the Minister prepared to contact his Moroccan colleague to express his concerns? I can tell the Minister that it is not an exaggeration that many young people at the moment want to leave Morocco for Europe because they have no perspective. The battle that is going on in the Rif is a battle for a better future, a job, a university, a hospital. In Turkey, where everything is wrong, President Erdogan is campaigning hard against freedom of the press. The fugitive journalist Can Dündar recently spoke about this in the Lower House. He believes that European countries can contribute through greater commitment on this issue. I saw that the members of the coalition parties also want to use the increase in the Human Rights Fund to promote the freedom of the press of foreign journalists. I ask whether this can also be used for journalists who have had to flee their country. I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to draw attention to nuclear weapons. Recently, two thirds of the Member States of the United Nations agreed to a nuclear ban treaty. Against the backdrop of high-level tensions between the United States and North Korea, that treaty is not a day too early. Unfortunately, the Netherlands voted against, partly because NATO obligations would stand in the way. I call on the Minister to reconsider that position. I read in the coalition agreement that this minister wants to work for a nuclear-free world. If the cabinet wants to make credible work of its own policy, then it has to act. For far too long this has not happened and the Netherlands has been hiding behind NATO, which is not necessary at all. In the Netherlands, we know, there have been American nuclear weapons for decades. The United States has decided to invest many billions to modernise these and other nuclear weapons, making them easier to deploy. This while everyone knows that the use of nuclear weapons is by definition illegal, because they cannot distinguish between military targets and civilian targets. The Red Cross points to that, too. For this modernisation, and that's the good news, the nuclear weapons have to go back to the US. According to my party, the SP, this is a good reason for this minister to give the commitment to a nuclear-free world too. Just be realistic, solve it. Let those silly things in the United States, I'd like to introduce this minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u215	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u216	Mr President, the budget debate is of course also intended to give a voice to those who are not being heard. In this case, I must convey the request of several journalists that they do see bread at dinner break. I hope that my input can at least serve as a nutritious appetizer. Mr President, the budgetary treatment of Foreign Affairs is often a debate of great words, ideals and views on the world around us. I can reassure you: I do not intend to deviate from that tradition. Before I start, I would like to address myself briefly to the new Foreign Minister, whom I would like to congratulate again. I am sure he will feel at home in this Chamber and in this committee. After all, he is a man who in the past also wanted to express his vision of the world, sometimes in a few pages and sometimes with a few big words. I think that, of course, is positive. A VVD'er with a vision, I like that! I do not know whether it will be a Van der Stoel after Mr Ten Broeke's reading or through Mrs Ploumen's reading, but I do wish this Minister to make the desirable more feasible. Mr. Chairman. Then back to those big words, the ideals and the visions. Maybe first of all, the good news. 'Cause you'd get almost bleak from what we've all heard, but actually the world has never been as prosperous and developed as it is now. Extreme poverty and hunger are reduced as never before. Never did we get older. The number of children going to school is historically high and the number of countries where you can love people you want to love grows like cabbage. But with so much news, of course, there is also bad news. At the heart of it is the fact that all this progress is at stake at the moment, due to a threatening climate disaster, a torn Middle East and a refugee crisis. Then I'm not even talking about Trump, who's made an art out of unpredictability. Or about Putin, who is trying to increase his influence on us visibly and invisible. Or the United Kingdom, which threatens to dive into the abyss with the Brexit. I'm drawing three lessons from that. Lesson one is: we have to keep our own pants. Lesson 2 is: we will have to be more European than ever. And lesson three is, we have to keep fighting for our values. Mr. Chairman. Hold your own pants. It is crucial that we invest in foreign policy. That is why I am proud that this coalition agreement, after times of austerity, invests enormously in Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Defence. Nearly two billion a year. That's just important if you want to have something to say in the world, if you want to defend our values and interests. Stopping our own pants also means having our services to Dutch people in order. About one million Dutch live across the border. Despite the choice of these people to live abroad, the Netherlands remains their home country for many of them. These entrepreneurs and development workers, these benefactors and world travelers deserve support from the Dutch government. Not only do they raise money in the Netherlands, they are also a business card. The coalition agreement underlines this importance. Dutch schools abroad receive money, vote in elections will be easier, the adoption of a dual nationality will be easier and the consular services will be improved. But still a few more questions to this minister to put a tooth on them. 1. When does this minister expect the digitisation of document edition to be complete, as proposed last year by Mr Ten Broeke and myself in the Sjoerdsma amendment? This prevents far travels of Dutch people who do not live close to an embassy or consulate. 2. When does the Minister expect to be able to clarify the onestop shop for Dutch people abroad? 3. The Dutch abroad are spread across the entire coalition agreement. That is good, but I wonder whether it would not be wise to take the lead here too and develop real policies for Dutch people abroad, for example in a real note or perhaps in a diasporanotie as is the case in Ireland. 4. In recent years, my group has worked hard for the money for the postal network. The coalition agreement also states it, for which I am grateful. I also understand that the money has not yet been allocated, but I ask the Minister when we can receive a letter so that we can have a good discussion about our diplomatic presence worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u217	A brief question, Mr. Van Oijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u218	Mr Sjoerdsma is proud of the extra money to invest in the diplomatic service. I can imagine that very well. But Mr Ten Broeke has just explained to us that the new commerciality also means that you no longer have any money for some things. I asked him to give examples, and he did. Before I mention them all, I would like to know what Mr Sjoerdsma thought of these examples. Does he agree that, in the context of this new business, support should be given to organisations fighting the death penalty, the rights of Igbti, or to tax avoidance by multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u219	That's a good question. I think we should split that into two things: having an impact on the one hand and the universality of human rights on the other. Let me start with that impact. This coalition agreement makes the clear, and I think it is right, choice to move the focus geographically towards the ring around Europe. That's a pretty broad ring, I'd like to add. That choice has been made. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and this Minister will be given room to look again at those focus countries and to ensure that we not only promote our principles, but that we do so in places where that impact can have. I think that's important. Then I come to human rights, because that is what Mr Ten Broeke was talking about. He was talking about projects from the Human Rights Fund. I think it is very important that human rights are universal. I am not going to preside over a queen of human rights who would be above other human rights; let it be said. So I understand a number of examples from Mr Ten Broeke. I understand that consumer protection in Belarus is not the greatest concern of the Belarusians. But when he talks about the death penalty in the United States, I think that is quite useful. That is not because the United States necessarily needs money for such a project on the death penalty, but because I think that such a project can help if, for example, you want to have a dialogue with Russia about it that you do not talk unilaterally to people on the death penalty. It may then help to bring about a more uniform form of dialogue. That's gonna cost you some money. I do not think there is a very great difference of opinion in principle on this issue. This is something Mr Ten Broeke has been saying for years and I have been saying for years: well, let us do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u220	I do not know if it is a fundamental difference of opinion. I asked Mr Ten Broeke to give examples of the new relevance and he came up with these examples. I'd say, of course, they're peanuts. That is nothing on a billion-dollar budget, but it is a lot for these organisations. I could just imagine that SOMO people are watching this debate and thinking: will I not get a grant later, as Mr Ten Broeke wants, or will I get a grant later, as D66 might want? What would Mr Sjoerdsma say to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u221	I think this is a bit of a silly game, because Mr Van Ojik has just mentioned that Mr Ten Broeke or VVD organisations would like to subsidise, but not GroenLinks organisations. I'm not the grantor, and I'm not the grantor. I am the one who controls the frameworks within which these subsidies are provided. If that goes according to those frameworks, I can give my consent and my task of control is fulfilled. But I am not going to say here: with regard to SOMO, Mr Ten Broeke is wrong; I cannot agree to this, or I can agree to it, and the Minister should listen to it. That's what the Secretary of State is about. Personally, from my party political conviction, I would hope that SOMO's colleagues know that they are appreciated, but it is up to the Minister to shape that within the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u222	No, I'm not giving you the floor, Mr. Van Ojik, because we agreed to do the interruptions in two. Proceed, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u223	I'm sure Mrs Ploumen will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u224	No, this is your fifth interruption, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u225	Mrs Ploumen may be interrupting, because this is her first plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u226	Yeah, that's why! You're very modest, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u227	I have a very brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u228	I'll hold you to that. A brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u229	We have now heard the veterans, Ten Broeke and Sjoerdsma, about this new commerciality, but they are actually getting no further than a conversation about whether or not some projects can or can't. My brief question is, therefore, what is Mr Sjoerdsma's view of this new commerciality, that vision that we are looking forward to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u230	Now we are in danger of getting caught up in a little misunderstanding, because this new commerciality is in the view of Mr Ten Broeke. Granted, he's brought that in. I am not advocating a new commercialism here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u231	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u232	It is interesting to hear from Mr Sjoerdsma how he, together with Mr Ten Broeke's party, managed to lay down a vision and a desire for the future in the coalition agreement, although they certainly do not seem to think the same about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u233	I am a little surprised by this question. If, in recent years, two parties were separated from each other and may have gone to life, but could still work together, then those were the parties of Mrs Ploumen and Mr Ten Broeke, respectively the Labour Party and the VVD. We work together with four parties on the coalition agreement. Mr Zijlstra may implement this as Minister. I can also tell you that I am proud of that coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u234	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u235	No, let me just say this, Madam President. I'm proud of that foreign paragraph. I am talking not only about the financial side of the matter, where I believe we are doing more than the previous Cabinets, but also about the direction we have given to the cabinet as four parties. I would like to add something to that, because I myself think that the objectives could have been even sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u236	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u237	It fits well in the rest of my speech: it could have been a bit sharper. Mr. Chairman. Then my second lesson. We will have to be more European than ever. I'd like to make a prediction here, though it's always dangerous. My prediction is that this minister will go into the history books as "the most European foreign minister ever." I can see you from the Chamber looking at "there you have that person of D66 again," but I'm not saying that because it's necessarily my dream. I'm saying it because I think it's a bitter necessity. If we want to solve the climate problem, the answer is the EU. Do we want to increase security? The EU. Creating jobs? The EU. Catching refugees? The EU. Defend our values? The EU. I'm also saying it because the momentum is there in Europe. Look at Macron and Merkel. The Netherlands simply cannot afford to see the future of the European Union dictated by a leading group that we ourselves do not belong to. I think this minister sees that, too. His signature is under PESCO. As far as I am concerned, that is a first and promising example. On the other hand, the European Union still has a great deal of credibility to gain. That is why two questions. One: does this minister want to ensure that the Dutch and French seats in the Security Council are filled out as much as European? And two: how is this minister going to work on a more credible arms export policy of the European Union, in accordance with the coalition agreement? Mr. Chairman. Even when it comes to Russia, the biggest threat to security on our European continent, the European Union is the answer. I personally get the creeps of people who think we should normalize relations now, without steps from Russia. I hear Mrs Karabulut protesting. I'm not talking about you, Mrs. Karabulut. Unfortunately, the person that this is about is not there, but perhaps he will make his own contribution. Normalize relations, while Russia tries to hack our elections, torment our airspace, have played a disastrous role in Syria and play a dubious role in MH17. That frustrates me most: Russia's attitude. Covering up radar footage, accusing MH17 investigators and deliberate delay. I would therefore like to know two things about this Minister. One: will he make every effort to maintain the sanctions, as long as the Minsk agreements have not been fully implemented? And two: what does he think of the Magnitsky acts, which are now being introduced in some countries, including in European countries? Very briefly on this part I go into the recent news of Raqqa. ISIS fighters and foreign fighters seem to have fled Raqqa. What does this minister know about that? Do they include European, Dutch or other foreign fighters? How is it handled? How do we get these people back in their sights as soon as possible and if possible prosecute them and bring them to justice? Mr. Chairman. My third class. We'll have to fight harder than ever for our ideals. Where the world around us is changing at a rapid pace, the Netherlands will benefit from a stable world order based on international law, mutual respect and free trade. This is a stable world order in which conflicts are settled through cooperation, in which countries that violate human rights are addressed and in which we conclude trade agreements because open trade contributes to progress worldwide. As far as we are concerned, Dutch foreign policy is aimed at defending the Dutch core values and interests and at promoting that legal order and human rights, with a contribution to security and predictability in the world. In particular, I would like our foreign policy to focus on combating the factors that disrupt people's security of existence: poverty, migration, terror and climate change. I ask this Minister how he sees it. What are his objectives for Dutch foreign policy? Of course, he has to be modest in that too.I understand that too, but I am still curious about that. When it comes to the ideals, I have the following points. Nuclear disarmament. I think it is wonderful that the Netherlands in New York talked about the treaty to get a ban. I understand that the Netherlands did not vote in favour, however disappointing that may be. I will ask the Minister what steps he sees to further nuclear disarmament. Can we talk about this bridge function, but can we not also make NATO-bonded members to our advantage? Can we not use Security Council membership to take this agenda a step further? I see Mrs Karabulut at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u238	I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u239	Yeah, but then we'll move on to really different subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u240	However, I would suggest that you do so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u241	Fine. Mr. Chairman. It is good that this cabinet is releasing additional resources for human rights worldwide. I do hope, with Mr Van Helvert, that this will be meaningful. I ask this Minister when we can look forward to the increase and whether he intends to come up with a human rights note. I should like to make a few more points myself. First of all, the Ihbti community. Homosexuality is allowed in more and more countries, but there are far too many countries where it is forbidden, where it is a problem and where lhbti are threatened, intimidated and arrested. My question to this minister is simple: how does he intend to strengthen the Dutch commitment in this area? And does he also see room to give extra attention to t and i, transgenders and intersexuals in this context? Because those are exactly the groups that are getting a little less attention around the world. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the group of non-believers. This is also a very vulnerable group, which is often forgotten about D66, but which fortunately appear well in the list of Mr Van Helvert. Their rights are being violated worldwide. In countries such as Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia, atheism is the death penalty. I would argue not only for the right to believe what you want, but also for the right to be free to believe nothing at all. My question to the Minister is also simple here: how does he intend to strengthen the Dutch commitment to non-believers? Mr. Chairman. A small regional trip in the field of human rights. Will this Minister promise that the Netherlands will continue to support human rights organisations in Israel and Palestine? They're under a lot of pressure right now. I would like to avoid that the reduction of funds or the reduction of aid can otherwise be seen as a signal that the Netherlands will restrict this aid. Mr. Chairman. As a last category, I would like to mention journalists. We all remember the images of James Foley who in 2014 was beheaded in cold blood by ISIS. Recently, Turkish journalist Can Dündar spoke in the Chamber, who has been fleeing the dictatorial regime of Erdogan for months. They were both punished for practicing their profession. Dutch journalists are also increasingly making the work impossible. Journalists are the defenders of free speech. Freedom of the press is a prerequisite for democracy. They are the canary in the coal mine and an indicator of the oxygen in society. I would therefore like to call for more help to journalists abroad and ask this minister to release funds from the Human Rights Fund for, for example, legal assistance, insurance or security training. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The challenge is to achieve a genuinely effective foreign policy, a unified European foreign policy to be a meaningful global player that the world cannot ignore. As far as my party was concerned, Europe remains the choice. I hope that this Minister for Foreign Affairs is committed to a united Europe in which the policy of the centre is the best alternative to populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u242	Thank you. A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u243	Yes. I doubt the latter. In fact, the facts show otherwise. But another time about that. My question concerns the nuclear weapons ban and the nuclear release of the Netherlands. In that you have always been a supporter, Mr Sjoerdsma. You still are? I can still count on your support to stop allowing these American nuclear weapons in the Netherlands after modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u244	You've seen the coalition agreement. There is a historical phrase in this, namely that the Netherlands is in favour of a nuclear-free world. I'm pretty proud of that. It also says, in commas, "in allergic relationships." When I look at the world and the threat emanating from Russia, I find that very important. So if you are talking about disarmament, you have my support. If you are talking about unilateral disarmament, you do not have my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u245	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u246	This is a different Mr Sjoerdsma than in all those debates before, at least on the basis of what I have read back. This is very unfortunate, because you were in favour of a nuclear weapons ban. You were against nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. Now you say: we are going to see what we are going to do within the existing limits. I would also like to tell you, Mr Sjoerdsma, that the threat from the United States of arms and proliferation is, in my view, far greater than you are suggesting with your one-sided remarks towards Russia at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u247	This isn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u248	Yes, there is a threat, but if you are aiming for a nuclear-free world, the answer can never be that these tensions are on the increase and that we are not signing the nuclear-weapon ban ourselves. You can't be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u249	That wasn't a question. You do not have to respond to it, Mr Sjoerdsma, but I see that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u250	Yes, I am going to respond, but you will also understand very well, Mr President, that this cannot be very short if there are five different insinuations in one remark, which I will all disprove each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u251	Yes, it can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u252	The first is that there is a different Sjoerdsma of D66 than before. I would like to say: call your colleague Van Bommel, Mrs Karabulut, and ask him again what kind of text I have had on this subject. It's improbably important that we do nuclear disarmament. That's unlikelyly important. Let us take the case of modernisation, which you mentioned as an example to Mr Van Helvert. These weapons will soon be modernised; that is the plan of the United States. Your plan is: leave them there; send those silly things back. I think that's a quote from former Minister Timmermans. That's good, but why don't you take that chance? I'm interested in that. Why do you not use that opportunity to say that if we are going to modernise those weapons and if they go back temporarily, is there any way to continue using them in a global disarmament deal? And is it possible to say: Russia, if you want to remove some weapons from Kaliningrad, are we also prepared to take those weapons out permanently? I think that's wise. If you say we're gonna modernise, they're gonna stay in America and we're gonna look away from what Russia's doing in Kaliningrad... Yes, Mrs Karabulut looks away from that. She also thinks I'm too hard on Russia. As far as I am concerned, we cannot be strict enough against a country that is threatening our security and peace in Europe. I'm never gonna look away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u253	Thank you. No, Mrs. Karabulut, really. I would actually like to propose suspending Mrs Ploumen for congratulations and so on. But now there's a short break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u254	We shall continue with the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA. Mrs. Ploumen is having her maiden speech. It is customary not to interrupt during a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a great honour and a great pleasure, but above all a great responsibility to stand in your Chamber in this place. I have a number of points I would like to put to the Foreign Minister. I'd like to hear his reaction tomorrow. It's four points. The first point concerns the UN Security Council, a powerful, rather private group of countries. The Netherlands can now be a member for one year. The cabinet writes in the letter that the Netherlands wants to ensure security and protection of citizens, worldwide. Of course, the PvdA Group strongly supports this. But in that UN Security Council, half the world's population is often overlooked. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this is an excellent opportunity for the cabinet and for the Netherlands to make a difference here. Then it's more about implementing all kinds of existing agreements. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Guterres, has recently sent a report to the UN Security Council on the position of women in violence and conflict. My suggestion is that the Netherlands should be inspired by that report. At least I did. That is why I have four proposals for the commitment of the Netherlands to the UN Security Council. I sincerely hope that the Minister will take them over. I can't really think of why he wouldn't want to do that. The first point. Appoint a woman as Dutch ambassador to the Security Council for 2018. That's an important symbol in that company of most men. Two. On March 8th is International Women's Day. In the month of March, the Netherlands is chairman and can therefore convene special sessions itself. Organise a session of the Security Council on International Women's Day on SheDecides, the right of women to decide for themselves on body and life. That has everything to do with the subject of the Security Council. If women can decide for themselves, it is good not only for themselves and for their families, but also for their community and their country. It also leads to stability. My third proposal. My request to the Minister is to take the lead in setting up a thematic sanction regime to punish sexual violence against women in conflict situations. We have sanction regimes of countries, such as sanctions against North Korea and Iran. There is one other thematic sanction regime, against international terrorism. Under that sanction regime, individuals and entities associated with Al-Qaida and IS may be placed on penalty lists. Their assets can be frozen, there is a travel ban called and there is an arms embargo. I would very much like to see such a thematic sanctioning regime for those who commit sexual violence against women, tolerate it and leave it unpunished. My fourth point. Involve explicitly at all sessions and all decisions of the Security Council what they mean for women. Also invite female activists, human rights defenders and women's organisations as speakers. My second topic is human rights. From women's rights to human rights, it is actually a very small step. I have, of course, read with interest the first speech made by the new minister, his pitch for the EU ambassadors. In that he said: in a realistic foreign policy, we look at what is feasible rather than what is desirable. I had a bit of a prickly debate about it with Mr Ten Broeke. Such a view, in the eyes of the PvdA Group, is totally inadequate for a country, a cabinet, which says it wants to defend the freedom of the individual, so the freedom to make your own voice heard and the freedom to be who you want to be. This often goes far beyond what is feasible. If it's feasible, you'll never get to the desirable. So I ask the Minister how I should see that desirable, for example for the situation in Yemen. Will the Minister continue to work for the security of citizens in Yemen and for the resolution of the conflict, even though this may not seem feasible for a moment? And how should I see it in relation to the situation in Poland, where the rule of law is being attacked from all sides? I would therefore very much like the Minister to bring the feasible and desirable something closer together and, above all, a little closer to what is good for the rights of people who are often rejected and defeated. Then Europe, close to home. In fact, there are only a few economical paragraphs about Europe in the coalition agreement. I would like to be more active and assertive about this. We are one of the 27 Member States of the European Union. That's good for the Netherlands and we won't let the Brexit get to us. We are working together with other Member States on cross-border problems. I would like to mention three, and I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to do this: climate change, the Detachment Directive and tax avoidance. Better a good neighbor than a distant friend. The Prime Minister forgot about that last week. The relationship with our neighbour Belgium is really very important. Has the Minister had contact with his Belgian colleague to say that it was not meant to be? As far as those good neighbours are concerned, it is also important that we keep an eye on the people who live in the border regions, such as the Limburgers. Will the Minister make an effort to ensure that the Cross-border Economy and Labour Action Team can continue its agenda for action? You're all thinking, what kind of policy thing is that? But it goes way beyond a little policy thing. Because what's the agenda about? It is about the fact that MBOs who obtain a diploma in Gulpen should be able to work with that diploma in Belgium or Germany, and vice versa. The point is that people must be able to use facilities across borders if they need to. That is very important in the lives of the ordinary people in Limburg. And I think they're high on the agenda of this cabinet. Finally. On 10 December, the campaign against nuclear weapons will receive the Nobel Prize. It has already been said: 122 countries have signed the Treaty against nuclear weapons. The Netherlands was the only NATO country to negotiate and received recognition for this. In the coalition agreement, I read that the Netherlands is committed to a nuclear-free world. I have, of course, also read the part behind the comma, on which Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out to us in abundance. It is important to continue to do so, but as a result of the award of the Nobel Prize, we heard the Secretary-General of NATO say 'I say it only in my own words'very important such a nuclear-free world, but not for a moment'. How does the Minister see that? What can we expect from him as a bet? The Netherlands has traditionally served as a bridge between nuclear powers and other countries. The Netherlands has held the presidency of a number of important bodies. Is that what the Minister's gonna do? What's his bet? Isn't it true that what stands for the comma is the real bet and that what stands for the comma is an afterburner from one of the coalition members? I wish the Minister every success. I want to encourage him to stand up for the interests of the Netherlands worldwide. Because if he stands for the values that we hold so high here, then he is also doing the right thing for all those people who live in countries where these values are handled very differently and where they seem to be of less value. I wish him good luck. I look forward to his answers tomorrow. I am sure that we will have a good debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u256	Thank you. Then I'd like to be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech. You have spoken here for the first time, but as you have done today, it seems as if you have been with us for years. You stay where you are and I'll suspend so everyone can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u257	We shall continue with the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I naturally congratulate Mr Ploumen, who has just arrived, on her maiden speech in this Chamber. Welcome to the Foreign Affairs Committee. No long introduction by Mrs Ploumen: right to the point with a four point plan for the Security Council. We also knew her in the capacity of Minister. I wish Mrs Ploumen every success in this committee. I also welcome the new Minister, now also in plenary. Of course, we have had small AO's before, but we are speaking now in the plenary. I look forward to working with this minister. I particularly want to hear his vision of the world. The Minister said all kinds of things in a previous life, of course, but now he is Minister. I find it interesting to know what he thinks now and what role the Netherlands could play in the world. And of course, everyone takes their own knowledge and experience from the past to a new position. Mr. Chairman. We were in Iran and we started talking about human rights. We were immediately asked again, as is customary in the Middle East: oh, you mean human rights violations on the island of Lesbos, where innocent people were frozen last year? Or: oh, you are talking about the innocent victims of the drone attacks by America and NATO on the Pakistan-Pakistan border or about the time when we were attacked with chemical weapons by Iraq and the West side of Iraq? This shows how different human rights can be approached. Of course, we asked for it, but the discussion was immediately on edge. We have always seen two pillars in the Netherlands' human rights policy and foreign policy: promoting and strengthening the international legal order and human rights and defending the Dutch interest. In other words: the old, good marriage between the vicar and the merchant. The merchant woman. I ask this Minister to continue this good marriage with equal rights. Will he make an effort to achieve a beautiful and sustainable marriage? Mr. Chairman. We are looking at the objectives of this foreign policy and development cooperation cabinet. That is what is in the coalition agreement. I would just like to mention it, and Mr Sjoerdsma also mentioned it: the fight against the root causes of poverty, the regulation of migration, the fight against terror and the fight against climate change. For the first and the last, namely climate change and combating the root causes of poverty, we have the Minister for Development Cooperation. This Minister for Foreign Affairs, I presume, will be, but we must hear from him that we are going to focus more on regulating migration and combating terror. First of all, the regulation of migration. The mayor of Lesbos.............................................................................................................................................................. His island is now turning into a concentration camp, as he calls it. There are now more than 6,000 refugees trapped in Camp Moria, while there is only a reception capacity of 2,000. Indeed, during the last winter several people died from the freezing cold. What gives us the right to turn a finger on other countries when it comes to human rights, when we in Europe are freezing people to death? What can this Minister do, together with the European Union and, of course, with Greece, to stop this suffering as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. I'm helping him with some suggestions. Accelerate the legal procedure with the help of more INDs from Europe, but also from the Netherlands. Two. Bring the people on the mainland into more humane shelters and also pay for them. Three. Distribute the recognised refugees evenly across Europe. This has been going on for years and we cannot improve the inhumane situation on those islands. We went there ourselves as a committee of asylum a year ago. Especially the Netherlands, as a tractor of the Turkey deal, is partly responsible for this. It really needs to be a cabinet priority. Help solve it, I say to the Minister, together with the other EU Member States and Greece. I know that the previous Minister and Secretary of State have stated several times in the Chamber: yes, but the Greeks are not in order. It's en-and. The European Commission and the European Member States have a responsibility, given the Turkey deal, and of course Greece must also have its own affairs in order. It's both. Is the Minister prepared to show his commitment to this? Then I'll come to the migration deals. The Minister will undoubtedly also look for countries with which migration deals or agreements can be concluded, so that return and better reception can be organised in the region. Of course, every effort must be made to combat these terrible tragedies in the Mediterranean. But does the Minister also agree that the return of refugees can only be done after a shortened asylum procedure and only to safe countries which are also physically compliant with the Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u259	Let me get this straight. Previously, Mr Voordewind was fiercely opposed to the Turkey deal, because it was a paper solution and still is. What are future deals that may be closed, different from the Turkey deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u260	My party has always spoken critically about the Turkey deal. One component of this was that the package was combined with visa-free travel and accelerated accession to the European Union. We have also always stressed the need to improve the situation in Turkey itself in relation to the reception of refugees. You will have found in the coalition agreement that we are still arguing for an improvement in the reception situation of asylum children in particular, but also of refugees of the width in Turkey. If there were to be new migration deals with African countries and the Coast Guard, you would also read in the government agreement that they must meet two important conditions: material to the Refugee Convention and to the non-refoulement principle, so don't send them back to unsafe countries. If we succeed in concluding such a migration deal, which we will never do on our own, but will always be at European level, then a situation has arisen in which refugees on the African coast can be safely received. There must be humane circumstances there. There they can then apply for shelter and possibly be eligible for resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u261	Yeah, that's the theory. That theory was, of course, also there for Turkey. You described that deal as: at odds with European international law and a paper reality. Besides, our values were squandered. Do you still think so? Are these the points on which future deals should be shaped differently from the Turkey deal, namely that we should be able to check in practice whether they comply with all these international laws and rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u262	Mrs Karabulut has been able to read in the government agreement that new migration agreements have to comply materially with the Refugee Convention. That means that this situation must be present. You know the conditions, namely that there must be access to health care and education, decent reception, access to work, availability for work. That is the framework within which it was agreed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u263	Did Mr Voordewind ask the Minister whether people arriving in Europe can only be returned to safe countries? Was that the question? I had the impression that Mr Voordewind asked the Minister to confirm something which he himself explained to me was in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u264	I would ask the Minister whether he agrees with what is contained in the government agreement, but I really assume that if agreements are to be concluded, they must indeed be concluded within the framework of the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u265	I keep trying to figure out what these agreements mean in practice for refugees. Now I understand that even Mr Voordewind of the Minister is asking for a guarantee that the Minister will implement the government agreement on this point. I thought this was absolutely self-evident, especially at the beginning of such a period of government. So I hope that Mr Voordewind is interested in the question of what exactly is in the government agreement for refugees and that he takes it for granted that the Minister is going to do what is in the government agreement. I have rarely seen a government group ask the Minister: do you agree with what is in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u266	It's always good to get confirmation of the things you agreed on. It is also a bit of a rhetorical question, I say immediately, to stress again here that if agreements are to be concluded, they must indeed be concluded within the framework of the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u267	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u268	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to fighting terror and genocide. Mr Van Helvert has already said a few things about this. The government agreement talks about the active involvement of the Netherlands in the fight against ISIS and the trial of ISIS. Is the Cabinet prepared to acknowledge the genocide on Jezidis and Christians? I can imagine that at the moment this Minister is unable to respond to this because we, as a Chamber, have asked the Cabinet for a response to the report on human rights matters some time ago. The Minister has only just taken office two weeks ago. I understand that reaction is coming. So also all the understanding that the Minister cannot go into that yet, but then we see his response in that letter, which I hope will come this way before Christmas so that we can discuss it specifically with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the trial and prosecution of ISIS fighters. Does the Minister also think that this is a priority when it comes to membership of the UN Security Council next year? Is he going to pass that priority on to our team in New York? What will the Netherlands do to facilitate the return of refugees to Iraq as a focus country? If ISIS is later defeated, is the Netherlands prepared to help rebuild northern Iraq? Beating ISIS or Al-Qaeda is of course not enough. This is also about combating the root causes of conflict. Ferme language alone and military show of power do not help to fight the root causes of the conflicts. It was not for nothing that Arab uprisings in the Middle East arose out of discontent over the unequal distribution of resources and power and a lack of human rights and democratisation. Strengthening stability in these countries is accompanied by fair distribution of power between Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds, Arab minorities, Druze and Christians. Does this cabinet continue to support the NIMD, the Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy, also with the help of those democratisation processes? Will this cabinet also pursue funds such as Consensus and Consensus and will it strengthen the issue of the rule of law? Can the Minister respond to that? Then there is an important part of foreign policy, human rights, and yet another part of religious freedom. During our recent trip we also talked about the freedom of religion and the position of converts in particular. There are no churches or opportunities for them to publicly confess their faith. At the moment there are 193 Christians convicted just because they are Christians. Azi Habibi has been on death row in Pakistan for eight years because of a false charge of blasphemy. The right to change faith, Article 18 of the UN Charter, is not respected in many Muslim countries. 250 million Christians are persecuted worldwide for their beliefs. In short, all the reasons why freedom of religion should be an important spearhead again in the new cabinet. Does the Minister agree with this? Is the Minister also prepared to increase funding for this within the Human Rights Fund? Then I come to talk about Israel and the Palestinians. I read somewhere that the passage on the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians has been negotiated for quite some time. Hence a number of questions about this. Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons still receive a perverse bonus: the more innocent victims killed, the higher the monthly benefit, sometimes over €2,500 per month. What is this minister going to do in concrete terms to stop this perverse incentive to terrorist attacks with possible EU supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u269	Were you working on the rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u270	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u271	Then I suggest that you finish it first and then I give Mrs Ploumen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u272	I have two more points to make on this subject, Mr President. Will the Minister, now that there is another unitary government coming, keep this government to the quartet conditions? Should Hamas Ministers renounce violence and recognise the State of Israel? How can we work with these ministers if they remain members of a terrorist organisation at the same time? Finally, Mr President, on this point. The final sentence of the coalition agreement on the Middle East Peace Process concerns the implementation of reconciliation and cooperation projects between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Is the Minister going to take this actively? Does he have any ideas for this? If not, I would be happy to present these concrete ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u273	A brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u274	Mr Voordewind called for attention to be paid to Christians in prison. They are often imprisoned in countries where the freedom of the press is not so close. My question is actually the same as I asked Mr Van Helvert: can we stick together and make sure that the Human Rights Fund does not just do the right thing for one specific group, but really looks at it through the limitation of freedom? Can I find Mr Voordewind on my side to perhaps make a joint proposal to the Minister on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u275	There is now 33 million in the Human Rights Fund, memorized. I believe that this is being used on a wide range of subjects for the protection of human rights, including journalists, human rights defenders and trade unionists. I believe that all the categories mentioned by Mr Ploumen are now included in the Human Rights Fund. If she can appoint another category that is not in it, I will have to check with the Minister whether that is the case. I always look favourably at new categories, but I must of course also take into account Mr Ten Broeke, who again wants fewer categories, so that will be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u276	All madness on a stick, of course it's not about categories. It is a question of whether we are going to protect people and groups who cannot count on the protection of others and whether we are doing so in a balanced way, because human rights are universal. That is actually my only request to Mr Voordewind, but I think I have him on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u277	That seems obvious to me. Anyway, I'll just wait and see if there's a motion. Mr Van Helvert and I have now explicitly drawn attention to the position of Christians, because they are often ignored and there is every reason to mention them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u278	One quick question, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u279	I have a comment to make. There is an amendment (34775-V, No. 11) tabled by my group in order to make money available for the protection of conservationists. That's one of those groups Mrs Ploumen's talking about. Perhaps Mr Voordewind could take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u280	One very brief point, Mr President. The coalition agreement talks about a nuclear-free world. What is the Minister going to do specifically and actively to contribute to this? Is the Netherlands prepared to continue to raise this issue within NATO? Finally, Mr President. I started with the objectives and pillars of foreign policy. Maybe I can give the minister a text from the Bible, Psalm 7. There is a fine call in it for his reign to come, namely: put an end to evil and be the righteous to support. I wish the Minister that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u281	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u282	Madam President. I would like to endorse the words of welcome to Minister Zijlstra, with whom we are discussing the Foreign Affairs budget for the first time. I wish him every success. I congratulate Mrs Ploumen on her maiden speech. Welcome to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I thought you were so happy. That's a good sign, I think. I begin my contribution with the European Union. In recent weeks, there have been a number of sometimes far-reaching suggestions for the future development of the Union. For short, the names Macron and Juncker. For 50PLUS, most of these proposals go too far. We have the impression that this also applies to the cabinet, but we would like to hear it again from the Minister. In his book The new politics of Europe, Luuk van Middelaar clearly explains the difference between rule and event politics. Of the first, 50PLUS says that we are slowly having too much; at the latter we, as national parliaments, risk losing control of these events. At the end of this month, a Dutch parliamentary delegation will present an initiative at the conference of EU Parliaments in Tallinn aimed at getting much more information on what is being proposed in but above all around the European Council. In this case, in particular, agreements are made on the policy of events. 50PLUS believes that citizens should gain more knowledge and confidence in the European Union. First of all, we need to be much more transparent about what Heads of State or Government are doing together in Brussels. Van Middelaar's book makes it all the more clear how important that is. Will the Minister answer that? As we have said before, 50PLUS opts for a practical, realistic and critical approach in the development of the European Union under the motto "not more, but less and better." We believe that the European Union has three core tasks: economic and monetary policy, environmental and energy policy and security, defence and foreign policy. Only tasks which cannot be carried out at national level: the traditional principle of subsidiarity. That rule has disappeared into the background over the past decade, but we must continue to set up and guarantee the Member States' own policy space. Does the Minister agree with us? This means, in essence, that no separate budget for the euro countries, no euro minister of finance and no common financing of debts of EU Member States through a transfer union or the issuance of eurobonds. This is an attitude which we are pleased to see also in the coalition agreement. Last week, I clearly congratulated the Minister for Finance for immediately and clearly hitting the poles at his first appearance in Brussels. I repeat that to this Minister for his clear statement yesterday in Brussels, there cannot be a doubling of the European Union's budget. This was proposed by the President of the European Parliament. Furthermore, according to 50PLUS, it is not wise to extend the euro area further for the time being. First of all, we need to resolve the issues that still need to be addressed and then we need to see whether further enlargement is desirable. I also refer here to the German economist Jürgen Stark, who said that with more countries you will kill the eurozone. Yesterday, this Minister, together with his colleague from the Defence Department, signed the agreement to set up PESCO. That is permanent cooperation within the Union in the field of defence. We are in favour of this, but we do have a question. The Minister repeatedly mentioned the inadequate European intervention in Libya as an example of what could be done better. How can PESCO in such a situation quickly mean something if armed forces remain under national authority and there is no additional budget for PESCO? I also wonder why, according to Het Financieele Dagblad, this Minister says that PESCO only exists on paper for the time being, while the Minister of Defence says that it is now important to prove that it works. Mr. Chairman. I come to the relationship between the Union and Turkey. We agree here in the Chamber that Turkey cannot now join the Union. In the coalition agreement we read that the cabinet is seeking an alternative form of cooperation with Turkey. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to fill that out. As I said before, for 50PLUS, it is not more, but less, but better, as far as the EU is concerned. Let me give you an example of the latter. As far as we are concerned, there is a need to do so in the areas of cohesion policy and agricultural subsidies. In it, 50PLUS supports the establishment of the Cabinet, aimed at an EU budget that is more focused on innovation, research, climate and sustainability. More than anything I'd describe as popular as handing out gifts. At the last European Council, the Heads of State or Government agreed to hold tighter control of their own. In doing so, they want to detach things that are stuck, for example in the under councils and at the administrative level. According to Donald Tusk, President-in-Office of the Council, in areas such as migration policy and the future of the euro area, a series of gordian buttons will have to be cut over the next 20 months. To this end, the Heads of Government of the European Union will meet thirteen times in the next one and a half years and have even drawn up a leadership agenda. The Prime Minister said the following in the debate on 12 October. "The Heads of State or Government will have to raise the problems of the trade councils to the level of the European Council and resolve them from time to time. This can be extremely uncomfortable for some on one subject and for others on the other." So much for the Prime Minister. The question to the Minister is whether we should interpret this toughness as an attack on the position of the European Commission. The next question is whether this toughness of the Heads of State or Government weakens the position of this minister when it comes to the European Union. Minister, please give me an answer. A recurring issue on the European agenda is the issue of migration. In the new cabinet there are several rulers involved in this. I would like to receive a commitment from the Minister that there will be better coordination on this issue. I'm hearing the Minister from field-K asking what subject. That's migration. Yes, Mr President, it really comes to that, even as far as we are concerned! Does he agree with 50PLUS that his colleague for Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation I do not know if he felt it coming there is a good candidate, given that a substantial part of her budget is being used for the reception of refugees in the region? Moreover, and this is not a disqualification of this minister, Mrs Kaag has more knowledge of this matter than anyone else in the cabinet. Does the Minister agree with us? Minister Kaag, together with this minister and the Prime Minister, is going to Abidjan at the end of this month to attend the conference of the European Union and the African Union. It is good that the Netherlands is represented there with a heavy delegation. When we talk about migration, good and continuous dialogue with the African continent countries is very important. It is good that a platform is set up for this. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the European Union, we cannot ignore the Brexit. It is clear that the negotiations between the Union and the British are at a major impasse. That was also the picture yesterday following the visit of a European entrepreneurial delegation to Mrs May. Fortunately, EU negotiator Barnier speaks clearly: a concrete proposal on financial settlement in two weeks' time. In an interview with a French newspaper, Le Journal du Dimanche, Barnier said this weekend that we must take serious account of the failure of the talks. That is not surprising when we see the political crap in England; please have a reaction from the Minister. According to the Minister, can we still see the British as a serious interlocutor? And in this context: is the Netherlands waiting with the poor to see how the process is going or are we also trying to prevent our interests from being seriously harmed if the negotiators in Brussels do not come out? I am thinking, for example, of exports of agricultural and horticultural products, transport and fisheries. What scenarios are on the shelf for that? What is the Brexit Task Force, which is mentioned in the reply to the written questions, currently working on? Mr. Chairman. Another look at the rest of the world. We noticed that the ruling agreement on the brittle situation in the Middle East states no more than 'the Middle East contributes to peace and security'. In the meantime, at a committee meeting last week, the Minister has said a few things about this, but we expect to hear a clear view of this in the budget debate, particularly when it comes to the view of Iran, where we were recently with a delegation from the committee, I was also there at the meeting and on the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. What is the way in which the Minister is going to work for a strong and effective human rights policy? We're looking a little further around. How does the Minister assess the results of President Trump's trip to Asia? Can we go to sleep more quietly, or does the nuclear threat of fanatics in North Korea hang over the world? Does the Minister agree with various commentators that China is gradually becoming the world's most important power? A clear Dutch position on international politics is particularly important as we become part of the Security Council; colleagues have already spoken about it. What are the spearheads on which the Netherlands will focus? What is the Security Council team doing, as we understand it, with 35 fte? We read in the budget that membership offers an excellent opportunity 'to influence international decision-making on issues of peace and security, to promote the enforcement of international law, while safeguarding the Kingdom's interests'. Finally, Mr President. My group was uncomfortablely surprised by the Prime Minister's slippage towards Belgium last week in the debate on dividend taxation. I shall come back to that tomorrow on behalf of the group. The Benelux, Italy, France and Germany were the founders of the European Union. We have a close relationship with Belgium in many ways, not least because of the language and good relationship with Flanders. The economies are strongly linked. We wear a piece of the same culture. Why does the Prime Minister now have to put Belgium in this way on a fiscal and technical but also political issue? Look what happens if we don't do what the Prime Minister wants. He said something like: look at Belgium; they have almost nothing left and then we go that way. That while that country is proud of itself. I felt that both the Belgian Prime Minister and the Finance Minister gave a very modest, sensible and calm response. I hope the Prime Minister will do the same tomorrow. But perhaps tomorrow evening the Minister will be able to respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u283	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u284	Madam President. The Leeuwarder Courant copped enthusiastically some time ago "Halbe Zijlstra in track Eelco van Kleffens?'. He is the first Fries since Eelco van Kleffens at the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs. Van Kleffens was the partyless liberal minister who was Minister of Foreign Affairs in the period of the war from 1939 to 1946. That's a good reason to go into Eelco Nicolaas van Kleffens. I saw that it was written about him that he expressed himself very clearly. I quote: "What he spoke or wrote was of penetrant precision." "His experience had taught him to carefully consider evil and good opportunities for and against any action." If that is the trail of Eelco van Kleffens, then this minister should be allowed to go into it as far as the SGP Group is concerned, because that clarity and care is certainly needed in foreign policy. I suspect these are also keywords in which this minister feels at home. I wish him a great deal of wisdom in the performance of this beautiful and special office, particularly at a time when the Netherlands, as has already been mentioned, will bear a special responsibility in the Security Council. Mr. Chairman. Of course, with every new minister, the following question is always equally exciting: is there a change of course or a change of course in foreign policy vis-à-vis the cabinet, or is it generally the same? I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction to this. In any case, I see in the coalition agreement that investments are being made in the strengthening of diplomacy, the military and development cooperation. We believe that this is right. Big words are used when it comes to the direction of foreign policy. One of the colleagues, Mr. Sjoerdsma, was talking about that. Those big words are for the SGP, also in the debate on foreign policy:'security', 'connection' and 'justice'. In our opinion, these must be high on the Dutch agenda for a strong and coherent foreign policy. I do not wish to dwell again on the beautiful Dutch flag, which has been in this Chamber since today, but I would like to return to that core value: security. Safety in and around the Netherlands has deteriorated. Our freedom here depends on what happens elsewhere in the world. That is why it is very important that extra money is invested in the army. We welcome this, but we see it as a first step, because we are certainly not there yet, as the International Affairs Advisory Council has just pointed out. There was also a very specific reference to the vulnerability of the Baltic parts of the NATO area. I also ask this Minister how he looks at this. If we look even further east, we cannot get around the international tensions surrounding North Korea and Iran. My question on this is whether the EU sanctions regime against North Korea is sufficiently respected. When it comes to Iran, what is the situation with regard to Iran's compliance with the agreements in the framework of a nuclear deal? Moreover, I have recently come across the word 'iranisation' as an indication of the development in Turkey and the deterioration of human rights there, but also in Lebanon where Iran's influence has increased enormously through the terrorist organisation Hezbollah. What do these developments mean for stability and security in this region and what is the response from the Netherlands? Then the second basic principle, the connection. This calls for a commitment for all those whose fundamental rights are being violated. I too would like to draw attention to the position of persecuted Christians. We were pleased with the emphasis on this in the coalition agreement. I can also cite Iran as an example in this respect. We see, on the one hand, that Christianity is growing against tribulation, but, at the same time, that the hostile attitude towards Christians is being further strengthened. Think of a country like Nigeria and the influence of Boka Haram there. Geopolitics may be less interesting, but when it comes to the violation of fundamental rights, it is something to have a particular focus on in relation to the SGP. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the Budapest Declaration, which encourages the international community to stand up for religious freedom. I ask this Minister to give explicit attention to religious freedom in the strengthening of the postal network. In the context of solidarity, I would also like to draw your attention to the situation in two countries with which the Netherlands has old ties. Think of the position of the inhabitants of West Papua. That is something that has been regularly called attention to in this Chamber. The same applies to their disadvantaged position. I would ask the Minister to pay attention to this. In South Africa, crime has increased incredibly. The figures for this are almost nowhere in the world, even when it comes to the murders that are taking place, also known as 'plaas murder'. This year, a Dutch farmer has fallen victim to it. I ask the Minister to get in touch with the South African Government to see how it can contribute to, and how it can be encouraged to, a strengthening of security in this country, with which we have a particular historical connection. Special solidarity has also grown with countries where we have participated in missions. Even when military efforts were sometimes successful, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, building reliable governance was often difficult afterwards. How does the Minister view from this experience the post-ISIS era in Syria and Iraq? What is the Dutch commitment to this? I would also like to draw attention to the Jewish people and the state of Israel within the context of solidarity. It is a good thing that funding has been stopped for organisations that still glorify terror. It is completely unacceptable for a Palestinian organisation to name a youth centre after a terrorist who has suffered many casualties, but yet a large part of the international aid to the Palestinians flows into terrorist benefits. Mr Voordewind also spoke about this perverse stimulus. As far as the SGP is concerned, this cannot be justified. We urge the Minister to take effective steps to counter this. Fortunately, motions for resolutions have already been adopted in this Chamber. On combating the disproportionate number of anti-Israeli resolutions and decisions within many UN organisations, the SGP has recently tabled a motion with colleagues, which has received broad support in the House of Representatives. How does the Minister implement that motion? With regard to Israel, I see many opportunities for cooperation in areas where this country is particularly innovative, such as medical technology, agriculture, IT. More cooperation could help us achieve Dutch societal goals such as climate, food security and cybersecurity. Would the cabinet like to give an impetus to this cooperation? Then there's the last principle I'd like to say a few words about, justice. Do not stand in injustice, draw boundaries where peace, security and fundamental values are at stake, stand up for the oppressed fellow man, close and far away. That is why we welcome the government's commitment to development cooperation and the focus of migration policy on the reception of refugees in the region. I have heard a great deal about it in this Chamber for a long time. Are this period really taking steps in that context? Finally. The policy on the European Union and Europe is in this minister's portfolio. It's an important subject. We are at a crossroads with the question of how we move forward with Europe at this time of Brexit and many national discussions on the direction of the EU. In the coalition agreement I read several points that the cabinet does want, but sometimes I still miss clear limits on what the cabinet does not want what the EU does. Would the Minister be more specific about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u285	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut has another question for Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u286	Speaking of justice, does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that justice and looking back at the oppressed mean that the Palestinian people, who are occupied by Israel, should also be in his right? So it is the right of international organisations to insist on this? Does he agree with me that our government, the new minister, should continue to insist on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u287	Justice raises a people, to quote a beautiful Bible text. Justice means standing up for people who are having a hard time. It is clear to us that we must strive for good relations between Israel and the Palestinians. That is also the commitment of the policy in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u288	That's very good to hear. This means that the SGP is also in favour of a policy of discouragement of illegal settlements and that we should not trade with companies that have products from illegal settlements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u289	Trade makes a lot of Palestinians feel better. We are therefore very much in favour of this. We shouldn't be too miserable in that. In the past, companies have been affected by all kinds of well-intentioned or less-intentioned anti-Israel policy, which is also putting Palestinian employment at risk. We are in favour of going to the table to find solutions and have absolutely nothing to do with these BDS practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u290	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u291	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ploumen on her maiden speech. She has years of experience in vocational K. I think that experience is a valuable addition to this House of Representatives. We have, of course, had the reverse order, namely from the Lower House to Vocational K. Mr Zijlstra is now officially Minister for Foreign Affairs for three weeks and then a budget. We at DENK wish him much strength and wisdom in the coming period. That will be necessary, because there is still much injustice in our world. We must stop saying injustice, because our actions are like the shadows: they continue to haunt us very closely. If we close our eyes to injustice, then we see that it passes to our own cities, neighborhoods and streets. We saw this in 2014, when Gaza was bombed by the Israeli government. The silence from our government was broken on the Erasmus Bridge by tens of thousands of Dutch citizens. Also in 2015, after the failed military coup attempt in Turkey, we saw that our government was far too late to formulate a response. Even then, thousands of Turkish Dutch have used their democratic rights and have spoken out against the failed military coup attempt rather than our government. What we see is that globalisation and rapid exchange of information ensure that foreign policy can no longer be separated from domestic policy. We in the Netherlands therefore do not have the luxury of watching injustice, especially in The Hague, the city of international peace and justice. Justice begins by recognizing the pain and drawing lessons from the past. Our country has a great responsibility towards countries and people with whom we have a shared history. One of these countries is Suriname. During the autumn recess I visited Suriname with my group. That is where we were able to see the twinning facility with our own eyes. Initiatives are sustainable and here and there spin-off also arises. In Nieuw-Nickerie, for example, where women's empowerment has also involved men. In Moengo Tapoe, where permanent efforts are made to prepare children for Dutch language education. In Apetina, where a small community has become self-reliant by purchasing its own aircraft and has better access to education and health care. At the same time, we are getting more and more negative stories about the allocation of funds. It should be noted that the evaluation of the second facility only heard parties that were awarded projects during the first facility. Nor has the evaluation examined in detail the assessment of project applications. As far as we are concerned, a good evaluation includes applications that have not been granted. My question is also what rates Berenschot and NIKOS used for their joint services. This point should also be taken into account in the consideration with which implementing organisations the next twinning facility will be implemented. I would like a response from the Minister and a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. We also have a shared history with Bosnia and Herzegovina. This history has everything to do with the fall of Srebrenica. More than 8,000 Bosnian men and boys were murdered by the Serbs. Dutchbat was supposed to protect these people, but unfortunately failed. We must never forget this tragedy. Mr. Chairman. To this day Bosnia has to deal with post-war obstacles. One of these obstacles is the Dayton Agreement. Fortunately, the Dayton Agreement has led to the absence of a new war, but, in today's situation, it has paralysed political decision-making. Bosnia consists of two entities, two police forces, two parliaments, two prime ministers, ten cantons each with its own parliament and among those cantons there are 142 municipalities. Whether that's not enough, there are three presidents who rotate every eight months. Bosnia is therefore governed by one of the most complex forms of government in history. This ensures that urgent social and economic problems are not addressed because political parties can achieve little concessions between themselves in this system. This is causing a permanent administrative crisis. Bosnians feel that crisis. DENK therefore believes that the Dayton Agreement should be lifted. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would like to raise this point at the United Nations, for example, or at European level. Mr. Chairman. Our continent has had to deal with terrible terrorist attacks in recent years. Attacks by terrorists who didn't distinguish between their victims in terms of colour, religion or whatever. Unfortunately, however, the European countries make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u292	I see that Mr Sjoerdsma has an interruption, but you will finish this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u293	Distinctive in terror groups, then. Take the terrorist organisation PKK as an example, a terrorist organisation that has caused tens of thousands of civilian casualties and still attacks every day. While this terrorist organisation is on all our terrorist lists, we see that in several European countries the sympathizers of the terrorist PKK are facilitated in their meetings and events. They even stand before our parliament to glorify terror with flags and symbols. I wonder: how would we react if we walked to this building on a Tuesday morning and there was a crowd with Daesh flags? Are we going to carry on shoulder-picking with our lives, or are we going to turn on the authorities immediately? If this is not a double measure when it comes to terror, I ask the Minister. In Germany symbols of terrorist organisations have now been banned. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to commit himself to such a ban in the Netherlands on flags and symbols of all terrorist organisations. I'm considering a motion on this subject. I would like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u294	On the previous point, the point I should perhaps like to summarize, Mr Kuzu, is to correct me if I do that wrongly as recognizing the pain and learning lessons from the past. I think this is an important point, a point that I have often made in recent years, for example when it comes to Indonesia and the importance of renewed research. That's what's happening now. I am very happy about that myself. We need to see what comes out of that investigation. But if we do this ourselves and if we are going to do it properly as our own, because we have not done so well in the past, we must do so consistently. And we, as parliamentarians, must do so consistently. My question to Mr Kuzu is, therefore, when he is going to acknowledge the abuses, to acknowledge the genocide that has taken place in Armenia. Because that too is important when you talk about recognising past pain and drawing lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u295	I said in my speech very emphatically that it is about recognising pain and drawing lessons from history. Let me be very clear about that; I say that very often. We acknowledge the pain and sorrow of the events in 1915. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. However, this is about the qualification and use of the term genocide. You have also signed the coalition agreement on this, which requires a number of proofs to be put forward to qualify it as genocide. We will see in the coming period whether the qualification genocide as included in the coalition agreement also fits the issue of the Armenians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u296	Here's the problem. When it comes to Turkey, there's suddenly some covert language around the corner. Then there is talk of events in 1915. A lot happened in 1915, I can tell you. There is talk in euphemist terms of the horrors that have taken place there. Mr Kuzu does the same when it comes to what the leader of Turkey Erdogan is doing at this time. Even then, he generally refuses to be critical. I call him: please be consistent. When it comes to promoting human rights and international law, when it comes to looking in the mirror, we must continue to do so consistently. So do that too, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u297	We are very consistent there when it comes to the freedoms and achievements we have in the Netherlands, which we know in this world. We strongly support freedom of expression, freedom of religion and freedom of the press. On that point, too, let there be no misunderstanding. At the same time, I say that it has everything to do with the attitude with which we are spreading the freedoms we currently know in the Netherlands or in the Western world to the rest of the world. In this respect, I am satisfied with Mr Zijlstra's 2015 opinion paper, in which he says that we should not be walking around the Netherlands with all our fingers lifted. In the end, the effect is that we do not achieve much. That doesn't improve the situation. In recent years, we have even been able to see that it is causing a deterioration in relations between Turkey and the Netherlands in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u298	We agreed to do interruptions in two, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt later. I propose that Mr Kuzu continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u299	Mr. Chairman. The greatest opportunities for peace and security are to be achieved on the world stage. The Netherlands will be a member of the UN Security Council for a year from 1 January. In March 2018 we will even be president for a while. We at DENK want to give the Minister three items on the agenda. Agenda item 1 is the situation in the Middle East. The Israeli occupation of Palestine has been going on for over half a century now. The Israeli Government is acting towards the Palestinians as an authoritarian rogue state that violates their fundamental rights. Unfortunately, the intimidation and detention of Palestinian children, the expansion of illegal settlements and the destruction of Palestinian citizens' buildings and assets are the order of the day. That is why, as far as we are concerned, Prime Minister Netanyahu does not deserve a red carpet, but a strong tap. It is too crazy for words that the previous cabinet has intensified relations with Israel and that the current cabinet intends to continue with this. In this way, the Israeli Government is rewarded for the illegal policy. Anyone who dislikes that will soon be dismissed as an anti-Semite. There is now an attempt to extend the definition of anti-Semitism in such a way that it would include criticism of Israel's policy. In this way, the fight against anti-Semitism is smeared by Israeli lobby groups such as CIDI and Likoed Nederland who provide disinformation in our country. Disinformation comes not only from Russia, but also from Israel. The cabinet must distance itself from this and stick to the previous cabinet's view that anti-Semitism and criticism of Israel must be strictly separated. This is also in the interests of an effective and pure fight against racism, including anti-Semitism. Finally, human rights organisations in Israel and Palestine. The Israeli government and organisations as NGO Monitor have opened the attack on them. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet should continue to support human rights organisations more than less. They expose violations and show us the way to a just peace. Is the Minister prepared to continue to support these human rights organisations? Mr. Chairman. DENK advocates the immediate recognition of the Palestinian State by the Netherlands. For as long as the Palestinian State is not recognised, there will never be an equivalent position. The minister's predecessor has always said that he is waiting for a strategic moment, and I would therefore like to ask this Minister, new minister, new opportunities, whether that time has not come. The government agreement states that the cabinet is committed to a two-state solution, but that is difficult if we do not recognise one of those states. That is why we call on this Minister to do something quickly, not to wait any longer. Unfortunately, the conflict between Israel and Palestine is not the only conflict in the Middle East. For example, innocent people in Iraq, Yemen, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Syria and many more countries are still victims of terror every day. Terror groups called Al-Qaeda yesterday are today called Daesh and have another name tomorrow. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that the West has turned the Middle East into a battlefield. Meanwhile we see no way out in this jungle. Weapons are being delivered to subsidiaries of the terrorist PKK, the YPG and PYD. We even see American soldiers walking around in the uniforms of these groups. They must fight it out with Daesh, but we have no guarantee that those same weapons will not be aimed at us tomorrow. My question to the Minister is: can you rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u300	Were you in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u301	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u302	Then I suggest you finish your input first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u303	I am curious about the new Middle East Minister's vision and how he sees the future of the Middle East. Agenda item 2 for the UN Security Council concerns the forgotten and underexposed repression in Central Asia. Rohingya in Myanmar has not existed in dignity for a long time. UN human rights experts talk about murders, rapes and torture on a large scale. 100,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh. An unprecedented repression is also taking place in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. According to the latest reports, Uighurs are obliged to surrender their Qur'an, prayer dress and other things. In addition, they are not allowed to give their children an Islamic name and to have a beard is forbidden. I ask the Minister whether he would like to name the situation of the Rohingya, just as the previous minister did, and do everything he can to combat oppression. I also ask him to add the Uighurs as an item on the UN Security Council's agenda and to take action to counter these repressions. Mr President, I shall conclude. We, like the Netherlands, may be small in terms of surface area, a small country, but that does not mean that we, as a small country, can do great deeds. However, this is only possible if our government stops profiling itself as Trump's butler, Merkel's secretary or Macron's intern. We at DENK think we should put the time of blindly jabbering behind us. We must also dare to say no where necessary and do what we are good at, and that is Dutch diplomacy aimed at conflict prevention and promoting peace and security. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u304	Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer to the section in which Mr Kuzu spoke about the recognition of the state. Recognition of states always leads to big discussions, interesting discussions also often. What gives us a bit of a grip there are the so-called criteria of Montevideo. We've talked about that before. I assume that Mr Kuzu is familiar with that. They have to do, among other things, with the question of whether an area is controlled by a clear entity, whether there is a contiguous geographical unit, and so there are a few more. Now it is noteworthy that the Palestinian State, too, wishes it to be present in the two Palestinian territories. Many of the Montevideo criteria simply cannot be met. However, there is an area that is now autonomous, and that is the Kurdish region in northern Iraq. I ask Mr Kuzu whether he believes that he also deserves independence and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u306	I always find it an interesting little bridge. Mr Sjoerdsma just did that and Mr Ten Broeke does exactly the same. We are talking about a state or an area where there has been oppression for a long time. We are talking about 29 UN resolutions that have been violated. Let me see the first UN resolution indicating that this is the case in the event you appoint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u307	Now Mr Kuzu turns away from the question I asked him. I am also able to mention all kinds of UN resolutions. I am also able to politicise the debate. Mr Kuzu made a large part of his speech about the fact that you need to be consistent. I dare say that foreign policy can hardly be consistent in principle, but it is you who say: be consistent. So we're just gonna go check it out. The Montevideo criteria help us here. I just mentioned a few. They do not apply to a potential Palestinian state, at least until the peace talks have led to conclusions, and to a high degree to the Kurdish state. Are you going to walk away from that conclusion or are you saying, "No, it's not a good time for me either?" I think the latter is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u308	I certainly do not run away from the conclusion as Mr Ten Broeke himself draws. There is also a great deal of discussion about the so-called Kurdish state. Firstly, I would like to ask: are we talking about the Kurdish region in Syria or are we talking about the Kurdish region in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u309	I am talking about the autonomous Kurdish region in Iraq. I think I said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u310	No, you didn't say that. When we talk about the Kurdish region in Iraq, we make it very clear that, at the moment, it is certainly very unwise, given the geopolitical situation, to call a referendum on our own accord and on our own accord, giving people the hope of having a state of their own. That is not the issue at the moment, certainly, as far as we are concerned, because it does not improve peace and security in the region, and may even deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u311	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u312	I just can't get an answer to my question. I have tried to make it as objective as possible and then there comes an answer that actually amounts to: geopolitics does not suit me. Then I really do not understand what Mr Kuzu is talking about, that you must operate consistently. I note that you yourself do not operate consistently, especially when it comes to state recognition, so the next time you leave that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u313	I decide whether to leave something out or not. I certainly do not need Mr Ten Broeke's finger for that. From this story one could assume that Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD, the largest party here in this Chamber, is for the recognition of the Kurdish state. I wonder if that is the case, but we will see that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u314	I took up what Mr Kuzu said about anti-Semitism. He stressed in particular that you can say a lot of ugly things about Israel without being anti-Semitism. After that, I thought he would go into what is anti-Semitism and that it is worrying and how it should be combated. Probably because of lack of time, you didn't get to that. I would like to give you the opportunity to see anti-Semitism and how you wish to see it combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u315	We at DENK are against all forms of discrimination. We dislike hatred, also towards the Jewish community and Jews in general. That is anti-Semitism, as far as I am concerned. Hate based on religion, in this case Judaism. A number of organisations and more and more people in the Netherlands are increasingly criticising Israel's policy under the heading "anti-Semitism." That is what I distance myself from, hates people on the basis of religion, whether they are Jews, Christians, Muslims or Buddhists. We are consistent in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u316	Anti-Semitism is really about Jews. That is why the question is: where does he recognise this and how does he think it should be combated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u317	We see it regularly in football stadiums, with the choirs opposite Jews. Those are all things that need to be fought. Criticism of the Israeli Government, once again, is not, as far as we are concerned, included under this heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u318	Mr Kuzu is right to draw attention to a series of human rights violations. If these take place and international rights are violated, you must also appeal to states. Does he support the SP proposal to ask the Minister to contact his Moroccan counterpart about the arrest and human rights violations of boys who are all fighting for social justice and have done nothing wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u319	As far as the situation in the Rif Mountains is concerned, we make it very clear that we are in favour of better facilities in the Rif area, because there is social inequality at the top of the day. So the better amenities: absolutely. But we've also seen what's happened in the Rif area lately. People have been arrested. And if a call from the minister will help to improve the situation for those people, absolutely necessary. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u320	It's good of you to acknowledge these violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u321	For it is a bit painful to see how angry Mr. Kuzu is all over the world...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u322	Well, Mr. Kuzu isn't angry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u323	No, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u324	Well, that's a reassuring way to say that, but a bit of a boisterous tone. Because I get it very well, don't I: a lot of injustice in the world also makes angry, and rightly so. But you rightly criticize, for example, Netanyahu, which I am largely critical of. But I find it very painful to see, very painful to see that criticism of all those other countries is flying out of your sleeve. But when it comes to Turkey, it almost seems as if you are afraid to mention the word Erdogan. You dare not even say that the country's world champion is locking up journalists, that the country is slipping away, away from a democracy, that in Turkey, when you look at the countryside, no, let me say the other way round, the big cities, the support for what is happening there is decreasing. You're afraid to say that. I do wonder, however, if I agree with Mr Ten Broeke: where is your consistency? Because either you are not consistent, which Mr Ten Broeke is proud of, or you are consistent, but you really are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u325	Look, Mr President, I have always argued in this Chamber that we stand for the promotion of international law. I have also always indicated that there are a number of constitutional developments in which we would like to see improvements. Then we also say at the same time that the way in which, for example, D66 argued that in the past period or the VVD argued that is counterproductive. And in that sense we also say very clearly that it is important in the geopolitics of today's society to improve that relationship rather than deteriorate. This attitude in the government agreement on a different type of partnership for the European Union: yes, there is no membership version A and membership version B, it is or is not, it is access to the European Union or no access to the European Union. These are things that we say are not conducive to achieving the goal that I believe we share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u326	My party would then be called in, and we would not have been conducive to that relationship with Turkey. I must say to Mr Kuzu that we have maintained to the bitter end that there must be a European perspective for Turkey. Until the bitter end, until it was really clear that under this Erdogan Turkey deliberately chooses not to go for the European perspective, to abandon those European values. At that time we also said: boys, this is not the way to do it. I would simply like to challenge Mr Kuzu, because he is doing it again, Madam President, he simply does not mention Erdogan, he does not mention the wrongs: if this party, if DENK stands for the international legal order, is laid down in our Constitution, say it once: not everything is perfect, there is a lot going wrong in Turkey, there is a lot going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u327	I wonder when I have ever claimed that everything is going well in Turkey. That's one. The second is that in many countries in the world things go wrong. In China a lot goes wrong, in Iran things go wrong, in Turkey things go wrong too. But it is also interesting, Mr President, Mr Sjoerdsma's obsession and Mr Ten Broeke's obsession with my person here and with a Turkish background, so that they constantly see in this Chamber, so to speak, not the Dutch flag here in the background, but a Turkish flag to constantly question me. I gotta say, I'm sick of it. I'm just not doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u328	This is gonna hurt me a little bit. Because if there is a party in the Netherlands that has always fought for every Dutchman to be Dutch, then it is my party. If there is a party in the Netherlands that has always stood up against the excesses of Geert Wilders, for example, it is my party. If there is a party in the Netherlands that has always stood for double nationality, regardless of origin, then it is my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u329	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u330	No, Mr. Kuzu, I'm still talking. So don't touch me with these words. I think that is wrong, and I ask you to take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u331	I'm not taking it back. I'll just say it again. For example, in the coalition agreement, we read that future generations must surrender dual nationality. That is a proposal with the signature of D66 underneath. I intend to await the Minister's answers tomorrow. I will therefore table a number of motions, including on the recognition of the Palestinian State. In the past, we have increased together with D66 with regard to the recognition of Palestine as a state. I can't wait to see what D66 is going to vote. I'd say get ready for a movie.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u332	What video? I would have liked to have given the floor to Mr De Roon, but this is also a little tempting, so Mr Sjoerdsma must respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u333	I am happy to make myself up for a video, but I ask one thing from Mr Kuzu: make the film complete and do not cut it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u334	Yeah, we're gonna show all the D66 roommates how they're gonna vote. We will do it completely, before and after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u335	I have here a list of more than 400 names of journalists in Turkey who have all been persecuted or persecuted, punished or punished since the failed coup attempt for expressing their views on events in Turkey. They all have to keep their mouths shut about Mr. Erdogan. Even if you are going to ask me to, I hope not, I am not going to read that list, Mr President, but I would like to mention one name on it, and that is Mr Dündar. Mr. Dündar visited the House of Representatives on 1 November for a discussion with members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. We have had the opportunity to ask Mr Dündar a number of questions. Finally, Mr. Kuzu was given the opportunity to ask a question. And what did Mr. Kuzu say to Mr. Dündar? He said: "Don't answer the questions they all ask, because they are here, and that was the other Members of Parliament who are going to use them. So Mr. Dündar was told by Mr. Kuzu that he too should keep his mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u336	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u337	You'll have the floor in a moment, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u338	I congratulate Mr Kuzu, for he has shown this inimitable clarity in this way, and I would not be better off just being Erdogan's long arm in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u339	It's just not true. I asked two questions to the man during the meeting with Can Dündar here in the Chamber. Those two questions were interpreted by colleagues here in this Chamber as a brutal attack on that gentleman's person. What did I ask you? The coalition agreement still states that we should not import problems from Turkey into the Dutch streets, but what happens next? This gentleman will be received with all due respect. All Members of Parliament thank him and I ask him the second question. What Mr Dündar has done in Turkey is also punishable in the Netherlands. I asked him what his reaction was to that. Then Mrs Karabulut and Mr Omtzigt were, I think, twittering about a "hard attack." None of that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u340	I did not intend to respond, but I sat alongside Mr Kuzu at the relevant session for which we had invited Mr Dündar because he was defending freedom of expression and the free press in Turkey. I do not know what is true and what is not true, but I do know one thing, and that is that Mr Kuzu made our guest a traitor. He shouldn't deny that right now. I don't know if there's a literal report of such a meeting that probably won't be that way, but I was wrong, I was there and I made a video of it! No, the last one isn't true: I didn't make a video of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u341	It's like the studio in Aalsmeer here. It really seems like the studio in Aalsmeer: everyone makes movies here! It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u342	In the past there was a lot of criticism of the films of DENK. I see D66, the PvdA and the SP also make videos, so the trend is taken over. Then you see it happen again. I didn't use the word "treason." I did make a movie myself. You won't see the word "treason." I told you, it was two simple questions. Those two simple questions therefore cause a great deal of disgust among the other political parties. I'm really wondering where the next thing is. Many people in this country, including Dutch voters, ask the question: how can it be that a Turkish minister could not come to this country three or four days before the elections, while the red carpet is then rolled out for a journalist who also imports foreign problems to the Netherlands? A lot of people don't understand that. I would therefore like to put this question to the new Foreign Minister. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u343	This plea completely undermines all the legitimate points made by Mr Kuzu about the Palestinians, about other oppressed peoples, about freedoms and about human rights. You may have this view. I am proud that we can say all this in this Parliament. You have treated Mr Dündar very harshly. The most shocking thing was, of course, that you did not praise his courage because he controlled power and that you were not outraged by the fact that the Turkish government supplied jihadists with weapons. No, you blamed him for being here. My question to Mr Kuzu is as follows. There's been some movies. You were right to talk about the influence and the long arm of all kinds of states, but the Turkish media are also influencing them. A video has been made of it, in which Mr Dündar is thrown away as a traitor and I myself as a terrorist. You've been involved in that a lot. Underneath that video are the most horrible treats. That is a dangerous development. Would you perhaps call in this Chamber for all those people who agree with you on the content, but who go along with that frame of terrorizing others and putting journalists as traitors in the country, journalists who are simply trying to do their job so that we can talk about the content? Can you at least admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u344	Three points. I don't know if you're gonna let me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u345	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u346	I'll try to do it very quickly. The first point is that even before this appeared in any media, Mrs Karabulut came to me to thank me for my presence at that meeting. That's one. So I think it is quite extraordinary that we are now using completely different words during the debate in the Chamber. The second point is that it is punishable if there are expressions that cannot be accepted. I think that this should also be tackled very hard, even when it comes to your person, Mrs Karabulut. Thirdly, at the same time, I would like to say that there should also be a reflection in this Chamber on what happens if you have an opinion that may not be heard in this House of Representatives at the moment. And when you raise that opinion, no matter how many people need to put you down as a traitor and as a state dangerous. Meanwhile I have the predicate "the most dangerous man in the Netherlands." It's right here in front of you, according to a person who regularly shows up on TV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u347	I thanked Mr Kuzu for coming. I just gave you the reason for that. I'm very much in favour of the free speech. I am against the capture of journalists who are critically controlling power, whether in Turkey or here. I am opposed to the repression of peoples, to the repression of any people and therefore to the repression of the Kurdish people in Turkey, where entire cities are being destroyed. You have a different view of business. You support the Erdogan line. In that sense, you are indeed politically the long arm of Erdogan. But you can say all that. I will always defend your right to express your opinion. The only thing I call upon you to do is, please do not participate in this message of hatred, in placing others as enemies, as terrorists and as traitors of the land, because that is dangerous. And yes, I will also fight people who send you that kind of hateful messages, which could put your life in danger. But it would be a good thing if you gave that message, including in the Turkish media.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u348	Fine, then we'll share that point anyway. However, the PKK is a terrorist organisation according to the Netherlands, according to the European Union and according to the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u349	Thank you. That was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-19.u350	Tomorrow evening, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to answer the questions raised on behalf of the government. I thank the MPs and the Minister.
