ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on dividend taxation. Speaking time is four minutes. Before everyone gets the floor, I would like to say that the interruptions are supposed to be short. During the debate on the declaration of government, things had got a little out of hand. Everyone understood that, but it was also a bad example for many colleagues. So I'd say keep it short, otherwise I'm gonna watch it very closely. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver. I would, of course, like to welcome the Prime Minister in trade union K and the people in the public gallery. I call Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about abolishing the dividend tax. We did that two weeks ago with the government statement, with the Financial Reviews, and now it goes on. The debate is not only about taxes but also about democracy. The question that is central to me is: who is the boss in the Netherlands? If we can believe the stories of this Prime Minister, then once upon a time there were four directors of large multinationals who came along with the threat of leaving. In return, they received 1.4 billion tax breaks. That smells like blackmail, I've said before. Companies contradict this, namely that they would not have threatened to leave at all. Then there is no blackmail, but then every argument of this Prime Minister falls away to give away 1.4 billion. To be honest, I don't know what's worse. Mr. Chairman. The decision on abolishing the dividend tax is, to say the least, shady. It's not transparent. The dividend tax has rapidly changed from a smudge on the blazing of this new cabinet into an open wound for this new coalition. This debate is about the credibility of the cabinet, but in particular about the credibility of this Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In recent debates, in the various letters we have asked and in the written questions that have been asked many, many, many questions have already been raised, but the satisfactory answers are not really yet. That is why today I have a list of ten questions to which I would like answers in this debate. 1. If the Prime Minister felt that it was necessary to do so, why wasn't this measure in the VVD's election programme? 2. On 8 November, the NOS reports that Shell, AkzoNobel, Unilever and Philips have called for the abolition of the dividend tax. Is this true? 3. Are there any other companies in addition to these four companies that have called for this? If so, which one? 4. By whom, with whom, when and how was the dividend tax discussed during the formation? 5. In the debate on the government statement, the Prime Minister said that he believes that this measure is important to keep companies here. But on November 9 Philips indicated that he was neutral and that the departure from the Netherlands is nonsense. How does the Prime Minister rhyme these statements with his deepest fibers? 6. In the letter of 9 November, the Prime Minister mentions the Brexit. I particularly know stories from companies that are considering leaving the United Kingdom. Can you call me companies that are actually considering moving to the United Kingdom, or at least indicate how many companies would indicate that? 7. Today, the analysis by SOMO, the Stichting Onderzoek Multinationale Entrepreneurij, shows that almost 1.1 billion out of 1.4 billion are presented to tax administrations abroad. Can the Prime Minister confirm these figures? 8. What economic logic is there that if we give money to foreign tax authorities there will be positive consequences for our locational environment? 9. And this is an important one. The provision of information to the House of Representatives. On what basis have you made the choice, which documents for internal reflection and which documents for internal reflection are not shared with the Lower House and were therefore added to the formation file? 10. Are there any opinions delivered at the formation table or at side tables on the dividend tax of officials, outgoing directors, advisers or other organisations, memos that deal with the dividend tax? Why weren't these shared with the room? If there are any, we'd still like to receive them. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. There is no one in the Netherlands who still believes that abolishing the dividend tax is a sensible measure. No one in the opposition, I sense no enthusiasm among coalition partners, no one in science, no one in society. Only this Prime Minister continues to believe, to the very depths of his fibres, that abolishing the dividend tax is sensible. Mr. Rutte, I ask through you, Mr. Rutte, don't make this a prestige contest. Return to your steps. Don't give 1.4 billion to foreign tax administrations and investors, but give it back to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Madam President. A guess, Mr Dijkhoff called it. An assessment, said the Minister of Finance. CDA said it wasn't our idea. No one has the killing argument, the Secretary of State said. Development aid for American multinationals and it was a melon to swallow, the Christian Union said. There is indeed no hard evidence, said the Minister of Finance. But that joke costs our society 1,400 million euros. 1,400 million euros, every year. And the question is, why is this happening? Can the Prime Minister confirm that Shell, Akzo, Unilever and Philips lobbied for the abolition? Or were there other companies? Who exactly threatened to leave the Netherlands? The cabinet and the coalition parties still cannot explain all this. It wasn't in any election program either. I've seen several arguments come along in the last few days. Multinationals here are related to Brexit. Akzo and Shell's threat that they might go to London. That's really not credible. The United Kingdom is losing its access to the European internal market and if Akzo and Shell were purely fiscally driven, they would have been long gone, because the United Kingdom has not been levying dividends for years. So it's a bullshit argument. And here the Dutch government and Prime Minister Rutte in particular are making themselves very vulnerable and blackmailable. Because what if the lobby comes with the demand that corporate tax will have to go even further down, otherwise we will leave abroad? So what's the Prime Minister gonna do? Yes, sir, yes, ma'am, no, we're going to do that, we're going to go down even further. Last week's question to Minister Hoekstra, during the financial considerations, where the border is exactly, we did not get an answer. So I'm just gonna ask the Prime Minister. Where's the border? Another argument: it would be good for employment. Now the facts. There is no scientific evidence that reducing or abolishing the dividend tax leads to employment. The Roosevelt Institute examined the results of reducing the dividend tax in the United States from 38.6% to 15%. Result: no impact on employment, no additional investment and no additional wage increase for employees. Moreover, if that had a proven effect, the dividend tax would have been abolished long and wide in all our neighbouring countries. However, the dividend tax is much higher than in the Netherlands: in Spain 19%, in Belgium 23%, in Austria, Germany and Denmark 27% and in France and the United States 30%. In addition, employment fell by 74% between 1985 and 2012. Another argument: it's part of the tax settlement environment. We do businesses and ourselves short when we only look at tax facilities. A well-educated population, a good infrastructure, a functioning rule of law, democracy and cultural facilities provide a good location climate. The fiscal climate in South Sudan really does not attract companies, because there is a bitter war there. Madam President. In the search for arguments, the Prime Minister also offended Belgium. Has the Prime Minister apologized yet? Finally, an argument is: new insight acquired during the formation period. Tell that to the cat. The lobby is over ten years old, but Mark Rutte didn't have the guts to put it in the election program. Finally, Mr President. The only one who is really convinced to help his friends, even after the SOMO report, I would like a response from the Prime Minister to that report, the Prime Minister. In his deepest fibers, he feels the need. He is right behind this measure. Now that gives me hope. Ask Opstelten, Bitches, Weekers, Van der Steur and Emperor, if Rutte square is behind you, you'll be gone in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. Barely two weeks after his arrival, the cabinet makes an unruly impression. There are several answers to the question of why the large company received 1.4 billion: because we need to be economical on our silver table, because it is good for our locational climate, because it provides jobs, to absorb the Brexit, because otherwise we will slide to Belgian level. These are all misdemeanors. According to the Central Planning Bureau, it's not gonna pay off and it's just gonna cost a lot of money. Why has this cabinet, which is usually so enthusiastic about the CPB's credit transfers, in this case turned the opinions upside down? Meanwhile, journalistic spit work has shown that the big business has just got its way. Afraid by the hostile bids on AkzoNobel and Unilever, the old boys network has demanded more protection from Mr Rutte. Therefore, and for this reason alone, the dividend tax has been abolished. Unilever's hand is clearly visible here. Unilever has promised to close one of its two headquarters, in London and Rotterdam, as a maker of Kraft's takeover. A fierce battle behind the scenes between Mark Rutte and Theresa May ignited. The outcome: The Netherlands, like the United Kingdom, abolishes its dividend tax and gives foreign shareholders a gift of 1.4 billion euros. Why doesn't the Prime Minister just admit it? Why doesn't he just say that he visited Mr Dekkers of Unilever and Mr Burgmans of AkzoNobel? And why does he not recognise that he is adapting laws to meet the interests of a few multinationals? Mr. Chairman. This is worthy of a banana republic. The decision-making process is not transparent and it is an arbitrary decision. The Netherlands has been a welfare state for multinationals and polluters for years. Look at the extremely low energy costs for large consumers, the heavily reduced corporate rates, the many deductions for foreign companies, not to mention the astronomical environmental costs that the bio-industry of this cabinet may continue to bear. Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurship, disruptive innovation and sustainability come not from multinationals but from start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. From the innovators, not the conservatives. Regiving tax advantages to fossil multinationals is a blow to the future entrepreneurs. With a climate crisis that is unprecedented, we could spend that EUR 1.4 billion so much better. What about a warm clean-up of the bio-industry or the earlier closure of coal plants? Or invest in sustainability and education? Can the Prime Minister explain to the electorate and to us why this spending of taxpayers' money was chosen? Perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to demonstrate the social cost-benefit analysis underlying this decision. Mr. Chairman. My final point. Multinationals turn into ATMs for shareholders if you abolish the dividend tax. This is evident from research conducted by Chetty and Saez in 2005. Lots of profit, little people and planet. This is contrary to the green ambitions of the cabinet and does not fit in with our Rhineland-Palatinate tradition, in which it is not just about shareholders. Is the Prime Minister familiar with this study and, if so, why did the Cabinet ignore this study? Is it a serious reason for the cabinet to review the abolition? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr President, you will not be surprised that I also believe that the bio-industry should be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last week's letter from Prime Minister Rutte on dividend taxation began as follows: "The formation is the perfect moment to see what essential policy changes are needed and possible to strengthen the Netherlands." Do you really think that a decision on the abolition of dividend taxes and the Hills Act should be negotiated, whereas these intentions were completely unknown to the electorate? What exactly does the Prime Minister think is the meaning of election programmes and election campaigns? Is this democracy à la Rutte? With regard to the dividend tax, how much of the 1.4 billion is going to go to the treasury of Trump and Rutte, among others, and how much to foreign investors? According to today's FD, both Finance and the Tax Administration are silent about this. We can't know. The Hillen Act concerns 1 million low-cost Dutch homeowners who are going to pay for a gift to the US government in particular. People who have lived economically in the knowledge that there would be no addition and therefore have repaid their mortgage. Especially older people who want to have as little permanent burden as possible in view of the old age; care is already expensive enough. Many people with such a property have AOW and a small pension and are therefore relatively hard hit. Rutte and Buma are now proposing the payoff. They want to kill Hills, and they want to kill Hills with retroactive effect! In any case, there must now be an exception for those 1 million existing cases, 1 million people. They should be able to rely on the confidence generated. How do you lose your constituents and how do you lose the majority in the Senate? Isn't the redemption penalty the way to moving your own apartment to box 3? The abolition of the Hills Act will then be Troy's horse. Wiegel said about the payoff: that reeks of improper administration. He's coming to the hearing tomorrow at the invitation of 50PLUS on the payoff. Mr. Chairman. It remains a disgrace at the start of this cabinet: pampering foreign governments with the gift of dividend tax and grabing their own voters with the abolition of the Hills Act. No party dared to campaign for the abolition of the dividend tax. Rutte's cabinet therefore appears, very contemporary, on a remotely operated car. Prime Minister Rutte is handing over the joystick to a bunch of corporate captains, with the dividend tax as a gift, and then to a bunch of diligent civil servants, and as a result the payoff. We invite him himself to return, as it should be a Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. If you don't, there's gonna be chunks. My group has the following questions. Who brought about the abolition of the Hills Act and how did that decision come about? Rutte said in Etten-Leur that the proposal didn't come from him. So it wasn't him, but who was? I am now asking Rutte: were you at the dividend tax and, for example, did you notice any support from the CDA? That's what I want to know. Do you still want the dividend tax to be assessed by the Planbureau and compared with a 2% reduction in the rate of corporation tax? Such a comparison must be made very simple. But there is no comparison. Was the Ministry of Finance involved in the preparation of the decision? If so, did it have talks with the negotiators or only with the Prime Minister? Have cases been put on paper and discussed? We want to know. Why is the Netherlands starting a new race to the bottom through the dividend tax? Why are we suddenly putting the dividend tax on the table as a sort of super joker on top of the reduction in corporation tax? Mr. Chairman. My advice to the Prime Minister is: simply raise dividend taxes and put the redemption penalty in your pocket as soon as possible. The Hills Act only brings you 75 million, but also a cargo load of electoral misery, all under the motto "confidence in the future." I am now holding up the rag with which the elderly and 1 million homeowners are taken away from their exemption. They're turning in 1 billion a year for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	Madam President. Secret billion-dollar deals between politicians and multinationals. You're not making it up. It's like an episode of House of Cards starring Prime Minister Rutte, the man who would rather give billions of euros away to big companies and foreign investors and governments than spend all that money on the Dutch. For multinationals, the Vpb rates are reduced and for foreign shareholders of large companies the dividend tax is abolished. But for the ordinary Dutchman the VAT is increased, the care premium goes up and the energy bill goes up. I can go on like this for a while. Mr. Chairman. What could you do for the ordinary people in this country with the EUR 1.4 billion that is now being given to foreign investors? You could, I say to the Prime Minister, lower your own risk. You could lower the rents. You could lower the energy tax instead of raise it. These are all measures that are of benefit to Dutch citizens. Take your pick. Choose our own people and stop bashing all these foreign shareholders. But no, Madam President, Prime Minister Rutte does not see anything like that. In his view, the suspension of the dividend tax is good for the Netherlands. And why? He doesn't know that. The CPB doesn't know either. Economists don't know either. And the voters in the Netherlands don't get it at all. But Mr. Rutte did. He's got it from hearsay. He believes in every fiber. But who's gonna believe him? Who still believes Prime Minister Rutte, the man of false promises? This is yet another page from the Prime Minister's big cover book. Because not one, not one ordinary Dutchman has any use for this. The only ones that are getting better are those who can put 1.5 billion in their pockets. These are foreign shareholders, foreign governments, the friends of the VVD. 'Cause what turns out to be? If we can believe the media reports, it's the foreign shareholders of Unilever, of Shell, of Akzo. Those are the people for whom this cabinet abolishes the dividend tax. Prime Minister Rutte is from Unilever himself. He worked there for ten years. The informant of this cabinet, Mr. Zalm, also a VVD'er, is Commissioner at Shell. Another VVD-prominent, Mr Ben Verwaayen, a Prime Minister's boyfriend, is now Commissioner at Akzo. I heard some of my colleagues talking about blackmail, but it's not blackmail at all. It's old-boy crispy bread. It's the euros playing each other. It is like Sicily, the Mafia, Palermo by the sea: a prime minister who abandons his own people but controls a tax discount of EUR 1.5 billion for foreign shareholders of his multinational friends where his partymates have nice jobs. That is the reality. And how did the Prime Minister and how did the coalition partners reach this decision? No one can know that. And what companies did they talk to? No one can hear it. And where are all those documents? No one can see them. This cabinet is throwing away nearly 1.5 billion euros, money from the Dutch taxpayer, while there is zero evidence that it will only produce one job. That's purely delusional. I can't call it any other way. If you are dealing with taxpayers' money in such an irresponsible way, then it is only in the whole country and also in this house that you can count on a huge disapproval. I am telling you that as far as the PVV Group is concerned, this measure must be withdrawn today. If the Prime Minister does not withdraw this measure today, I will table a motion of censure on behalf of the PVV and many Dutch people in my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr President, thank you. Cicero, the Roman lawyer, philosopher and politician, said it so nicely: "Everyone can go astray, but only fools persist in their error." The way this cabinet perseveres in its error takes mythical forms. History repeats itself: until now, every Rutte cabinet had a hair in the soup, to speak in the words of the Prime Minister himself. Rutte I came in May 2012 with the so-called commuter tax, a tax on commuting. This hair in the soup was fished out a few months later and thrown away. Rutte II came in October 2012 with his dramatic income-dependent care premium. This Prime Minister's political antenna abandoned him. His own supporters rebelled. This hair in the soup was fished out a few weeks later. Rutte III came up a few weeks ago with the idea of providing 1.4 billion as a capitalist subsidy to foreign multinationals and shareholders. According to the CPB, this measure does not produce anything and the financial advantage comes from abroad. In short, another hair in the soup. Once again the political antennas have failed, although the political resistance to this plan was not so difficult to predict. Let's take another look at the background. "It's a gamble," said Klaas Dijkhoff of the VVD. That's not my hobby. "AkzoNobel and the possible takeover by PPG played a role," said Minister Hoekstra. "I don't have a killing argument yet," he added. "I've heard conversations that companies need this," said Prime Minister Rutte. "And it concerns 40% of Dutch jobs," he said after that. No further justification, but fake news and scary-making, it seems. "We can make foreign hostile takeovers more difficult," said spokesperson Pieter Ommzigt of the CDA, but I fear that in his drive to defend the policy, he makes an error of assessment. "This is a total package," said Steven van Weyenberg. The Christian Union called it "a melon to swallow" and "development money for British and American shareholders." Some said, "We weren't there; we agreed on this." A coalition member admitted it equestrianly; the newspaper said: "Of course this is blackmail, but it is about greater interests." Which ones are, we don't see. In short, the defense of the issue of this 1.4 billion is worse than that of the Dutch team and we know how that ended. There is no clear line in supporting the coalition spokesmen. Surely these cannot be serious reasons for taking EUR 1.4 billion in taxpayers' money and throwing it away? No rational arguments, except naive belief in big business. Is this how right with the Bible is going to rule from now on? Mr. Chairman. Is the Prime Minister willing to fish this hair out of the soup and throw it in the trash? I feel a motion on this point on which a roll-call vote is taking place. The Netherlands is a very attractive country for foreign companies. Every year around 350 companies come here, from the US, from the UK and from all over the world. They come here for the low costs, to set up a company, for the high level of education, for the infrastructure, for the ICT, for the way we judge each other. It's all paid with taxpayers' money. Is it true that for these companies, I ask the Prime Minister, the dividend tax did not play a role or did not play a role? Mr President, I will conclude. EUR 1.4 billion is a lot of money, which we can do a lot of good for our country. There are no valid and reliable arguments showing why we can present this gift to foreign shareholders. Mr. President, we're not Santa Claus, are we? We have a good Dutch saying: better half turned than completely lost. Away with this unnecessary, unholy and undemocratic waste of money. Put this hair in the soup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet pays lip service to the ordinary Dutchman. With the national anthem and some anointing lyrics we are kept sweet, but meanwhile the groceries become more expensive, meanwhile tenants get less rent allowance, meanwhile you have to work below the minimum wage if you have a limit and in the meantime there is no money for the demands of our children's teachers. What is it? A big shiny Sinterklaas gift for foreign investors. Value: EUR 1.4 billion. I ask the government: does the Prime Minister know who will be the recipient of this gift? Is it true that Donald Trump will be able to rewrite the lion's share of this amount? How much goes on aggressive hedge funds? Has anyone thought at all about the impact of this measure? We can be brief about positive effects. They don't see economists. Fiscalists don't see them. The Central Planning Office doesn't see them. Most politicians don't see them. What effect does it have? The Netherlands is leading the race to the bottom. The week the Paradise Papers were leaking, we're in bad shape. This is bad for the reputation of the Netherlands as a country of tax avoidance. Mr. Chairman. There has been lobbying for ten years for this tax to be abolished, but it is not in any election programme. We have to do this because the Prime Minister heard it in conversations. Mr President, the seat of the speaker is falling further and further down. It would be nice if it weren't lowered further. I understand it's a tricky message I have, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	We will stop your speaking time. It's gonna be okay. I don't know what's going on, but I see it's being solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr President, we were talking about a race to the bottom. I find it extremely sad that we have to do it with conversations with anonymous premier whisperers. I'm starting to want to know who they were. What was said there? Is there or isn't there a threat of leaving? If that is not the case, I would like to rule that out categorically. Therefore, I do not want to be denied that I would be irresponsible in dealing with the jobs in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The defence of this proposal from the coalition has been crooked. The VVD Group calls it a "gambling." The Prime Minister calls it an "need." The CDA Group says it wasn't our idea. Buma says, yes, 2 million jobs. Pechtold doesn't say anything at first, and then we came up with it together. The Christian Union is fair. He said it was a melon to swallow. After five weeks of muddying, shifting arguments and twisting, at the end of the day only one argument stands. That is the argument given by the Prime Minister, namely that he believes it, that he believes it to the depths of his fibers. So, based on his faith, we're going to give away EUR 1.4 billion. Is that Mark Rutte or did Jomanda move in the tower? We're not gonna give this money away based on this man's faith, are we? I urge the coalition parties to spend this money in the Netherlands; put it in good care, in our children's schools, to safety in the streets. These are all location factors that all Dutch people have a lot of use for. But if you persist, without arguments, do not be surprised at cynicism in politics. No more crocodile tears about restoring trust. Don't be surprised by the anger of many Dutch people when you show at the same time that you are listening to the multinationals, but not to the needs of people now and here in the Netherlands. Mr President, the Opinion of the Labour Party: delete this measure, do not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	Madam President. Last Friday evening I was a guest on a SGP evening in Ooltgensplaat, on the beautiful island of Goeree-Overflakkee. It was a beautiful evening about political topicality, security, money for families, sustainability, that kind of subjects. During the evening the dividend tax came around the corner. I told the House that when the SGP Group went through the coalition agreement, we started putting in hand some pluses and minuses with our own election programme. Often that goes smoothly, but sometimes you notice that there are topics that do not lend themselves to an immediate plus or minus, because they are not points in your own election program. The abolition of the dividend tax is a good example of this. For us, it is not a plan to shoot off immediately; the subject, an attractive location environment for companies that create many jobs, is too important for that. But it is also not a plan to embrace immediately; it costs a lot of money and then it is important to check whether it is really necessary. Therefore, a question mark. Fortunately, we are served at our beck and call to think about it, because we have a debate on it every week since the office took office: first with the declaration of government, then with the Financial Reviews and now with a new debate. And every time, you get a little wiser. Fortunately, we do not have to jump to any conclusions, because it is only a year from now that we will have to decide on the next Millions Note. I was about to say "Melon note," Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is mainly about transparency. You wonder how you actually form your opinion. In that context, I have some small revelations to do myself. After that SGP evening in Ooltgensplaat I was approached by a young man, type "ordinary, normal Dutchman," who told me that he works at Shell Moerdijk. He said: will you please consider that it is not just about my job, but that the baker in the neighborhood, for example, also makes a lot of money from our company? "Well, indeed, that's certainly a point to consider," so I admitted. After all, not only the big boys on the Zuidas are making money from international companies, but also the middlemen in the neighborhood. For that it is interesting to know, and I ask the Prime Minister whether there is more insight into the value that this offers to other companies. When I drove home after the nice evening in Ooltgensplaat, I had a good friend from Nijkerk on the phone. He knows his way around the maze of our tax laws. This brings me to my second unveiling on a possible influence on our position. He gave the advice that the dividend tax plans should be explicitly seen in a broader context. He said that the abolition could be useful for our competitiveness, but is this also in balance with the reduction of the burden on other entrepreneurs and with the tax burden on families? And: is it not possible to achieve the same goal with less money, so to fight that good locational climate for each other in a different way? I told my good friend that Prime Minister Rutte said this in the General Political Reviews, namely that you should not look at the measures in isolation, but rather at a broader picture. This broader picture fits in very well for us with the question of what this means for the relief of burdens for other companies, especially for smaller companies, and for the relief of burdens for families. For the SGP, the key issue is not who lobbied the coalition parties at exactly what time for the abolition of the dividend tax. I heard Cicero was just mentioned. I immediately got this quote from Cicero in mind: "arguments must weigh, not count." That is what this is all about: weighing up what those arguments are. Frankly, for us, it was not a thunderbolt in the clear sky that VNO-NCW and large companies have advocated this. Much more important is the question of how convincing and weighty these arguments for abolition are. How necessary and how effective is this measure to achieve an attractive locational environment? And we really haven't figured that out yet. That is why we are curious about the answers of the cabinet, not only today but also in the time of an orderly legal process. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	Madam President. The Netherlands is currently doing well economically. At the same time, we know that this is not self-evident. Underneath the surface you still taste uncertainty. You sure you're gonna be okay? Is the future as good as it is now? At this very moment, therefore, politics must make the strategic choices for the future, for the long term. So does this coalition. We reduce citizens' taxes by EUR 5 billion to increase purchasing power. That's good for the economy. We strengthen SMEs, for example by finally reducing the obligation to pay wages in case of illness. We're making it more attractive to hire staff again. We also reduce taxes for SMEs, the Ib entrepreneur via income tax and the Vpb entrepreneur by reducing corporate tax. We do not want to forget that in the Netherlands we also have 2 million people working at internationally oriented companies, ordinary Dutch people who earn their living there. We also derive a bit of national feeling from it. Unfortunately, you find that too often when things have gone wrong. Think of the traumatic bankruptcy of Fokker at the time, or the humiliating division of ABN AMRO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	A brief interruption by Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	On the contrary, many SMEs are very upset about this measure. They're gonna pay a higher rate in box 2. The step in the Vpb is actually getting worse and there is a VAT increase. To be honest, I do not think it is very strong to include this measure. Would Mr Buma be willing to consider a better proposal for SMEs? Last time he said it was an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	First of all, I would like to explain why the measure we are taking is so extremely important, including for SMEs. I am surprised that so many people, including in this Chamber and not just you, do not have the least willingness to look at the total of the decisions we have to make. This is not just about dividend taxation. This is about whether the Netherlands, not only now but also in the future, can make money to do the good things that need to be done, so that we can have the care. We know that the Netherlands is an international economy. We know that. That was also the case in the previous period. There are consequences. We can make two choices. We leave it at that and then we know that in these uncertain times companies will disappear and new ones won't come. That's your choice. I'm afraid to take that risk, and I'm not gonna take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	That is neither an answer to the question nor a rather arrogant frightening story. Mr Buma says that he is afraid to make that choice. Last time he said it was an assessment. That was an honest moment. It's an assessment. Now that you see that SMEs are relatively worse off, have to pay more taxes while multinationals get an advantage, I ask Mr Buma if he is willing to say that he is not prepared to listen to another assessment, with a measure that according to economists, fiscalists and many others has a positive effect on employment in the Netherlands. For that is what Mr Buma says he is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	I believe that Mr Asscher has quickly turned to the big words, because SMEs have reduced their burdens. You don't want to say that, but it's there. I mentioned a number of measures which are at the heart of the problems faced by SMEs. Many SMEs do not employ so many people, but they no longer employ people. You've run into that problem, and rightly so. That's what we're gonna do. In fact, we are going to tackle this whole labour market paragraph, which you have already been working on and which causes problems for SMEs. If SMEs do not employ people, it is often an Ib entrepreneur. We'll see to it that income tax is reduced. So you're selling bullshit stories. You shouldn't do that. I will mention some of your colleagues who know why this is so important. This wasn't just made up. This is incredibly important. We should be politically willing to take the long term view of the future of our country through short-term images. I don't yet taste that everyone is willing to do that. I'm insisting we do that. And you should, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	In conclusion, Mr Buma is helping Rutte, but doing so in an incredibly inelegant way. In an ordinary question he says that they are bullshit stories and that he only looks at the future of the Netherlands, while he knows damn well that there is no support for this gift of 1.4 billion. Then it really is not appropriate for Mr Buma himself to use this kind of big words; that really does not suit him. I asked a very ordinary question, not on my behalf, but on behalf of many SMEs who are angry about this measure for the multinationals. It looks very bad on Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	I do not agree to debate this tour, because SMEs will be given relief. For example, employers' costs are reduced. The Ib-loads are decreasing. It's just not true that there's a tax increase for that. You mentioned the VAT. This measure is intended precisely to reduce taxes on labour. The entrepreneur is, therefore, greatly supported and should be. That is at the heart of the policy. The only question is, if you do, don't you want the other thing, too? Yeah, that's the cabinet's thesis. You can't rely on the Netherlands only on small companies. We have a number of big companies. I would like to go into that further in a moment. Luckily, I still have some speaking time. The dividend tax was not the subject of discussion. The question of discussion has been: are we, as politicians, in a world that is so uncertain and that is changing, prepared to make those choices that will ensure that all those millions of people still have their jobs in ten years' time, even though the entire opposition is going to cry out that it is a disgrace? Because, of course, everyone knew that would happen. But I call on the opposition to realise that it is also about the future of a lot of Dutch people who cannot make their voices heard directly, but who can only make that voice heard through people who stand up for them, for example in companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u27	However, I find it worrying that the dividend tax was not the discussion point at the formation table. There is 1.4 billion spent, but that was not the discussion. The whole cabinet, and also Buma now, points out that you have to look at the overall picture: look at everything we do for the location climate. So let me reverse the reasoning: what happens if we remove the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u28	This is a debate method. First a whole theorem is posted, hoping that you do not go into that, and then a question is asked. I should like to comment on the first part of your statement. The second is a question. The first part of your statement is that I said that we did not discuss the dividend tax as such. That's what you're hyper angry about. What we have discussed is the responsibility, which I really feel resting on my shoulders, and I noticed that colleagues were also being asked to ensure that we also have jobs in the Netherlands in the long term through all short-term images. We live in a world with a very open economy, in which capital flies all over the world. Do you know what the trouble is? It is simply not certain and it is not natural that in ten years' time the Netherlands will still have the strength it has. You don't believe that, you think: whatever. But I'm saying this is important. That's why a whole package was made. Maybe I can ask you about that, too. You are only talking about reducing the tax by 1.4 billion by abolishing the dividend tax. But it is an increase in tax by 1.4 billion by reducing the deductibility of interest. What do we do with that? This makes external capital more expensive and its own capital cheaper. You may be smiling here, but this is serious business. This is about serious choices for the future. It would be helpful if you realized that today is not a chat for the stage. The question is not how we can make it all as crazy as possible, but how we, as politicians together, ensure that in times of uncertainty the Brexit has often been mentioned as a robust economy in ten or twenty years' time, so that we can continue to pay for the care, measures against climate change and education for our Dutch. That's what's in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr Buma hasn't done that in a long time. I do not think there is anyone here from the opposition, Mr Asscher, nor does Mr Roemer, anyone who disputes that you should look at the long term, who disputes that we are living in an open economy and who disputes that we must do everything we can to boost employment in the Netherlands. The discussion we are having is about the effectiveness of the measure. I asked a question about that. This cabinet has decided to transfer 1.4 billion to large multinationals via the dividend tax. We also see today that it mainly goes to foreign tax administrations and foreign investors. My question is: what would happen if you did not take this measure and lift it out of the whole structure? In fact, Mr Buma has already given an indirect answer to that question. He says: "On the one hand there will be burdens on business. Europe has to do that. That is what we agreed on in Europe. This is intended to prevent tax avoidance. Somehow we had to give money back to that same business." So that was what was at the heart of it and not the question of whether it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u30	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u31	My question to Mr Buma is therefore once again whether he can indicate how reducing or abolishing the dividend tax contributes to employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u32	My input is about that, so I'll get to that. It is good that I can read my contribution through an interruption by Mr Klaver. The world's capital is going around. The Netherlands is a small country, but has very large companies that collect their capital internationally. We can like that or not. You're actually saying that doesn't matter. That is the consequence if we do not move forward and continue. Abolishing the dividend tax is a measure that, in the context of many more measures, makes companies that are mainly internationally dependent on shares that we can't want, but that's why we have to say: The Netherlands is the country we want to go to from all countries around the world. Why should this be the case? Why does that play out like that? As you know, there is a potential Brexit. Companies are choosing. Companies look at different countries. The Netherlands has a number of major limitations. That is, for example, the small population. As a result, companies will opt for other countries more quickly. England already has no dividend tax and an environment that has always been strong for business. Those are advantages of England, which has the disadvantage of Brexit. Then you can say, although I honestly do not understand how you can be so irresponsible, it does not matter, but it does matter. This is one of the things. VNO-NCW said it. Shell told me. They don't do that for fun. They do that because it's about jobs. At a time when things are going well economically, I am in favour of making the choices that are essential for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u33	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u34	That was a very long answer, but it is not an answer to my question. In addition, Mr Buma is really in a position to give something back to business. Mr Buma is talking about the broadening of the base, which will mean that companies will no longer have the interest deduction. Where does it strike, Mr. Buma? This is particularly striking for Dutch companies and for housing corporations. And who's gonna get the money back? These are foreign tax authorities and foreign shareholders! You're trying to make a round with weight increases on one side and the way they get it back on the other. Yes, Dutch companies get burden increases and foreign investors and foreign tax administrations get it back. This has nothing to do with orderly economic policy. This is simply the practice of hobbies and the participation in lobbies of large multinationals, which mean nothing at all for the future of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u35	I think the latter is a sentence that you should reconsider. I find it very easy to go along with the discussion that Shell is a company that does not mean anything to the Netherlands, but we know that it is not true. Does Phillips mean nothing to the Netherlands? Does AkzoNobel mean nothing to the Netherlands? Does Unilever mean nothing to the Netherlands? That's not true. Why isn't it true? 'Cause there's so many people working there. I believe that, as a policy, we have a responsibility to those people, sometimes even if it does not sound so easy to take measures, for the future of those people who keep jobs here. I think that should be the basic reason why we are in politics: not for the picture and not for the picture, but for the real jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Van Rooijen. A brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u37	The question that intrigues me is who convinced Mr Buma during the negotiations. In other words, has the Ministry of Finance come up with concrete examples, with cases, black-and-white and for and against, which you have said: now that I hear it, should we seriously consider it? That's the question. That's the question. I don't want to look at everything. All other measures are true. I agree. The question is: is it worth using 1.4 billion a year, 6 billion in the four years of this cabinet? I asked the question: is it not better to reduce corporate tax? And that's what happened. But in addition to that, what is the purpose of the dividend tax? I have a specific question. I am not talking about companies, but if Tata and Thyssen merge in the coming period, do you really think they are wondering in Germany and in England...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u39	The dividend tax, where are we going? Do you think that a merger between Akzo and an American company will say: now that the dividend tax is abolished, we are putting the head office in the Netherlands? In the case of a merger, it is at a head office and between councils about very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr Van Rooijen, we have just agreed that the interruptions must be really short. That doesn't just apply to you, it applies to everyone. I don't want any long introductions. The same goes for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u41	Yeah, but the tricky thing about these interruptions is that there's so much in it that if I leave that undefeated, it'll lead a life of its own. That might even be part of the idea. That's why I'd like to answer these multiple interruptions. So I'm gonna do that. The first question asked by Mr Van Rooijen concerns the two points raised by the critics in this debate. First of all, how did you make it all up? Secondly, but that is apparently less relevant..... is it a good measure? After all, it can't be both true. Either we should have been advised otherwise or we shouldn't have. I say exactly the same thing about doing what I said in the debate on the declaration of government. And just now. There's a Brexit around us. And know what the point of that Brexit is, to mention that example: there are still people, including in this Chamber, who think that Brexit is going to mean a flourishing economic future for England. That's an assessment. But I don't make it. I'd rather be on the other side. Here is also an assessment: because of this Brexit all kinds of companies are going to think about where they want to go. And the chances of England being as popular as it was are getting smaller. They can go to America, for example. That's an assessment, too. But the estimation that the chance of big companies choosing the Netherlands is naturally smaller than they choose Germany or France, is not so crazy to make. These countries are larger and also have a larger internal market. So you have to do something for it. So the question is: if we want to keep these people's jobs in the Netherlands, that's what it's about; it's not about the companies, but about the jobs, are we willing to make choices that might not seem necessary in the short term? You ask yourself what it is necessary for, but in your heart you also know that it is necessary to get these companies here. Now I've answered one part of the question. Given the time, I haven't answered the second part yet. That was about Akzo. I can always answer that part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u42	I would also like an answer to that second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u43	Okay, I'll keep going. That point about Akzo is a very interesting one. I'll be surprised. I really think that is an example of how, in politics, we can all make a wrong decision if we just start from the images. At present, there is a potential loss of many jobs at AkzoNobel. Sorry, it wasn't AkzoNobel. It was Tata Steel. I was just saying it wrong. Very recently the SP went to the gate with the message: these jobs must remain in the Netherlands. I think that was in November. It's handy and it looks nice. But here is the suffering long ago. 'Cause what happened? Hoogovens has been taken over by Tata Steel. The core is that the decision-making process is no longer in the Netherlands. It's not up to us anymore. When were we supposed to perform? The moment those takeovers took place. We need to get ahead of that. We need to get ahead of companies disappearing and their decisions disappearing. I have nothing to do with all those political parties that, at the moment a company closes, stand at the gate and say, "We're on your side." I prefer to be on the side of the workers at the moment it matters, despite your criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u44	That goes for us, too. But my question is: do you really think that after the merger between Tata and ThyssenKrupp, which is to come, the head office will be in the Netherlands, if we abolish the dividend tax? That head office is certainly not going to be in England, because that would be very loss-making. Farthest chance is it's gonna be in Dortmund. These are very different considerations, such as the fact that it is large there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's possible. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u46	But why...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u47	The odds of it coming here are bigger. The most interesting thing about your point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u48	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u49	When I told you to make strategic choices right now, you said yes. It's a strategic choice now. I don't know what happens in boardrooms. I know one thing: I am prepared to look for the opportunities and I am not prepared to take the risks, because I find that irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u50	You have to be realistic. The chances that "Tata-Thyssen" will stay in the Netherlands and that Akzo will stay in the Netherlands after a merger with the American company due to the abolition of the dividend tax is very small. Then you have to take that into account, realistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u51	I don't know. I have no idea what the situation is with Thyssen, but I think that the chances of Thyssen staying in Germany are considerable. Why? Because Germany is a larger country and has advantages by nature. So we have to do something to get better. Maybe you don't care and you say, "They'll figure it out." I do care, because I prefer that decision-making power here. We are doing more for that, because we are also going to tighten up the rules on takeovers. That's in the whole package, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u52	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u53	You can't say I don't care, Mr Buma. It is about whether the dividend tax is the turning point, the turning point for the question of whether the head office in the Netherlands is to be established in a new place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u54	What I have tried to say from the outset is that it is a package of measures. So it's not one thing. So I wouldn't think it wise to say that it's one thing, because we're doing more. We're making it harder for a company to be taken over. Remember: you were all bouncing when Unilever threatened to be taken over by Kraft Heinz. I think there would have been an urgent debate with the Prime Minister if that had happened. At AkzoNobel, it's exactly the same. You have to take some measures, and this one goes with it. But it's not just about that. It is also about a longer reflection period for takeovers, for example. If we do that and if the Chamber supports that, we will show that the jobs of all those millions of Dutch people matter to us and that we do not mind that some critics say: well, you certainly only do it for the boardroom. It's not true, and I'm not gonna let you tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u55	I am incredibly disturbed by Mr Buma's arrogance. He assumes that the CDA is all about employment in the Netherlands and that anyone who criticises a part of a total package would apparently not care about employment in the Netherlands. What arrogance! I wouldn't do that. Let us stick to the arguments and the facts. We asked this question in writing: what is the effect of abolishing the dividend tax on takeover? Question 25. Prime Minister's response: no effect. Your whole argument that it's necessary is just bullshit. I would, of course, like to talk about all the measures we have taken, but if there is one measure that has no effect, that has no justification and no economist or no planning agency says that it does anything for employment, then it is right that we should ask critical questions about this. Then we'll have to spend that money differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u56	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u57	Does Mr Buma recognise that the abolition of the dividend tax, as the Prime Minister says in the answer to Question 25, has no effect on the takeover circus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u58	No, and it's not true. Then I find that the interrupter...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u59	You disagree with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u60	Let me finish my sentence. Nor is it true that no economist supports this measure. It's just not true. In fact, there are discussions going on among economists. Stevens, for example, and Van Wegen. There's more than one. Yesterday there was an interesting discussion at Nieuwsuur. The SP Group can laugh now, but it is not true that there are not very many people who see that this measure is absolutely necessary. 'Cause I'm coming back to you. I'm gonna go over it again anyway, because I don't think it's wise. The SP now says that the government must not look away from the threat of mass redundancies at Tata Steel in IJmuiden. That's what you're saying now. But the decision to dismiss the mass is not taken in this country, and you know it. That's what happened. I think it's a tragedy. Really a tragedy, if all these big companies, or even just a few, who are still taking their big investment decisions from the Netherlands, are going to leave. Then you'll be at a gate a lot, but because the layoffs are already there. I think it is our responsibility to be ahead of that, with a very large package. Companies we don't want are leaving. Others, whom we do want, come here. I'm standing in front of it. If you really care about the jobs in the future, you should be a little more willing to think about whether there is something going on with that Brexit around us and the changes in the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u61	It's quite remarkable, isn't it? We are asking what is the effect of abolishing the dividend tax on the acquisition. Then the cabinet says: it has no significant effect. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u62	But that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u63	Let's talk about your industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u64	The Prime Minister wants to interrupt now, but that is not the intention. You'll have the opportunity in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u65	Let's talk about your industrial policy. I would very much like to have a debate here on industrial policy. And then I'd love to talk about the power of shareholders. I would also like to talk about how we can give more power to employees in order to prevent companies from being taken over. It is precisely by abolishing the dividend tax that investors interested in Dutch companies are interested in short-term benefits. You give an advantage to short-term investors, to empty Dutch companies and sell parts of companies that make less profit. You are going to encourage this by abolishing the dividend tax. So once again, come up with a detailed report which states that abolishing the dividend tax in the Netherlands makes sense for the locational environment and for employment in the Netherlands. Why don't you come up with that, 'cause it's just not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u66	Number one: they are there, because I just mentioned them. I have those letters and you have them yourself: from VNO and from Shell. Economists have written about this too. Then I keep saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u67	Those who make themselves rich will be there for it. But why don't you give us a science-based study?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u68	And I think the latter is very wrong, because it is not about the wealth of those companies. What matters to me is that behind these companies are 2 million people who have jobs here. As for the takeovers, I think it's different in the letter, but that's up to the Prime Minister. What is the issue of dividend tax? Why does it make companies more vulnerable? Because because of that the shares have a lower value, because there is dividend tax on them. So they're lower than other companies', and so you can transfer those shares cheaper. So one of the reasons for abolishing the dividend tax is to increase the protection wall for our companies. We are not just doing this through the dividend tax; we are doing this by, for example, setting up a waiting period before companies are taken over. So the whole package, again. The whole package is intended to prevent companies from being valued less internationally. I cannot help it, but we live in a world with an international market and we must ensure that these companies are protected. That's not the reason, but it's one of the reasons that comes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u69	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Total package, total package, total package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u72	I still do not hear any substantiated arguments for abolishing the dividend tax. Let me conclude by saying that if this abolition really had so much effect, it would have been a long and wide-ranging abolition in all the countries around us. The United Kingdom has not done so for more than ten years, so it has no effect. The worst is: 1,400 million euros annually go to foreign tax authorities for the most part. The Dutch want to pay taxes, but then the money has to end up in the right place and that is not Donald Trump's account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u73	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yet this position is again so far from what I see as the truth! I'd tell you why. You say that other countries have the same. That is true, but Germany, France, Italy and Spain have a much larger internal market and have much more own shares. That's not "nice" or "not fun," it is. We, like the Netherlands, are 90% dependent on foreign companies for these shareholders. If we don't want to do that, we have to get out of the world economy, but we don't. The only thing left for us is the SP method, and that is on the day that the closure really takes place, suddenly going to this government and saying: it can't do that! We have to be prepared to be there in time. If governing is no longer forward-looking, but only looking backwards, then I wouldn't be safe and quiet in this place anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Roemer feels called upon to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u76	Since 1994, that is when we entered the House of Representatives, from 1994 onwards, we are in favour of finally tackling the power of short-term shareholders. That's the only way to stop hostile takeovers. It was the Dutch government that helped to sell Organon from Oss to American investors. Patents went to America, more than 1,000 jobs disappeared in Oss. Where were you? You were nowhere! We have always tried, from day one that we are in the Chamber, to increase the power of employees to ensure long-term vision in larger companies. The CDA always stops that, not the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u77	In fact, you must also be honest: you have always said it, but you have never actually been able to stop things from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thanks to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u79	No, not thanks to the CDA; thanks to the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u80	That's always disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thanks to the fact that shares may eventually be bought and sold in the world, and only now, this cabinet is taking steps against takeovers. The dividend tax is one of them. The other, I told you, is a waiting time. Short-term shareholders will have to wait longer, that 250-day period, before they can intervene. That is a second measure we are taking. If you don't own 3%, but 1% of the shares, you have to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u82	I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan, if you don't mind. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yes, Mr President, I stand here with increasing amazement listening to the paternalistic words, in an arrogant tone as well. It's like there's some kind of prophet talking who knows what's gonna happen in the future, and no one else knows. I have a simple question: which companies have left the Netherlands in recent years because of this dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u84	It is not about companies that have left the Netherlands for dividend tax, but it is about the future! It's about what can happen in the years to come. Have you ever heard of the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u85	No, never.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u86	Well, I do. I do. This has a huge effect. That's point one. Two. A number of companies could have disappeared. AkzoNobel could have just been gone. It could have been. That's what we're going to avoid for the future. I am thinking of a large company that did disappear, namely ABN AMRO. Everyone was scavenging when it happened, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr President, I asked a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u88	And the big question for you and for me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u89	You're straying!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u91	You're bringing in the whole world...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u92	No, no, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u93	You're bringing in the whole world...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u94	No, Mr. Azarkan. You're also learning to take over bad manners here. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u95	You do not want to ask the question we have to ask here. But you must do so, because I also believe that you represent the Dutch people and the jobs for the future. We must ask ourselves: do we see that the world in which we live, the economic world, the political world, is very uncertain? Do we see that capital is flying faster than ever and that there is a very high risk that in ten or twenty years' time this will lead to much less jobs for us in these sectors? You can say, well, I don't believe that. Then you don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u97	But I'm afraid that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u99	Do you know what it is, Mr. Chairman? If the arguments for doing something or not are really bad, you just bring the whole world in. Then you're gonna say to your opponent, "Did you get a Brexit?" It has just been said that the dividend tax in the United Kingdom has been zero for ten years. The money that comes to us at dividend tax from abroad is not from England.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u100	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u101	It's from Turkey. It's from Canada. That's where it hits. It's from the United States. You haven't figured out where the money's gonna drop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yeah, 60% is England and America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u103	No, Mr Azarkan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u104	I was just... I was just... I was... I was... I was... I was... Can I finish this? In my contribution, I indicated that 30, 40 companies from the United Kingdom have come to us in the past year and the year before. They do that because the dividend tax here wasn't zero at the time. Why would these companies do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u105	I'm going to repeat what I said again: because in the coming years there will be strategic choices for many companies. In the future, capital will go faster than ever. For its shares and shareholders, the Netherlands is 60% dependent on England and America alone. You estimate that if we do not lower the dividend tax, nothing will change. I'm guessing it's an estimate that it might be. In fact, I estimate that when that happens, you and the SP will all be at the gates of those companies, and you will address the Prime Minister and say that it is a shame that these companies are closing down. I prefer to stand here, now, in front of all of you, because I know, or at least I think, that the risk is too great. By the way, I am supported by someone like Minister Dijsselbloem. When Mr Dijsselbloem was a minister, he said to us all: The Netherlands must shake off its naivety and protect its strategic economic interests. This is a strategic economic interest. It's a lot of jobs. I'll repeat that to him. There is one change: we do, where others may not make the choice. We have to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u107	I'd like to take the chair, finalizing. Mr Buma, you simply have a different belief than I do. You believe in this waste of EUR 1.4 billion, and I do not. That's all that's left. You believe in it. I don't believe in it. It's a waste of Dutch taxpayers' money. Don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u108	I think this is a bit of a pathetic way of debating things. Really. Because it is an investment we are making to ensure that 2 million people in the Netherlands make the decision about their jobs sustainable here. This is a measure that we are only taking for one reason. I'd like the Chamber to back that up. It's about the future of those people and their families. I want that support because I'm not going to stand with those companies when the door closes. I want to stand there now, the moment the door is still open. Got the critique. Come with me. Let's do the short term. It's the long term that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr President, VNO-NCW did a survey in 2009. It asked the large company whether they intended to leave the Netherlands. It was also asked, if that were the case, what arguments would be behind it. Could this be due, for example, to the dividend tax we are levying here? Most of the companies said: no, that has nothing to do with it; that is no reason for us to leave the Netherlands. Mr Buma comes here with a vague, very strange reasoning: because of the Brexit companies would leave the Netherlands for the United Kingdom. But everyone knows that Brexit is exactly what makes companies leave England. So I don't understand exactly. With the abolition of the dividend tax, does he want to try to get companies from England to the Netherlands or does he want to keep the jobs we have here in the Netherlands? Then it has nothing to do with the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u110	In itself, it is nice that Mrs Thieme is now saying: is it about getting jobs from England or keeping jobs? Yeah, that's what it's about, both of them. Because a number of companies can opt for England, where the dividend tax is just playing a role. But that's where the decision becomes different, because England has the Brexit. So the big advantage that England has in itself compared to the Netherlands is part of the internal market, no dividend tax and generally a good business environment is becoming much less. So there is a greater chance that companies will go to the Netherlands; you may mind, but I do not mind. I also hope that the chance is less, but there is a chance that companies will go to England, because there the dividend tax is still zero. That's still not the only thing. I told you before: our shares are cheaper than other shares that do not have a dividend tax and therefore these companies are susceptible to takeovers. You can stand there and you can't believe it. That's okay, but I'll give you a note: the day we make a different decision and the first company leaves, then I'll keep saying it. You'll be at the gate. I would rather take the risk and the criticism than say: I stood by and made the wrong decision. I'll never do that. I'm not in politics for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr Buma also said that it would probably be very bad with England because of the Brexit. So I do not think it would be very interesting for a company to choose the United Kingdom. In addition, the United Kingdom has, of course, had a zero rate of dividend tax for years. The companies have so far just stayed in the Netherlands. So let us have a little discussion about what Mr Buma's big point is, namely that he is afraid that there are jobs that are now in the Netherlands, and not about potential jobs that would come from England. No, it's about Mr. Buma trying to scare people that they're gonna lose their jobs. That's what the whole discussion is about. I would very much like to know: what signals has Mr Buma had since 2009, when the VNO-NCW survey showed that companies are not leaving at all because of the dividend tax, that they would suddenly do so? Because of the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u112	We've all seen them in the media, haven't we? It's like one eye is close to you and the other is open. I mentioned them. You just don't believe them. You don't believe them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u113	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u114	Do I have to name the list again? I'm just not gonna do it. I mentioned it in this debate and I am not going to do it again. I mentioned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u115	I just want an answer to my question. Which companies are threatening to leave the Netherlands because of the dividend tax and the Brexit? Now I just want an answer to that clip-and-ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u116	You want me to say something I just said. VNO-NCW will watch over it. We got a letter from Shell. I mentioned a number of economists. They all see the risk. It's true, I can't look in a boardroom. So I can't see what kind of decision will come out tomorrow. I do know one thing: when it is decided to leave or not to leave and it is about real jobs, or when our companies are doing less well here than they are abroad, you are all there. And then all of a sudden you say, "Those jobs can't go away." I'm not. I'll never do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u118	I am increasingly surprised, like my colleagues, to listen to this incoherent story. But then I have one more point I wanted to make. Mr Buma's predecessor, Mr Balkenende, also felt absolutely nothing for the dividend tax. He pointed, among other things, to the Rhine tradition that there should be different interests than just the short-term shareholder interest. It is also a Christian-democratic tradition to look at it. Why, as far as the Christian Democrats are concerned, does this tradition simply go away and we are going for that long-term shareholder interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u119	I still think it's made of thick wood. It is about the jobs of many Dutch people who work at these companies. Moreover, the Balkenende II cabinet, Minister Joop Wijn, at that time reduced the dividend tax from 25% to 15% without criticism from the Chamber. No one's talked about it, neither are you. Very interesting, by the way, that you thought it was possible at the time, to support the big shareholders. He said that then. Now you're thinking if you've forgotten. Yes, you forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u120	Balkening II? I wasn't there then! I wasn't in the room at the time, so yeah, bye-bye. If I hadn't, I'd be right here. You bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u121	Well, at least not the colleagues. That's one. Two: that is what was done with the communication: the intention is to abolish it. That never happened because there was a crisis and it couldn't. It was never meant to keep her at 15%. I have also looked at my classics: Joop Wijn said that here in the Chamber. We need to get rid of this tax, because it is a market distortion, it is disruptive in a global stock market. And the crazy thing is, it seems like you all don't want to acknowledge the burden of being an open economy with big companies. That brings with it responsibilities to keep those jobs here. And it seems that you do not want to know, so that you can say: it is only about short-term shareholders. If that were the case, as a coalition, we would have taken other measures. You also know I wouldn't do that. You know from me that I'm not so close, that I would even take one second of a policy decision that would mean anything to the benefit of others. But for one group it must have advantages, and those are the ordinary people with their jobs here, who demand from politics that we stand in front of them, not only when the factories are closing, but when the strategic choices are ahead, under the motto "Government is ahead."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u122	I see you guys standing up. You guys have just been extensively interrupted. Mr Buma actually spoke one minute and eighteen seconds and answered almost forty minutes of interruptions and questions. I would like to make the proposal that Mr Buma finishes his story and then you will have the opportunity to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u123	I just like it. So let the gentlemen stand, I'm fine with it. But if you tell me to keep going, I'll keep going. I see they want another round.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u124	Well, I'm actually trying to keep us from repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u125	But that is almost impossible, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u126	That's why I thought you could finish your story first, and then you'd have the opportunity to interrupt. One question and a short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Buma just referred to ABN AMRO, which has been taken over and split up, and Akzo, on which a hostile bid has been made. He seemed to suggest that if the dividend tax had not existed, that would not have happened. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u128	No, I didn't mean to suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u130	But I wanted to say what I did want to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u131	You shouldn't provoke it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u132	Yeah, but the question's being asked, and I'm gonna answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr. Chairman. If he goes for it, I'm gonna go back to it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u135	What I wanted to say there is very important, and I remember that very well. What was the criticism then? That criticism came from all sides, including your party at the time. How is it possible that politics in The Hague, so little open to a company, in this case a bank like ABN AMRO, which is in trouble? That's what it was all about then. Should we or should we not come by, for example at the time, to talk about the problems? And why it is a relevant example is because those same political parties who were very angry at the then government because they were not prepared to talk to ABN AMRO, now say to me: what a shame, you may have had lobbies from companies. That's weird, that's weird. We hear, I think, much more than we have done now, in the future, all parties and everyone, nature organisations, trade unions, employers, businesses and citizens. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u136	I am asking this question because it is becoming more and more like a chat economy. All kinds of examples are included. Fear is sown, as if no bid had been made for AkzoNobel and ABN AMRO would not have been pulled apart. All this is set as an example, which scares people when it comes to the question of what this means for employment. However, if we pierce once, ask Mr Buma once, he says: no, you should not take it that way, it does not work that way. The hard truth is, we don't know what this 1.4 billion is going to do. However, when it comes to the location climate in the Netherlands and the keeping of businesses here, there are many measures that we are sure will have effect. But that's not what the Cabinet chooses. That's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u137	That's not a question. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr Buma, who scares us, reminds us a bit of Hans Teeuwen's fine sketch, in which the taxi driver says: yes, but what if it doesn't turn out to be hypothetical? There are all kinds of fear images being created. Mr Buma has known since Joop Wijn that this tax must be abolished. Then why isn't that in his program?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u139	I think I indicated that this tax, the abolition of the dividend tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u140	That's what we're talking about. That is today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u141	We didn't do that in times of crisis. We have not put it into our electoral programme now, and I do not think the other three either, because we had a very different way of thinking about how we could make up for our locational climate. We did not, I must say quite frankly, have the 1.4 billion interest rate reduction in it. Yes, we did. We didn't have all those environmental problems in it either. Yes, we did. This to remove the image as if some sort of sorcery has taken place. That's the question you asked. That is what I mean when I say: we did not talk about the dividend tax, it was about what is important at the moment. We cannot escape the fact that everything around the Brexit, but also the uncertainty in America, is coming at us at a rapid rate. Indeed, the discussions at the table have spoken quite differently than in the preparation of an election programme in 2016. That's true, but that's not shady. I recall that in 2010 we spoke with the Labour Party and, in my view, with the Christian Union about measures that had to be taken to overcome the crisis. Then there was the increase in the AOW age. No one had that in his election program. That was it, but precisely because no one had it in his election programme, it turned out that the three of us could agree on it. That was because it wasn't a plus or a minus for anyone. We saw that it was necessary. This is actually the same thing, nobody had that in his election program, but we made a whole of pluses and minuses and this was also a very important part of it. So to the questions that there are about how such a thing can come up, I can answer that if you can do that with each other, I felt that with the others too, I sincerely believe that we in the Netherlands have a very fragile system in terms of our economy, especially in terms of the international part. It's called scary, according to Mr. Klaver, but that's bullshit. We should look honestly at the risks for the future, otherwise you shouldn't be mooring at all, as some have done. You're supposed to be there. And I stand for it, because this is about the jobs of a lot of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u142	I'm going to see Mr Van Rooijen. But first, Mr Asscher for a final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u143	This is kind of funny. Mr Buma is actually saying that we are all stupid, irresponsible and that we are not looking to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u144	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u145	You do, and that's not so fancy. And to ask why that wasn't in your own program, when you've known it for ten years, there's a very incoherent story. That's not strong. Then admit: this is one of the ideas and actually it has very little support, so let's talk about a better idea. That would be a good way of debating before you complain about the tone again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u146	This is a very responsible idea, this is an idea that has to do with the question of whether you, too, are therefore going to ask you, too, if you are prepared to look beyond the short term and not just at a picture of a measure, but at the total. I call on you all to do so and perhaps to talk to other partners than you sometimes do, because I keep saying to those, for example a trade union, who is now at the door of Hoogovens: it is too late, it should have been earlier. And when, because it has happened, you stand at the gates of the companies that are no longer there or where decisions on investment are no longer taken? Too late. If the companies do come here and start investing, you are the first to say: that is because of me. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u147	Firstly, I share Mr Buma's concerns about employment. I was struck by his remark about protection structures. In the spring we had an intrusive discussion with the CDA leading Van den Berg and Pieter Ommzigt about the locusts versus Akzo. Then the CDA tabled a motion that was also adopted, with our support, to see if there can be an investment commission system à la the system in America to protect strategic sectors. Mr Buma mentioned that for a moment, but isn't that much more effective to keep employment here rather than dividend taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u148	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u149	Those are two things that, if you look closely, can't do without each other. Because that protection structure is very good, but we must also honestly acknowledge that it makes the shares less valuable. It makes a company worth less because it's less interesting to have shares in it. I don't like that, but that's how that world works. So it's not so crazy to put aside that there's something that makes those shares worth a little more. You shake no, Mr Van Rooijen, but this is one of the considerations. Why do other countries not have protection structures? That is why they have more shareholder value. We say we want a protection structure. In order to prevent that from turning against itself, you need to take a number of measures that will make shares cheaper again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u150	I don't understand the answer. A motion from the CDA has been adopted to create protection structures with not only longer reflection mines, which we are also in favour of. It is also a question of using the structure of the investment committee in America for strategic sectors in order to protect their own businesses. Other countries have that in a different way, but America is very strong at it. Do you want to get rid of that now, or will you continue to fight for it in this coalition, with our support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u151	I think it's in the coalition agreement. I don't know if it's the same thing. I should check it out. A number of measures have been taken, such as the 250-day reflection period. That was the problem with Akzo: they came in and the company was gone if you didn't pay attention. That's one. Two. You have to report it much faster if you have a big interest: not at 3% but already at 1%. I do not know whether that is exactly what you mean, but I wanted to point out that the measures we are now taking cannot be seen separately from the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u152	No, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u153	But I meant the motion of the CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u154	No, you already said that. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u155	I'm gonna take another shot at understanding that inimitable reasoning. Maybe another aspect. Has it been considered to halve it? Have you done an analysis of what that does?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u156	The point of halving is that you then at some point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u157	Lost half of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u158	This is not a method! I am trying to formulate my answer in a way that we have a debate. You can say that it is all incomprehensible, but I am really trying to say that it is understandable, because I just want a normal debate. At half-time, you approach the moment that the implementation costs, administration costs and all the mess become so expensive that lifting doesn't make any sense at all. You can take a measure that must have effect. You can do that a little bit. We did, but it's not enough. I told you, we've gone from 25% to 15%, with little discussion in this Chamber. The thought was indeed then: if we make such a choice, we can pretend to be doing something serious, when we actually know it's not him. Then you better do it all the way. That's the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u159	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u160	If I understand correctly, do you really want to say that collecting EUR 700 million in taxes for four companies is more expensive than the EUR 700 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u161	No, it's not the collection, it's also the administrative cost of paying it. I mean, the whole administrative burden around it, too. Remember, it starts with the one who owns the shares. It has to go to the company and so on, and so on. It's the implementation costs, but not just that. It's one-on-one. It's gonna be a trade-off, but that's one aspect. It's a pretty expensive tax in its entirety. The second is that the effect of halving is much less than abolishing half of the total. 'Cause we lowered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u162	No more questions, Mr Azarkan. I suggest you continue, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u163	I think you can just request that. I mean, I'm not a tax whizzkid, but this is one of the things. Mr. Chairman. We have recently seen that our top companies are not immune to desirable or unwanted takeovers. I have been able to point that out several times in an interrupting debate. It appears that at the push of a button companies elsewhere in the world can decide that jobs will disappear. I keep saying that there have always been concerns in the Chamber from left to right. These concerns have consequences and it is those who are concerned that this coalition is prepared to draw its conclusions on them. I have already said a number of things in response to the interruptions, so I will not repeat them. I have also said before that it is not just this coalition that has pointed out the risks. I mentioned earlier the ruling of then Minister Dijsselbloem of Finance, who also had that responsibility. I am not saying that to catch him on that, but to show that this is a concern that indeed began to live in the previous cabinet towards the end of that cabinet and under the influence of the Brexit, which is coming. I mentioned that as well as the SP, now that Tata Steel may actually lose jobs, now stands there. My advice to everyone, including the SP, is to be prepared to look ahead when those decisions are taken. But I also refer to the FNV. We are in favour of the jobs of the people they stand up for. Hans Busker also said: I call on the government to take swift measures to protect some of the companies that are crucial to the Dutch economy; standing up for the survival of companies is nothing to be ashamed of. If we all say that in words, there must be consequences. I want to take those consequences. So I also call on the critics if it becomes concrete and the choices have to be made, be a guy or a lady and stand there. When it comes to the choices that need to be made, and when it comes to the moments when they matter, it is often when you might think it can wait. It could have been. If the coalition had done so, we would not have had this debate. But I couldn't have looked myself in the mirror because I know that in the long run the risk is so great that I think that a cabinet and a coalition that operates responsibly shouldn't take that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u164	A brief question, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u165	Which company in the Netherlands would not have been taken over if the dividend tax had previously been abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u166	I believe that this question has been asked earlier by Mrs Thieme. At that time I indicated that, of course, it is not about companies in the past, but about a number of choices that lie ahead in the years ahead. It is precisely that, judging what the world is now, what can happen and what is just a very real risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr Buma blames trade unions and political parties for being at the gates when companies have to fire people or be taken over as companies. He himself links the subject we are talking about: abolishing the dividend tax. He must stop trying to put companies in the shoes of parties who have been arguing for years to finally tackle these grasshopper capitalists. Because the CDA hasn't done that all these years. I am very pleased that a number of measures and measures are being launched in the electoral programme. We will support these measures. But all the proposals in the past to deal with those grasshopper capitalists and all those investors who are looking for short-term profits look at V&D and other companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u168	And your question is, Mr. Roemer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u169	It's not even a question. Mr Buma must stop accusing the trade union movement and political parties of the consequences of the policy for which the CDA itself has been responsible for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u170	This is what I wanted to say, and I'm gonna keep it going. It makes little sense, I say in the direction of the SP, to stand at the gate of a company. That is quite apart from the question of whether this is specifically due to the dividend tax, but that may be the case. That's what we're talking about. If you stand constantly at the gates of companies and say "yes, but I told you so," there is no job left in the Netherlands. I think that's a responsibility you have, too. Your responsibility is also to say, if you stand with those people, that we are going to address the Dutch Government, but unfortunately we have to acknowledge that the decision-making power is in another country. That's not bullying or annoying, but that's what the world is like. I therefore believe that the choices you make here are reverse-looking choices. It's about future choices that are now being made and what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u171	Finally, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u172	On the contrary. I would very much like to discuss very sensible industrial policy in the Netherlands with Mr Buma. I am incredibly happy to debate with the cabinet measures for a better locational environment. For that, I would like to invest in better education. For that, I would like to invest in good infrastructure. For this, I would like to invest in a long-term vision of large companies. What we are talking about here is the one measure that still no dog can explain that EUR 1,400 million in the abolition of the dividend tax is a meaningful contribution to a better climate of establishment. All you do is race to the bottom, because what's the next step? What Mr Buma is doing is blaming the SP and other parties for us taking it on board for workers who have abandoned the CDA for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u173	What I blame you for is that, at the wrong time and in the wrong place, you say it for workers and employees, when you are standing there with your leaflet, you should say honestly: sorry, but it has already happened. That's my fault. You also say that you should spend this on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u174	You can't do this!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u175	It was another interruption with three or four questions, which I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u176	You can't do this!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u177	Yeah, you can, 'cause I'm just saying. I want to be able to get on with my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr Roemer, you will have the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u179	Yeah, but this really can't be. We are now debating the dividend tax for the coming years. That's what we're doing now. In the past, we have debated entrepreneurial power, employee power and power of flash capitalists. We have always debated this in the past and we have never received the CDA. Don't blame me that we didn't have a majority back then. I'm still sick of that, but that's your fault, because you were against it, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u180	You are now saying that the climate of establishment is so important. That's why this coalition invests more in innovation and research than you, for example. That's why we invest more in infrastructure. That is why I believe we are investing EUR 1.5 billion in education. And yes, we also invest in defence, for example. I admit that I cannot prove that tomorrow the Russians will invade, and yet I find this responsible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u181	Mr Buma has signed under almost EUR 1.5 billion, because I am using his words now. His assessment is that this is good for the companies and that the opportunity is there for them to come to the Netherlands or not to leave the Netherlands. Those are the words he uses: "estimate" and "chance," 1.5 billion. But what is not an assessment and what is certain, Mr Buma, is that you have promised the electorate and campaigned to reduce its own risk. You won't. You give 1.5 billion dividend exemption, 0% tax, to companies because you have an estimate, but what is certain is that people cannot pay their own risk and that they voted for you and Mrs Keijzer because you campaigned for it. You were just talking about a mirror. What do you say to yourself when you look in the mirror at night?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u182	It's a disappointment, but when I look in the mirror, I'm not gonna talk to me. You might...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u183	That seems very sensible to me, because you would not like the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u184	I know, Mr. Wilders. That's why I look silently in the mirror. Your question was about the dividend tax and its own risk. As far as dividend taxation is concerned, I have already said that there are also a number of tax increases which are not included in our electoral programme either. So you are making a comparison that is not there, because we did not mix the discussion we had in the coalition about care at that table, because that discussion, for example, had to do with the fact that we were going to give EUR 2 billion that we did not have in mind to care for the elderly. So we have said: we want to invest a lot of money in care and we are going to do so especially for the elderly. I must say that I am still grateful to the coalition partners, because I understand that they said that they needed that increase in their own risk; the CDA wanted their own risk to go down, as well as the Christian Union. In the end, we said, "We don't raise it." This means that in 2021 the own risk is not €460 but €385. I think this is a very responsible choice, but it had nothing to do with choices in other areas, because this choice had everything to do with care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u185	No, Madam President. This is a long answer, but not the beginning of a convincing answer. Because in the CDA's election programme, it was not the same thing, but a reduction in the risk. The CDA election programme did not include abolishing the dividend tax for shareholders of large companies. You've done exactly the opposite. You've fallen into the trap of the VVD. You've spent 1.5 billion on the big company, the shareholders of foreign companies. You have left the ordinary CDAs who live in the villages and cities of the Netherlands and voted for your party because they believed in you, because they believed in Mrs Mona Keijzer and at a lower risk of their own, completely in the cold. You said, "Fuck you at your own risk, I'll give it to the big companies." That is why, once again, don't look in that mirror, because that mirror bursts when it sees you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u186	Of happiness. Mr. Chairman. It's the same question again. It's okay. So I get to say the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u187	Very briefly, because you have already answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u188	Well, this was a pretty long interruption, so I'm gonna talk back a long time. And here's what I'm gonna do. It is true that the dividend tax is a choice that fits into a total palette for business. There are also a number of tax increases and a number of sustainable increases that we did not have in our electoral programme. Yeah, that's the nature of negotiating with someone else. We also discussed the issue of care. We came to the conclusion that it is necessary to invest very heavily in e.g. care for the elderly. We also felt that the Dutch should not be confronted with an increase in their own risk over the next four years. The parties who had something else in their election programme felt the same. I defended it, I defend it, and I stand for it. Of course, the CDA would very much have liked to run its own election programme. It would have been different, but this is my choice. Jobs for the future we keep and care for the future we also keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u190	Madam President. The Netherlands has an ancient tradition: our economy is bigger than our country. Our economy is bigger than you could expect from a country like ours. With the number of inhabitants we are 66, with our economy on the 16th and with our prosperity on the 13th. I think that is because we have always kept a close eye on what is happening in the world around us and we have adapted in time to take advantage of it. There's no golden recipe for that. There's no science that says that if you do it, you're guaranteed success. It's pay attention, anticipating and making choices on time. And that is what we are doing now with the abolition of the dividend tax. There's a lot of movement. There's a Brexit coming. The British have had their dividend tax at zero for some time, and there are companies that are meeting about where to set up their headquarters. I want these companies to know: in the Netherlands you're good. So, if you're already sitting here, stay. If you're not here yet, come on. I'm not saying that because I'm friends with multinationals, but because they need people to do work. Then I choose to increase the chance that the job goes to a Dutchman. I say that because investors can choose what they invest their capital in. And I'd rather they bring those boys to the Netherlands. I say that because they decide where the rest of those jobs are at headquarters. And then I'd rather have them close, here in the Netherlands. I say that because these companies are again working for other companies and other people, who deserve a living. My group colleague went to the General Financial Reviews last week. He got in the cab and talked to the cab driver. It was not Mr Teeuwen and Mr Asscher's racist taxi driver. The man said: I hope you will continue, because when a suboffice of a multinational closed, I was already 500 euros a week away from taxi rides to Schiphol. In short, Mr President, we are doing this because the Netherlands benefits from a healthy, strong economy; in that we can still levy a lot of other taxes with which we can then pay the police, the nurses and the teachers. It is our job to ensure that the economy also remains strong, for small companies, for large companies and ultimately for every Dutch person who has a job as a result. In order to continue that tradition of a small country with a very large economy, you have to change in time and keep the locational climate healthy, and sometimes you have to turn against the wind in a primeval Dutch move in order to increase the chance of getting out of it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u191	Before I give everyone the floor again, I would like to say that I allow interruptions, but they must be really short; otherwise I am going to limit them to a maximum. And don't want a repeat of moves. Set a good example, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr President, I did not want to interrupt, but I saw the disappointment in Mr Dijkhoff's eyes. That is why I thought: let me come forward to ask this question. I heard another glowing argument to abolish the dividend tax. Why wasn't that in the VVD's election program?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u193	There is a great deal not in the electoral programme, because that is not an exhaustive list of measures, with the question of whether or not we would ever want to take them. If you have read the chapter in our election programme on the locational climate, which I can recommend to everyone, I do not think anyone will be surprised that we support measures like this. It contains even more infamous texts on the preservation of the locational environment for the future, and also that this is important for the Dutch economy, which I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u194	This is very relevant, because it is not included in the electoral programme with any party. I heard Mr Dijkhoff fully defend this dividend tax. My question is: if this is really so sensible, if this is necessary, why didn't it appear in the election programme? It refers to the Brexit. It had already happened before we set up our election programs. I'd like to go back to the government statement. Mr Dijkhoff then made a very good speech about the fact that we should base ourselves on facts here. I agree. That is why we have also asked for the memos on this piece, which were on the table at the formation, which contain the facts about the dividend tax. Does Mr Dijkhoff support my request to the Prime Minister and the former reformer to share these documents with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u195	Because the theme of the location climate for the VVD is so important, we have written a separate chapter about it. Again, it will not surprise anyone that this measure fits in. We had more wishes, and they didn't all make it in the coalition meeting. In addition, I believe that the cabinet should provide the information it needs to provide. When it comes to the personal policy concepts of civil servants, we have a standing practice for which information we do and do not provide. It is up to the cabinet to decide which document is or is not provided along which line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u196	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u197	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I find this striking. It was really a nice and sincere speech during the government statement on how we should deal with each other here in Parliament, and that this must be about the facts. I now ask Mr Dijkhoff whether we can have the facts that were on the table during the formation. This wasn't in anyone's election program, not even the VVD. As an opposition, we must be able to judge on the basis of these facts. I would like Mr Dijkhoff to support my request at least. The cabinet looks at what it sends or doesn't send, but does Mr. Dijkhoff support my request? He's a member of parliament. He's not in the cabinet anymore. That is why my question: do you support the request for more information on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u198	Needing facts doesn't mean that you need every document that exists in the world to be able to weigh up a decision. Nor do I have the impression that Mr Klaver needs the documents he requests as facts in order to be able to judge this measure. I have the impression that no one here today has entered the debate with any room for change of opinion. Those facts are therefore not necessary for opinion-forming and decision-making. I believe that the cabinet itself should assess this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u199	I'd say talk for yourself. But okay. In the previous debate, Mr Dijkhoff referred to it as 'a gamble'. I have not read any substantiated arguments from any prominent economist or planning agency for a week that could make it clear that the abolition of dividend taxation really contributes to the locational environment. We'll talk about 1,400 million euros. That is why I ask Mr Dijkhoff to do the following. In the SOMO report, I read that this independent institute that has investigated this finds that around 1,100 million goes to foreign tax administrations and only over 300 million to investors. If that is the ratio, is that not a good argument to say: we are not going to pay taxes for a country like America; we are going to see if we can even improve the location climate with this EUR 1,400 million? Would Mr Dijkhoff and the VVD be prepared to look with us at how we can use that amount better than to give it to the US government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u200	The question has a point in itself that it goes to the US government. Let that be just a country where they are also adjusting their tax structures, so that this calculation can sometimes be very different and can no longer calculate it nationally, and so it does not go to the US tax authorities but directly to the investor. You can wait for that, but then you're too late. That's also a reason to do it. So I am not prepared to start a new negotiation on this 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u201	It has been shown that the largest part has nothing to do with the business environment and nothing to do with jobs. It also has no effect on whether or not a company stays established here. That is what the financial markets are about. So I keep looking for why we're spending nearly 1.5 billion when we need things here in so many places. 1,100 million goes to tax authorities and only 300 million to investors. If Mr Dijkhoff insists that it should only be a gamble, can we not look at the locational environment with each other and see how we can further improve our education, innovation policy and infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u202	Clear. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u203	There is evidence that these have a direct impact on the locational climate in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u204	The coalition agreement does it all. There is investment in education. Taxes are reduced, such as corporation tax. The dividend tax is also abolished. These are all matters that contribute to a better locational environment. That's what we do so that the economy, which is running well, keeps going well. We can then make further investments in, for example, safety, social security and care. That's a whole package. I believe that there is a lot of work going on in all these areas and that the coalition agreement serves society in all these areas. The abolition of the dividend tax should be an integral part of that package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u205	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u206	But no substantive evidence or any supporting evidence shows that. The only actual research only says where the money ends up: not with companies in the Netherlands, not with large investors who think in the longer term. No, flash capitalists and foreign tax authorities benefit from it. And yet the VVD says: I'm not gonna look at it, we're gonna keep gambling and we're gonna try to start the race to the bottom in Holland. Where does this race to the bottom end?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u207	If it's up to me, with lots of jobs and companies in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u208	The VVD did write something about it in the election program. The VVD says that this type of large expenditure needs to have transparent objectives in advance, that it needs to be checkable and verifiable and that it needs to be checked whether they are achieved. The only difference is that this is about development cooperation, about aid to the poorest. Apparently, there is no need for this kind of multinationals. My question is whether the VVD wants to try to do justice to that idea, that you don't just hand out that money as a gamble. I assume that is a thought that Mr Dijkhoff is kind. This tax reduction, this gift is only actually distributed with Sinterklaas 2019. That gives us a year. Is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to look with whatever five, six, seven economists he mentions and with the Chamber to see whether a better use of 1.4 billion can be found in the coming year? 'Cause in the future, nothing's gonna change. Then we can go back to that cab driver together and say to him: they wrote this down in the negotiation room but we came up with a better idea. That is, of course, what we are in politics for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u209	No, because now you're gonna call it off and it's gonna have an effect on your locational climate. This debate has that, but that is no reason not to. For companies that now have to decide whether to go to the Netherlands or Germany or whether to stay in the Netherlands or to go to England, I think it is important that they know now that we are going to take that measure, and not that we might take it. That does not have the positive effect on the decision-making that I am aiming for. In this way, we do not increase the chance that the Netherlands will be chosen and that it will become jobs in the Netherlands. So I'm not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u210	Well, this is a very undemocratic argument. The Second and First Chambers still have to agree to this proposal. It is not enough that you have signed a government agreement and you cannot allow a democratic debate on the House's budget right to be held hostage by any impact on the location climate. That's a misdemeanor. My question was a serious one. There will be a debate in the Lower House and in the Upper House, also on this subject. Whether you like it or not, that debate won't go away. Are you prepared to consider, on rational grounds, for the benefit of that taxi driver and many others in the coming year, a better, more transparent, more accountable, more effective measure, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u211	If Mr Asscher is right to ask a genuine question, then he should not smear it himself with some bullshit that I am doing something undemocratic. It is absolutely democratic that a party in the Chamber should state what it stands for, that I am clear about what I stand for and that I am clear that the abolition of dividends is something I stand for. I'm not going to reverse it, and I'm not going to replace it with other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u212	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u213	What is undemocratic is that you say that this debate is bad for the climate of establishment. You accuse me of asking you the question. That's what you just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u214	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u215	I'm fine with you taking that back. In fact, it would adorn you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u216	Oh, we'll get it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u217	But my question was a very serious one, because when it comes to the poorest, the VVD has a mouthful about how they have to be checkable targets. Imagine a euro going too much! Now you're doing this. We have a year to go, and my only question is, are you willing to think about a better plan? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u218	I did not blame Mr Asscher. So I don't go along with the melodramatic that he would be blamed for something that then needs to be withdrawn. I only note that it will have an effect if I now cast doubt on the intention of the VVD Group to vote for this measure in its entirety. So I am not doing so in this debate, because that effect is detrimental to our economy. I'm clear about that. We stand for this measure and we are not going to replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u219	I too can actually hear Mr Dijkhoff say that he suggested that at least this debate alone would have a negative impact on the locational environment. But that aside, let's apply the theory of relativity to this story, at least an attempt. The Netherlands is not on its own. Germany and Belgium have 25% dividend tax, France 30% and Switzerland 35%. Do you now expect companies and shareholders to come to the Netherlands from these countries on a massive scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u220	That would be welcome. But the British have 0%. They're always easily forgotten in that list. There are many reasons for choosing a country and abolishing the dividend tax is an additional reason to opt for the Netherlands. It would be very welcome if more countries would settle in the Netherlands and if companies established in the Netherlands and subject to dividends would decide to stay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u221	But for a while. So there are companies not that far from the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany are around the corner and France is 200, 300 kilometres away, who accept that they pay 25% or 30% dividend tax while paying 0% tax a little further. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u222	I find it complicated when Mr Azarkan throws two things at me and I have to explain how they relate to each other. What I'm saying is that the locational climate has many elements. There are a lot of countries you don't want to settle in even if you get money. Luckily, we're not that kind of country. In the competition you see, dividend taxation is a factor. Of course, you can't predict in advance how many companies there will be, just as you can't predict that you'll keep that revenue of 1.4 billion if you maintain the dividend tax, because then you assume that they'll all stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u223	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u224	How do these other countries, Germany, Belgium and Switzerland, do this with the high dividend tax? How do they manage to be more competitive than the Netherlands with 0%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u225	Mr President, this will lead to further interruptions again because the southern neighbours do not like to hear it and I will be accused of saying it anyway. But they are already a bit late there, because companies have already left there. You can't guarantee that they would have stayed with 0% dividend, because there are other factors, but I want to make sure that companies stay in the Netherlands and/or come to the Netherlands as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u226	Mr Dijkhoff said that there might be a tax change in America. I heard Hans de Boer from VNO say the same last week. Maybe that's possible. We have to wait and see, but isn't that a reason for your proposal, at least the cabinet proposal, America is a big player? Failure to do so could lead to a review of this proposal. If it does, you can always use it as a new argument. That's my first question. The second is very brief: as others...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u227	No, the first question. Mr Dijkhoff!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u228	I understand that tactic, but I don't think it's wise, because that's not anticipating anymore, but acting afterwards. Then you're taking a big risk, too. Then you take a guess, just to use that word, but with the jobs. You can do something to prevent them from being lost, but wait until it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u229	I get that. Anticipating is always better than after. But as long as it's uncertain, that's not a strong argument. In other words, other countries also know that this may happen, and they are not going to abolish the dividend tax. Are they crazy? I also heard Mr Buma say that dividend taxation is actually a major disturbance in the market. Are all these other countries crazy that they still have that tax, America first? What's the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u230	I'm not gonna make another country look crazy. I know that we, as the Netherlands, have often been the first to do something, so that after that we had a mark on the international economy. I hope this will turn out to be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u231	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u232	Do you not think it is better that, in the travel of trade missions, in addition to everything we have, corporate tax is the selling argument rather than the dividend tax? This is rarely discussed in trade missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u233	Both. That's why we're lowering corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u235	You can do that differently...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u236	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I now turn to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u237	Madam President. In Europe, everyone has been spoiling each other for months when it comes to the Brexit. The low interest rate ensures that activist investors have Dutch companies in their sights. Although the economy is slowly attracting and the Netherlands is getting out of the crisis, we are still vulnerable. We are a small country with an open economy, surrounded by giants. That requires that we operate smartly and quickly, that we remain attractive. We are not internationally known for our raw materials and also less and less for our strategic location, but for our knowledge and innovation. Look at Eindhoven, Wageningen or the amount of start-ups and our gaming industry. Of course, we have also mentioned a number of large companies, also known as multinationals. I welcome that, as do many parties in the Chamber. The Prime Minister compared us to Belgium, where there are few large companies. The fact-checkers agreed with him, mostly, and that's an achievement for a politician. We do not want to pursue our neighbouring country. That is why we choose to keep and make our locational climate attractive. We don't want the threatening job losses we've seen at Aldel, Fokker, Tata Steel, Philip Morris or, this summer, at AkzoNobel. Foreign locusts threatened 5,000 jobs, and then the Netherlands was almost too small and everyone in the Chamber was awake. What were they thinking? Mr. Chairman. For me, companies that bring innovations and jobs are very welcome in this country. That is why we are investing in a good climate with substantial investment in education, research, infrastructure, culture, our language skills. But we're dealing with tax evasion and shady tax constructions. Louche trust offices or letterbox companies are not welcome in the Netherlands. Nor will there be any relaxation of the bonus policy. The coalition agreement is ambitious in that respect. I would therefore like to hear how the cabinet is going to implement all these plans in conjunction with and with speed. I would also like to receive from the cabinet a concrete action plan with a clear timetable for all this ambition. In this debate on dividend taxation and in this discussion it is always asked: was it in your election programme? Has there been a lobby? Is there a threat? I understand that you will allow me to continue with my speech, Mr President. Then may I take you to the teacher's salaries? Was it in the election programs? No. Has there been a lobby? Yes. Is there a threat? Well, sure, strikes! But is that why we did it? No. But it was because it was something bigger for us. And if anyone asks me if I would have liked to put this 1.4 billion into education as well: of course. But you have to make a whole range of choices. At home you can't just spend money on the things that are fun and visible. Checking the boiler is necessary because neglect leads to dangerous situations. You know better ways to spend your money: absolutely. Today, one measure is taken out of the total of the tax package. A measure which, in itself, I understand, is somewhat less out of place in the context of European developments. Mr. Chairman. I brought up that Brexit. In the United Kingdom there is no dividend tax and the British will do their best to bring every company in after the Brexit. They have to, now that the companies are leaving the country. And with that, the Brexit is an opportunity and a threat at the same time. In the Netherlands we are therefore also preparing for all scenarios. We are faced with a good locational climate. Mr. Chairman. The question mark on this isolated measure is something I can very well follow. But it fits in with the overall package of this coalition agreement, and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u238	Those teachers' salaries were in our election program. It is also a very good measure. Mr Pechtold's speech concerns protection against takeovers. The cabinet has said that there is no clear effect of this measure that protects against the takeover. That is also the problem with this measure, albeit in isolation, but EUR 1.4 billion. I would like to ask Mr Pechtold another question. He is well aware of the impact of this decision. The Netherlands is not known for the raw materials, the Netherlands is known for the race to the bottom. In Europe, this is looked at extremely critically. Surely it is embarrassing that, after years of pleading for European cooperation to prevent this, a cabinet that Mr Pechtold is signing is going to lead this race to the bottom? It is the first step on the continent. Does Mr Pechtold not agree with me that it is actually extremely embarrassing and sad that he is now signing up to that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u239	The line in Mr Asscher's question, just as stripped of all adjectives, is: shouldn't you be careful that we compete with other countries in such a way that we, as a private person, as taxpayers, have to pay everything? Yeah, we should be careful about that. And most of all, as I say to Eurocritical parties in this Chamber, you should be able to coordinate this kind of thing with neighbouring countries. That's what we do more and more about a lot of things. Some things are still taboo to talk about, but I would prefer to see in the future that you make agreements with surrounding countries so that you don't let them play you against each other. I think this is a measure that says a race to the bottom, to use that word that lingers every time: no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u240	Thank you for this open answer. Fiscalists analysed this measure and say that this does not actually invite employment but companies that do aggressive tax planning. Exactly the problem that Mr Pechtold and I want to oppose. I ask him as a democrat, a fan of an open decision-making process, whether he is prepared to use the next few years to see if there is an alternative measure that is good for the locational climate, but which does not have a negative impact on Europe and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u241	I stand for this measure. Look, companies have to take into account that every four years.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that, in total, the joint measures we have agreed on here are things that I think are going to make people very happy about. Other things I think: well, you need some more explanation for that. But if I were to say that I am open to turning it back or adjusting it over the next few years, it is precisely not having the effect we are aiming at, namely keeping employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u242	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u243	But you agree with me that this measure can only come into force if both Chambers have agreed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u244	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u245	I'm not asking you for yo-yo policy. I say we can use the time before the law is through the Second and First Chambers to come up with a better plan. I think it's such a waste of money to ring that race to the bottom when no positive effects are expected. I am not counting on you, especially as a democrat, to reverse that measure. But before you introduce it, do you still have a democratic duty to think of something better? And "a signature under a coalition agreement," as you would have said in the past, "may never replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u246	I like that, too. I also noticed that Mr Asscher came to this debate with the idea: well, I don't like it now, but at the end of the debate I think it might be a very good idea. For example, Mr Asscher and Mr Roemer and Mr Klaver have come to this debate: well, at the moment we still see objections, but we are all still studying. At first we thought it was all...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u247	We're waiting for Segers now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u248	At first we thought it was all going to the investors, now it turns out it's other tax collectors again, so we're all still studying. So Mr Asscher is also open to it. But I see 76 seats here through my eye hairs. I hope that the ladies and gentlemen across the street will look at these plans in their context as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr. Azarkan. No, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u250	So the answer is no? He's not willing to look at it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u251	No. I have just indicated that I am always willing to look at things, but that questioning this particular measure over the next few weeks and months could mean destroying what we are trying to do with it. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u252	We'd better get rid of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u253	No, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u254	So, as far as my group is concerned, we are in favour of this measure and we are not gonna mess with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u256	Mr President, a brief question. The government agreement states that the government intends to introduce a withholding tax on interest, royalties and outgoing cash flows to low tax jurisdictions. You indicated at the beginning that that is also a way of not being a country as a tax haven anymore. What's that gonna do in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u257	I don't know. I'm sure that'll be passed on. I saw it going to zero real fast. I believe that there is now some 550 million in the books, and then it is immediately zero. The moment you announce that you don't want artists or others who use this only to avoid taxes, the proceeds are gone. Then everyone knows: we shouldn't do that here anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u258	So the conclusion is that these companies actually didn't contribute anything to the economy and that they're actually running away because we're going to tax this now, because your budget is actually just zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u259	Yes. I think it is a good example of Mr Azarkan. You can see how sensitive it can be to announce measures alone. I've got to take my mind off those seven months, but even the Central Planning Bureau said it's already working if you announce something like that. That seems very clear to me. That is not employment, or it is employment that leads to the distribution of intellectual property at most on the Zuidas. That's interesting, but not something we want our economy to run.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u260	Exactly. I totally agree. These letterbox companies need to get out of the country as soon as possible. It is also right that the cabinet should put energy into that. That is why I am surprised that the dividend tax will then be abolished. We do not want companies driven by all kinds of tax advantages. We don't want mailbox companies. We want companies that have only substance, which create jobs. If you make sure that companies come to the Netherlands because of dividend taxes, then you are disappearing from the Netherlands, then you are in the process of promoting the same kind of mentality and in fact stimulating it? We're going to keep companies here who want to stay here purely because of these tax advantages and who will also be gone when it gets more fiscally interesting elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u261	That's exactly how the world works in many ways. As an alderman, I have often been agitated to death by other municipalities that were going to spend cheap land to fill up their business premises again and who, instead of renovating an old business site, sacrificed another piece of greenery for that. There was enormous competition. Yeah, we do that in the Netherlands. Take our universities. Wageningen I'm proud of it again and again I'm one of the best. By delivering a home or at least ensuring that people can go there, it tries to be more attractive than other universities. This competition sometimes has annoying and sometimes beautiful sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u262	You just said you didn't want a rat race to the bottom and that this measure wouldn't cause that. So it is. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold that we should not want to participate in this. If, at some point, it becomes more fiscally attractive somewhere else, then those companies, which are supposedly the job engines of our society, are going to go back there. Surely we should invest in companies wanting to be here because, for example, it is attractive to hire people here, because the tax on labour is lower? Shouldn't we bet on that? We should not be doing business, and there are only a few people who want to stay here purely and simply because of the dividend tax. Surely this is the most expensive job plan ever, of EUR 1.4 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u263	If you look at the measure on its own...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u264	Billion it must be, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u265	If you look at the measure yourself, I said it myself, too, and see if you can give that money to other things in the electoral context too, the answer is: yes, of course. But a cabinet and a coalition in the making have a responsibility to look at the total. Maybe now people are listening or sitting here in the stands knowing someone who works at Shell, at Unilever, at AkzoNobel or at one of those other big companies. They might think: these people here, these 150 and that cabinet, are all about measures that affect our lives, like whether we're going to drive faster, or whether we're going to punish harder, whether we're working more together or less, and whether we can use intelligence or not. Those are all measures. Some have a direct effect. Raising education salaries, everyone happy. A smaller class, does that have an effect? Suppose you calculate that, or have a smaller class effect. I wouldn't know, but my gut says, well, yeah, that's a nicer class for everyone in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u266	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u267	Mr Pechtold is defending a very expensive job plan, of which we still have to ask ourselves whether there will be jobs. It would be a good thing for him to look with us, with the opposition, at how we can actually support entrepreneurial Netherlands, by focusing in particular on SMEs and on the start-ups of those young people from whom the disruptive innovation comes and where the entrepreneurial spirit is rather than to multinationals, whose jobs have only been reduced in recent years. I'm surprised he's standing here defending a VVD plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u268	I'd like that. But perhaps Mrs Thieme will then have to ask for a debate on the nice measures envisaged by this cabinet, for example the payment of wages in the event of illness that is going to be very good for SMEs and the reduction of corporation tax for companies, so that they may be able to put more money into research and into their staff. I would say: ask for a debate on this. Indeed, I find that much more pleasurable than this debate. 'Cause, yeah, I know it's hard. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u269	I'm gonna make it a lot more fun for Mr. Pechtold. When it came to the provision of information to the Chamber, he was usually very enthusiastic on this side of the Chamber. The question I have is next. In the formation dossier, which is very extensive, I believe that it consisted of ten boxes, which has now been completely digitized, for which great compliments to the Chambers, I find absolutely nothing about this dividend tax. How is that possible, I would like to ask Mr Pechtold. I was allowed to sit at the table myself for a while. There are all kinds of notes on complicated subjects. This seems like such a complicated subject. Have there not been any notes on this at the negotiating table so that they could be shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr Klaver, who has prepared these questions, will indeed have looked at all the compliments to you and to your organisation, President-in-Office of the Council, in that digital file. If it's not in there, it's not in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u271	The question I asked was another, namely whether this was not discussed at the table. Hasn't this been discussed on the basis of documents? Were there memos behind it? I just can't imagine it wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u272	If that memo were there, he'd be in it. If it isn't, it's been discussed without a memo. Like a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u273	This is interesting. If that memo's there, it should be in the file. That's what I think is right. This is important to note. Yeah, we've been through this whole thing. It's absolutely worth it, I'd like to say. There is a memo about the budget reception in the region and the post network, about the budget 2018 and the spring note, about the budget needed to better deploy the armed forces, about non-compulsory space for the budget for OS and so I can continue. But nothing about the dividend tax. So it decided on 1.4 billion, and there is no information at all on this, which comes from ministries or from counsellors. I think that's weird. I ask Mr Pechtold if he is prepared to ask the Prime Minister to share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u274	Let's take a look at the contents and the process. Content: no note is requested about even larger amounts. There is 5.2 billion relief for citizens. Did we do that without a note? I think so. You're gonna have to pass on the security. You can see that. There were parties who wanted to cut back on development cooperation. Others want money. You're gonna let that go through? No, because it's always an assessment of what happens to development cooperation money. You never see the immediate effects of that the next day, but you do feel that it is good for a rich country to do that kind of thing. You're gonna get a note on that? No. Are you assuming that that kind of thing contributes to a better world? Yes. But, Mr. Chairman, let's go to trial. If Mr. Klaver here is suggesting that your organization would not have recorded something that is there, he must come up with some kind of evidence. By the way, I don't support the idea that there would be such a thing. If Mr Klaver has a feeling or has heard that there is something, I would like to be informed by him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u275	What exactly do you mean, Mr. Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u276	Well, what does Mr. Pechtold mean? I'll try to express myself again. I'm complimenting the Chamber of Representatives because everything is digitized. We've gone through everything, everything! And there's nothing in it about the dividend tax. My point is that I cannot believe that no memos have been written by the Ministry or by the counsellors who deal with that dividend tax. We also talked about taxes and then we got neatly beautiful memos and notes with all kinds of options that are there; arguments that you can include in the choices you make. Don't tell me there haven't been any about the dividend tax. Mr Pechtold's memory seems to leave him here for a while. He says, "I don't know if they were there anymore." My point is: if those memos were there, I have also asked the question to the Prime Minister, I think the Chamber is entitled to see them. Does Mr Pechtold agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u277	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u279	I find it incomprehensible. I mean, on a subject that we have talked about very often in the Chamber, which is already very much to be found, development cooperation, there are piles of investigations in everyone's closet. This is a measure which has not been discussed before, which was not included in any electoral programme, which actually fell out of the sky, well, from the air, from Shell and a few other companies, and which is being discussed there at once. Will Mr Pechtold now suggest that a decision of 1.4 billion has been taken, without a memo or reasoning, without a report or any other opinion? Is that really what he's trying to suggest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u280	There's been 1.9 billion to education without any memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u281	There are such piles about education, partly thanks to you, among others, because you ask a lot. There's a lot of research. That's where we know it. We've been discussing how we can improve that for years. That's what we're always talking about. I want an answer to my question. This is a subject we have never discussed in the Chamber, which we have never seen research on and which nobody had included in his election programme. Nevertheless, a decision will be rolled out in the coalition agreement that there will be 1.4 billion less revenue for the Dutch government every year. Did you really do that without one memo, without one backup, without one advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u282	That's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u283	I remember the file, because when I was Minister in Balkenende II, Secretary of State Wijn also made a proposal. Then the dividend tax was reduced. I think Mr Buma just mentioned that. Mrs Thieme was not there at the time; she was just accused of this. It has been mentioned in reports, such as the Van Weeghel Committee. So you should not pretend that dividend taxation has never been mentioned in this house or that measures have never been taken by a cabinet. That happened 15 years ago. So it was advised eight years ago. Yeah, it's getting a lot of interest right now. I get that! I stayed in this Chamber, but I am now on the other side of the line when it comes to coalition and opposition. If a cabinet regulates 5.2 billion relief for people, actually increases the burden on companies, and greens it is, of course, fantastic to take out one measure as an opposition and say: if you look at it in isolation, then what is the effect and where does it come from? I understand that. Only, I'm taking it back to the total. And in the total of those measures that make me try to safeguard and preserve Dutch jobs for the future, and perhaps even create new ones, I think this is a responsible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u284	That's got to be based on something, right? This must be based on a memo, advice, support or a report. So it would have been discussed. You will then have received reports at the negotiating table which confirm that this proposal will benefit employment or the business environment. You are constantly contradicting and always going to other subjects! But in your opinion, there is no memo, no report, nothing, nothing, after the negotiations came on the table of anyone to justify giving 1.4 billion to foreign tax authorities or to foreign investors. Then I can only conclude that it has only been decided on the basis of a request from a number of large companies to do it, without any substantive argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u285	Now you're stuck in your own reasoning. One time, and I've been hearing this for days, you say it's because there was a big lobby of business. That doesn't stick much, because it turns out that everyone talks to all kinds of people all day long, so do you. You listen to that, but you know you're sitting here with no back words, so you listen, you get informed, you go to work, you hear something and you form your opinion. Either that or you say you were absolutely not informed and you did it without any information. One of those two accusations is true: either I was convinced or I wasn't convinced by anything. Healthy thinking has led to the idea that less taxes and other taxes have certain effects. Another example: we increase the punishment for hate sows. We'll even double that one. Can I now show that it makes people less hateful? I don't know. Do I need a note for that? No. Do we think it is an important signal to people who think they should do so? Yes. For example, this is an important signal towards existing business here and towards people who are considering starting a branch or whatever, in the sense of: in the Netherlands we speak our languages, we have a good educational offer, a good cultural offer, our roads are well maintained and our tax environment is organized in a pleasant way. It creates real jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u286	I'm going to see Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr President, one correction, because something is being suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u288	No, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u289	I will be very brief, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u290	Well, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u291	Lots of reports have been written about hate sows. You give 1.4 billion to foreign tax administrations and investors...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mr Roemer, you have already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u293	... and you say: without one report, without one memo. Do you insist that there was nothing on the table during the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u294	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u295	The latter is clear then. I would have asked you that, but I can't imagine you saying on the one hand that you're convinced even if there were no memos. You confirm that now; I'm gonna leave all those other side streets out of the question. I also asked the Prime Minister this question: why, as one of the four negotiators, did you not ask for support for such a far-reaching proposal? It may be a good proposal, but what has convinced you without even asking for support? Is Treasury involved? I'm asking the Prime Minister. Have cases been submitted on paper with the pros and contras? Have you had no need of such a far-reaching proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u296	I hear the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u297	Do you say, "Well, it's okay?" I can't imagine. You have to ask about that! We are asking for this, and if it was not there, then we in the Chamber would like to have the support of a proposal which still needs to be discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u298	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u299	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u300	I get it. I don't think anyone heard about this dividend tax a few weeks ago. By now, you can't turn on the radio or it's about it. Everyone now knows what dividend tax is. It is a total of measures that a cabinet is taking in the process of building, also in the light of current events. I can still remember those seven months we sat there. That Brexit, which makes them a prime minister for the second time in a year, where you get signals that companies are flying in all directions. It's one of our biggest neighbors! It is not for nothing that VNO-NCW, our business community, is going to ask the current Prime Minister, whom we hope will be sitting for a while, which is the only stability; perhaps then we, as Europe, will finally be clear about what they are going to do. That's what happened. We were there that summer with AkzoNobel. One of these measures is 250 days' reflection time to take over. Was that in my election program? No. Nor do I believe in the CDA, nor in the VVD, in the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u301	This is also a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u302	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but the questions are also a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u303	Yeah, that's right. I've seen that same question come across in different forms. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u304	Let me ask you another question: are you prepared to support a request from the Chamber to ask for a justification of the pros and cons, possibly of cases without knowing the names? I think there were some big files on the Treasury. I can't imagine that the formatter and Mr. Zalm, all known, didn't ask Finance for that far-reaching proposal: can you provide any support? If that is not requested, I find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u305	I think it is all fantastic and I always support every request for questions, but I have here a letter of four sides from Secretary of State Snel on this issue. I have here an answer from the Prime Minister to questions from our Chamber. I followed a debate with two directors on the Tax Plan and this theme, which lasted for many hours. We are here as group chairmen. I stand here defending what I stand for. If you want more information, I would say: ask a new round of written questions. They are answered with all love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u306	You should have answered them. Would you support my request from the Chamber to ask for that support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u307	Mr Pechtold has already said that. Mr. Klaver, you've just been here. So I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u308	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u309	Oh, you may make a point of order for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u310	I thought Mr Pechtold was sincere. He indicated: I'm not sure if there was or wasn't, but if these documents were there, then I think they should be shared with the Chamber. That is why I have a point of order. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to share with Parliament, either at the main table or at the side tables of the negotiations, the documents on the dividend tax that were being discussed. If D66 supports this, then I think there is a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u311	What I support... For the record, I find it annoying, both for our organization, your organization, and for the informant, whose role has been taken over by the reformer and now by the Prime Minister, in the same person, that the suggestion is being made that things have been withheld outside the rules. You won't get my personal notes, just like I don't get yours. Everything that has to go to the Chamber under the official terms has gone to the Chamber to my best knowledge. If anything has been withheld under the rules as we apply them, then I support any request for information. But if you ask for a road at some point and you hear no a few times, then you also have to accept that it's no or come up with proof that something is there. Whatever's supposed to be within the rules here, I support, but that's what I know best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u312	Mr Klaver, no discussion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mr President, I will...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u314	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u315	Let me make my point of order even clearer. Of course, it is not about everything that is covered by the rules in force. I asked very precisely: were there any documents on the table relating to the dividend tax? The answer to that was: I don't know, but if they are there, then I think they should be shared with the Chamber. That is my question on this point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u316	This is the point you made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u317	That is what Mr Pechtold said. If he supports that, then I think there is a majority and the Prime Minister can still give an answer to my question. One, were those memos there? And two, if they were there, they should be shared with the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u318	Just so we're clear... Mr Klaver is doing well; I must say that. There is now a suggestion of non-existent memos. I almost wonder, where's my receipt? Looking for my receipt!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u319	I don't see one person laughing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u320	Ah, you've been able to defend that for five years. If there are any documents that are officially agreed under the rules that we have all agreed on... For the sake of clarity, I have indicated that these are things like the hundreds of letters we received from all kinds of civil society organisations. Every week, I believe that became public. That's all public by now. But not private remarks, because they are covered by the protection of the private person. To my best knowledge, nothing has fallen between that shore and that ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u321	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u322	If Mr Klaver can prove that, I am open to it, but I think that is only a suggestion so far. I think you should stop doing that at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u323	There is therefore a request for information. Prime Minister, will you respond now? I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u324	Mr. Chairman. We sent the formation archive to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u325	Consisting of 1,499 documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u326	Well, then you'll see we've been really busy for a while. The answers explain which documents are included in that archive. These are all the written documents received, the information officer's questions to missionary directors and the presentation of the formatter's documents to you, Madam President. That's complete. So there were no pieces in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u327	But there are also pieces of officials, memos with variants. Mr Klaver has just given a number of examples of this. So we're not talking about personal notes, we're talking about official memos, about effects of measures that wouldn't have to be classified. I think that's what the question was about. That was not in the Prime Minister's list, so I think it is good for the debate if it is now clear whether the documents exist. And if so, why were they not made available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u328	Again, we have done exactly what we do every time after formation. First of all, we receive all kinds of letters from civil society organisations. For example, the VNO letter, which refers to the abolition of the dividend tax, was included, and so many other letters, for example from the Eindhoven region, where they wanted 8 billion to invest in that region. We've looked at that a few more times. In addition to these letters, there are the questions asked by the informant to the missionary directors in order to pass on to their official apparatus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u329	But that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u330	No, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u331	All these cases, like we always do, have been sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u332	Now it's getting very problematic. 'Cause now the Prime Minister's really going around. I didn't ask about things that were officially passed on to rulers. There is another category of official documents, which have not been officially requested through the directors. These include memos by officials, on the effects of measures. They play an important role in the formation. The question is whether there have been memos like this about the dividend tax. If so, why were they not provided? I do not need to repeat the answer to the question of what has been provided. In my opinion, Klaver's question in the debate on order was a question on which a simple yes or no should come. Those pieces exist? If so, why aren't they at the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u333	Mr Asscher knows that there is a tradition of how the Chamber and the cabinet to be formed are with each other when it comes to formation documents. Whatever else may circulate in a formation at sub-tables, at main tables, to pieces that, for example, directly request individual parties from civil servants, is not covered by the formation dossier. These are personal policy concepts of civil servants. They are not shared with the Chamber; we never do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u334	Mr President, it is an order debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u335	Yes, an order debate. First, I would like to thank Mr Pechtold for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u336	Yeah, aren't there any more questions? It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u337	Thank you. I will give you all the opportunity to make one comment on this, otherwise it will indeed be a debate on a point of order between you and the Prime Minister. I want to avoid that a little bit; I want us to be able to reach a conclusion. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u338	Mr President, I would also very much like us not to have to have this debate if we had just gotten those documents. This is not about personal policy ideas. I know from experience that not all the pieces are there. We sat at the table ourselves. We have, damn it... I have to say, I'm really sorry about this. This is about the information position of the Chamber. My group has spent four days going over those almost 1,500 pieces, to see what is in them and what is not. I see that memos we have had and in which it is not at all about personal policy ideas of officials but simply about factual information, for example about bonuses in the Brexit context, are not included in the formation dossier. That is why I just want an answer from the Prime Minister to my question: have there been memos on the dividend tax? If they're there, it's a choice to share them with the Chamber or not. But don't you dare tell me they're not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u339	This is a little weird. Because there is a whole suggestion in Mr Klaver's question. There's a way Chamber and cabinet formation are together. There is also a way of dealing with official documents that, for example, may have been requested by the parties collectively or individually from officials. That too happens in a formation. I am sure Mr Klaver did so himself during the months he was at the table. That's perfectly normal. They are not part of the formation file in the traffic between Chamber and Cabinet and between Chamber and formation. Part of the formation file are all those cases that have come in and all those cases that have been asked out through the directors. I think that was quite a pile of pieces, over 1,400, I understand. I myself had that as Secretary of State at the time when Balkenende IV, no, Balkenende II was formed, still consisting of CDA and Party of Labour. Then, as Secretary of State for Social Affairs, I sent over documents requested from the formation table. They are also part of the formation archive. Other documents that are requested during a formation are, therefore, not included in the formation file, for example, by individual parties, by a sub-table or a main table, but always by parties and thus not by the informant. Why is it important that such pieces can be there? Because there must also be room in a formation for debate, ripe and green. There must be times when you have that discussion with each other. If all these documents were then to become public, it would not work, not only between administrators and their officials, but also in a formation in which informal questions of this kind could at some point be put to the official organisation. They can't be made public. It is a process of policy preparation, in which things that are not yet fully balanced can be mature and green in the discussion. Mr Klaver himself has such a piece that was not in the formation file because it apparently came to him in a different way. Everything that the informant asked out to the rulers, and that's a lot, is all in the information file. That's how it works. I really want to maintain this standing practice here, because otherwise there will be no policy preparation in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u340	I give the opportunity to ask one question on this point. Then the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to respond. Then I would like to suspend briefly and then we will continue with the next speaker. So you can all ask one question. I shall begin with Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u341	I am not suggesting at all that there has been a violation of the rules or that the Registry has done something wrong, quite the contrary. However, given the importance of this debate, I would like to support the request to provide internal memos on this subject, if any, to the Chamber. This is without prejudice to the general rules. In fact, Article 68 of the Constitution obliges the Cabinet to depart from it on a case-by-case basis. So you have to be able to prove that it puts an official in trouble, that it damages the negotiation process and so on. I would therefore suggest that the cabinet should use the suspension to weigh per document whether or not it can be provided. But it can't just be rejected in general terms. That is not possible, not on the basis of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u342	I go to Mr Klaver, if he has a different question than Mr Asscher. Otherwise, I will go to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u343	I asked: were there memos on the table that related to the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u344	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u345	As a Chamber, we cannot make a decision and we cannot make a decision if we do not have the relevant documentation. I told you earlier, if there is one, I want it. If it's been asked by the negotiators and those notes were there, then they're there. I can't imagine they weren't there. I do not have any science, but in my view it is practically certain that there is a note from the Finance Office in which it stands for and against in general, apart from the individual cases. I want that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u346	After a long debate, I just asked Mr Pechtold the literal question: do you want to confirm that a decision on dividend taxation has been taken for 1.4 billion without a report, a memo or other items on the table? His answer was clear: yes. Does the Prime Minister confirm that there were zero memos, reports or other matters on the table to support this decision to put it into the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u347	Then we have had all the questions relating to the order of business of this sitting. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u348	Actually, you can answer the questions as seated as possible; that is fine. As far as Mr Roemer's last question is concerned, there have been no concluding documents. There have, of course, been texts that have ended up in the coalition agreement. In such a formation process, texts are being worked from the parties and from the formation secretariat which ultimately lead to the texts that enter into the coalition agreement. Of course, there are a lot of concepts of that; that is always the case. To my best knowledge, there has certainly not been a memo that has been asked out through the informant or informal, but of course all kinds of texts in the making that are part of a formation process. That is my answer to Mr Roemer. To my best knowledge, that's the honest answer I'm giving here. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher. Article 68 of the Constitution and the WOB do not require the disclosure of personal policy views of officials. I am really opposed to this, both in traffic between officials and their directors and in traffic between officials and formation. Once again, if we put the full light of the public on everything, you can no longer scan things with each other in this country, try things out, weigh one against the other. If all this becomes public, including what I have just said, at least I think it is right, because otherwise I did not say 'ripe and green', then we cannot drive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u349	I would actually like to make the proposal to suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u350	I get that. But apparently there is information now, when I hear the Prime Minister like that. We asked a very simple question: was there any information available? You say, "No, I don't know." We are about to suspend, but I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister would like to come back to us after the suspension with the answer to the question: were there any pieces, what kind of things were they and was there indeed personal policy ideas or is this just factual information that can be shared with the Chamber? I'd be happy to make that request to the Prime Minister. I would like him to use the suspension to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u351	I am very clear about that: I am not going to do that. I'm not gonna do that! No outstretched hand to Mr. Klaver. It is a matter of principle. This is about how we work between Chambers and Cabinets, between Cabinets and civil servants, but also between formation and a forming team. If we are going to deviate from the agreements that we have made on what is and what is not in a file, then we will no longer be able to form in this way, then at some point we will have to agree that we are no longer using the Dutch administration, but consulting offices, or I do know what. No one wants that. We really shouldn't do this. Here, the better is at the expense of good. This is where public access leads to the fact that we are no longer able to do good policy preparations. I'm really warning you about this, Mr. Chairman. I'm very keen on this. Furthermore, the majority of the Chamber will have to decide this, but I am really against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u352	Sorry, Mr. Roemer. This is a repeat of moves. I don't see any movement from either side either. So I really want to maintain my proposal to suspend briefly. We have two more speakers, Mr Segers and Mr Baudet. After that... Oh, you want to say something to me? You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u353	I think that is very kind and very kind of you, Madam President, because this is about the provision of information to the Chamber. That's what you're looking after. Every soul knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u354	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u355	... that it is inconceivable that a decision on 1.4 billion should be taken without any information. As President of the Chamber, you should consider and ensure that we are actively informed by the Cabinet, especially when it comes to such a large subject. I would therefore ask you to exercise your influence in order to obtain the information relevant to the Chamber. That is the obligation to provide information. You'll have to watch over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u356	You are right when it comes to the information position of the Chamber. I thought Mr Asscher referred to Article 68 of the Constitution. At the same time, that article also lays down a number of conditions under which a document is public or not. I can't judge the status of pieces. I wasn't there. I assume that the Prime Minister has given an answer to that and may still have to give an answer. But I can't go from this position and force the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber with pieces. Mr Van Rooijen, you will not have the floor. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u357	We will continue with the debate on dividend taxation. I actually wanted to give the floor to Mr Segers, but I can see Mr Van Rooijen at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u358	I would have liked to ask this question before the interruption. Just as forward thinking, positive and constructive...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u359	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u360	Is the Prime Minister willing to keep a note that is not there yet? There is nothing to keep secret or information...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u361	So this is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u362	Yes. Is the Prime Minister prepared to let Finance make a new note with the pros and cons, so that we can make a well-founded judgement on this later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u363	I mean, there's going to be a draft law here at some point with a whole explanatory statement, right? It's called a law, Mr Van Rooijen! You've been doing it so long! Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u364	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u365	No, no. I give the floor to Mr Segers. Mr Segers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u366	Madam President. This coalition chord is like a new U2 album. There are always beautiful songs on it, and sometimes also a song that doesn't appeal to me. But I still buy the whole album, every time. In this way, I have firmly signed the coalition agreement, under the entire coalition agreement and thus under the elements that we have not contributed. I'm defending that, even today. This cabinet wants to improve the entrepreneurial environment in the Netherlands, so that there are good jobs and enough jobs for Dutch people. There will then be room for companies with added value. To this end, a wide range of measures has been included in the coalition agreement. I like to call them. Removing the dividend tax. Reducing the tax on profits for large and small companies. Dealing with letterbox companies. And yes, I am very aware that this also has consequences for U2. That's a good thing. The music is nice, but their tax morals are below par and we're going to do something about it. I will continue with the measures. Maintaining the strictest bonus policy for financial institutions in Europe. It is no secret that that decision was not taken for granted. Otherwise addressing tax avoidance nationally and internationally and creating an attractive location environment for companies with added value for our economy. Making the recruitment of staff more attractive, especially in SMEs. Tax greening, such as the introduction of a CO-minimum price, i.e. the price we ask companies to pay. Of course, there is not only the above-mentioned package for business, but first and foremost a comprehensive relief package for citizens. It is a package of measures which is positive for all groups and which is particularly attractive for groups that have been hit hard in recent crisis years. I refer specifically to middle-income households and, in particular, single-income households around modality. This is what my group stands for, and heartfeltly. Moreover, our group is naturally entitled to a man's word, a man's word. However, I am counting on the government to quickly address its intentions to tackle tax avoidance and mailboxes, turnover into action and legislation. At the General Financial Reviews, the necessary changes were made. I am counting on the cabinet to indicate before Christmas how the passages in the government agreement on tackling tax avoidance are being worked out in concrete terms. I'd like to get confirmation from the Prime Minister. Mr President, I see there is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u367	Finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u368	In this debate on the proposed abolition of the dividend tax, I would like to take this opportunity to give a point of attention to the Prime Minister. The removal of the dividend tax should not lead to new forms of tax avoidance. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the removal of the dividend tax takes place in such a way that there are no loopholes in the law? In this context, I would also like to draw the attention of the cabinet to legislation in the United Kingdom. I'd like a reaction to that. All the way to the end. I compared the coalition chord to an U2 album. That comparison is a bit of a limp. In my humble opinion the best U2 album is already 30 years old, and this coalition chord is the best so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u369	Is Mr Segers at any time in the formation given, directly or indirectly, the feeling that companies would leave if he did not remove that dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u370	All arguments and pros and cons have been put on the table. Then you make a valuation. That is not mathematics, but an assessment: could it contribute to improving the locational climate, yes or no? Could this help to ensure that companies with added value and high-quality employment remain? Or stronger, that there might be new companies? At that time, that assessment was made, in the whole and in the width of the package, as I already outlined. Then I said: yes, we make that assessment and we make that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u371	I understand, but my question was pretty precise. Was there at any time during the formation, directly or indirectly, given to Mr Segers, or given the feeling or information that if the dividend tax were not removed, companies would leave? I ask because this was claimed in De Telegraaf by anonymous negotiators. So that is quite relevant to this debate, because that says something about the freedom with which you were able to negotiate. I think the answer is yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u372	The direct link between the abolition or maintenance of the dividend tax and the decision of companies has not been established. There isn't one. There is an assessment of the climate that we are creating and of what is the most likely outcome of decisions that companies will then be able to take and take. We are in the period of the Brexit, which has been referred to repeatedly. Companies make decisions. The location climate in the United Kingdom is under pressure. The United Kingdom will take other measures to keep businesses there or to attract new ones. So yes, there is competition. We want to be in that fight. Not for the benefit of the shareholder, but for the benefit of Dutch people with a nice job here and of companies around them that have added value and deliver products in the service of the jobs that are involved. To that end, we have made that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u373	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u374	Clear. That's an important answer. So you are actually saying that it is not true what was said in De Telegraaf, namely that there was blackmail and that there has been pressure. There is no link between abolishing the dividend tax and maintaining concrete, specific companies. It is a general measure, where there is hope, based on the whole context, that it will help. But we certainly don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u375	And for all clarity, of course not in the blind. It is with a view to a business environment that is volatile and in which companies are very vulnerable, also companies that are now in the Netherlands. They can make the decision that they're leaving. It's possible. That is a very real option. But I haven't spoken to anyone at all. I've only spoken to fellow negotiators who said, if you do, we'll stay, if you don't, we'll leave. There is no link, but there is an assessment that this is a real option because it is a very fragile locational environment. We do this for Dutch people with good jobs and for high-quality jobs as a whole. If we had done it without burden relief for the citizens, I would never have done it. If we hadn't invested in the collective sector, I wouldn't have. If nothing had happened for SMEs, I wouldn't have done it. As a whole, I said yes, this is where I sign my signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u376	Then Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u377	I don't doubt your intentions for a second. I appreciate you saying "not in the blind," but you were also uncertain about the effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u378	Mr. Asscher!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u379	It's an appraisal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u380	I call Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u381	It's very logical that you talk about the locational climate long and comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u382	What's the matter with Mr. Pechtold? Carry on, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u383	I think my name is Mr. Roemer, not him. I'm just gonna start over. It is very logical that during the negotiations you talk extensively and much about the investment climate in the Netherlands. That is a very important point for every party here. Of course, every measure you take is an assessment, an appraisal. However, you always do, on the basis of arguments, figures, expectations of what happens when you lower or increase the tax on profits and you name it. I cannot imagine Mr Segers taking an annual decision of EUR 1.4 billion in favour of abolishing the dividend tax without any substantive argument, any justification, figures or a memo. Can Mr Segers confirm that this did happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u384	There's some kind of obsession with a memo. I can honestly say with the hand on my heart that I don't remember having a memo like that. There may have been a lot of memos, but I honestly don't know that. There's some kind of obsession with a memo with a huge secret status that would have been there. We've had all the information on the table. How did it come up? Through conversations, through information you get, by looking out and reading a newspaper. Then you know that we are now in a climate where companies can leave. There have been companies from London going to Frankfurt. Some companies have gone to Amsterdam. We have had a debate on our bonus legislation. You know that very well, and you should appeal to that. That has to do with it. Then you make a valuation. I think it is important for Mr Roemer to say: it is an appraisal. What that indicates is that what has been said here is not absurd but an assessment. You can make a different assessment, but you cannot say that the underlying considerations are absurd. It's about employment. It's about activity. It's about high-quality employment. It's about the added value of beautiful companies in exchange for, on the other hand, companies we don't want here. Those are companies that avoid and evade taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u385	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u386	So it's an appraisal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u387	The fact that the whole of the Netherlands and many Members of Parliament are concerned is due to the fact that so extremely much money is being given away here. We are all looking for the basis and want to know what effect this can have. I think that's a perfectly normal question. Yesterday, in the cultural budget, I do not know how long they talked about 5 or 10 million extra for the cultural budget. We're talking about 1,400 million euros here. It is perhaps much worse that this comes into a coalition agreement without one of the four parties saying: shall we first investigate this and ask what the effects might be or what could be a passing-through? Apparently none of that happened, because there was nothing there. I know that this was a great melon for Mr Segers or at least for the Christian Union. Why did he never ask for a basis for the 1.4 billion before this came in and to see if the valuation was based on anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u388	Short response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u389	I really have a problem. I do not feel taken seriously when Mr Roemer suggests that we have thrown our feet on the table and said: 'dude, shall we throw out 1.4 billion?' Of course it's an appraisal. Of course, that is an assessment of what this does to companies. Of course, we also have, for example, a Van Weeghel committee, which already said in 2010: this does something about the location climate. This is an assessment of the advantages and disadvantages. Here you have to put a lot on the scale. For us, it was only acceptable in the package as a whole, because we are also doing something for the collective sector, which you will address, and also doing something for SMEs and a lot for citizens. As a whole, it is perfectly acceptable and justifiable to do something for large companies that have added value and provide high-quality jobs. And that did not happen on the basis of a gut feeling, but on the basis of all the information we could collect or have received and with a look at the current climate that is extremely fragile and extremely volatile. To that end, we have made that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u390	Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u391	Just a brief closing question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u392	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u393	We just did that to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u394	But that won't be necessary. You said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u395	What is the reaction of Mr Segers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u396	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u397	... on SOMO's report that 1.1 billion of that amount goes directly to foreign tax authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u398	I give the floor to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u399	Yeah, what the hell is that? This is what others do. This is a fair question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u400	Mr Segers is about to respond. Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u401	Yes, I too would like an answer to Mr Roemer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u402	Then this also counts as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u403	I would also like to know what Mr Segers' response to the SOMO report is. This is indeed about the effects of this measure. If the Christian Union Chooser knew in advance that the Christian Union would eventually sign for dividend tax, I think she would have scratched herself three times before voting for that party. But I assume that during the negotiations the Christian Union fought like a lion to prevent the dividend tax from being abolished. If the CPB then makes it clear that there are no employment effects and that the payback effects are nil, then I assume that the Christian Union has then also said to the other negotiators: there is no justification for the abolition, we should not do so. Did you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u404	We have had extremely interesting conversations about this subject, but I am not going to share it in detail. What I do share is that we have gone back to our constituents, to our party. At that time we said that we were able to arrange 1 billion for families, that there would be more money for development cooperation and for defence, that there would be greening of the tax system, that there would be an energy transition that would be unprecedented, and that we would also have decided on a locational climate. We have said: this is the whole; is it for you to wear? The answer is: yes, that is very good to wear. If Christian Union voters think that we could introduce our electoral programme in its entirety, I do not think they would vote for us at all. I mean, that's such a stupid valuation. And my constituents, our constituents, are a little smarter than that. What they do know is that we are fighting for our ideals and that we are content with nothing but a coalition agreement which contains enough of our ideals. And they're in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u405	I also think that voters have the right to know what arguments the Christian Union had to put in place in the formation against this plan. For example, did the Christian Union come up with the 2005 report by, among others, Chetty and Saez, which shows that by abolishing the dividend tax, multinational ATMs become shareholders, and that this could be at the expense of the employees of these multinationals? Has the Christian Union responded to this? Did the Christian Union know about that study? Now the SOMO report shows that it is not good and nothing positive contributes to our economy. Isn't it important to say to the other partners: let's not do it and put our money into something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u406	Also in response to Mr Roermer, who has since left the room...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u407	No, he's back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u408	I can also refer to the SOMO report in response to him. It is clear that the proceeds go to foreign shareholders. They have to pay for it. There will be compensation for Dutch shareholders. They can take care of that. Foreign shareholders aren't. It is obvious that it benefits those shareholders. But we didn't do it for them. It wasn't interesting...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u409	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u410	No, Madam President, this is an important point. It is not at all interesting for us to go and bake shareholders abroad. We are talking about jobs for Dutch people, about business in the Netherlands and about the kind of business we want here, and only because we also do something for SMEs and citizens and take a lot of other measures. In this connection, we are indeed doing something for multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u411	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u412	In addition to responding to the SOMO report, I asked for the arguments used by the Christian Union during the negotiations to try to prevent the dividend tax being abolished, including by pointing out that multinationals are going to become ATMs for shareholders, that it is therefore not good for the workers who work there and that it is short-term thinking. Has the Christian Union pointed this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u413	If Mrs Thieme wants a transcript of the negotiations, I have to disappoint her. I'm not gonna give it to you. In the secrecy of that negotiating chamber everything is on the table, the pros and cons. And I just said: it's an assessment in the big picture, with this particular measure, which you can say yes or no to. We have said yes to the whole of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u414	A NRC journalist has been raised with you during the formation period. She wrote a wonderful report. In that report, it is defined by your party as "development aid for multinationals." How did you get to that definition and this wonderful quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u415	Yes, and the melon also came along; it was used elsewhere. It shows some of the considerations that we have, of the pros and cons that live with us and of that you can have intense internal and external discussions. It is the essence of parliamentary democracy that everything is on the table, that you sit around it and that you decide one thing: internal and external, we are going to get out. We did, in the big picture. Of course, the fact that you have mixed feelings in parts is no secret at all. I can mention all kinds of parts of the coalition agreement and point out what I say: I am not very enthusiastic about that. That goes equally well for the other three parties. Only one thing: there were four parties who wanted to get out. Why? To do something good for the Netherlands. You can only do that together. That's what we wanted, and that's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u416	You're in favour of taking that responsibility, so I think that's a good thing. However, what did you get in return for what you yourself say: that is development money for multinationals? That sounds a bit like: it's wasted money; it's not going to do much. Development aid does not need multinationals. What did you get in return?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u417	I have just mentioned a number of very nice measures and elements of the coalition agreement in the whole of the locational environment. Take the fight against tax avoidance. In the past, at least, we had the impression that we could be a tax haven and that arrangements were made here that would avoid tax morale. That's what we're up against now. The previous cabinet has already taken many measures. This cabinet is going to take new measures. That alone is an element of which I am proud and which I am happy about. Of course, there are many more elements. I mentioned a billion for families. I mentioned real development cooperation, where a lot of extra money goes. Investing in Defense, greening and sustainability: there are a lot of elements I'm happy about and I'm very excited about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u418	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u419	I'm gonna save my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u420	It doesn't work that way, Mr. Azarkan. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u421	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I put the question to Mr Segers because I appreciate his great openness, the only one of the four, on this point. I will take that into account in my question. Did he know or did he ask about the effect of the proposal? Did he know that most of the money I think between half and 80% of the money goes not even to the shareholders but to foreign governments? Did he know that or did he ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u422	Of course we know what the direct effect is, but it is about what it does with employment in the Netherlands. What does it do with the location climate in the Netherlands? What does it do with the activity in the Netherlands? And then we're not at all interested in that shareholder abroad. That will be our sausage, but what matters to us is the one who works at Shell of Unilever and the one Mr Van der Staaij spoke to on Oltgensplaat. That's a real Dutchman with a real job saying, "Please, do something." Why? "It's about my job." It's also about the lawyer who works for that and the baker who delivers the sandwiches. We are concerned about that whole circle of activity around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u423	I share that with you, but my question was concrete: did you know or did you ask or did you want to ask afterwards how much of the 1.4 billion that goes to Mr Trump's treasury and others? I'm not talking about that foreign investor. You can imagine, but it just means that from Mr. Rutte's treasury maybe a billion of that 1.4 goes to Mr. Trump's treasury or some other countries. And they didn't ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u424	Let me put it in general. During the whole discussion, which has taken place over the past week, little has been said that surprised me. All the arguments came through. All the considerations have come through, all the reservations have come through. It's an appraisal. Again, everyone has the right to make another valuation, but what I would like is that there would be a little more understanding over and over again for the fact that you could also come to another consideration. In a polarized debate one is white and the other is black and one is a total mesjokke and the other is only wise and sensible. And that does not do justice to the harsh reality in which we are dealing with the Brexit situation. There are companies, big companies, in the Netherlands with a lot of value that we would like to keep here. Tax money is scarce and in that reality you have to weigh up. As a whole, we have said: this is what we are doing, and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u425	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u426	I think Mr Segers's words are wise. I have nothing to add, but my question remains. You weren't there for it. You're the only one we know about. Has it then finally been the case that one of the other three people I do not necessarily need to know who said 'but we do want to'? Did you say, "Well, like Samsom and Rutte in Rutte II, it's going to be a card game? You get this and you get it."?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u427	This does not do justice to the considerations of the other parties, because it was just as much a valuation for them. It was just as well for them to consider, because there is no party that says, "Oh, we're going to write a blank cheque, because we don't care what happens to it." It has been an assessment for each party, an appraisal that they have made very conscientiously. One one weighed a bit heavier and the other one and in there you make a choice for that wide package. I said I wouldn't have done it if all those other elements weren't part of it, but they're part of it and that's why I signed it. And then, a man a man, a word a word; so we shall do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u428	Mr. Roemer, I see you standing up, but you've been in full swing at this point. I actually want Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u429	I understand that you want to speed up the debate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u430	No, that's not the point at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u431	... something has been suggested by Mr Segers which I do not think he means at least. It is said: because we are concerned about an essential part of the whole package...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u432	Mr. Roemer, is this a new point? Otherwise it will really be a repeat of moves and I try to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u433	No, it's not gonna be a repeat of moves. There is a reproach and I assume that Mr Segers does not mean that. That reproach is that, because we are making a point of an essential part, we would have no regard for the locational environment, employment and so on. Knowing Mr Segers, he does not mean to say that. Please confirm. One more question. You're talking about it being an appraisal, and that's right. But with "an appraisal" you suggest: I see a lot of advantages in that, but I don't know if they come true. But when you say on the same subject in the newspaper that it is like a melon that you have to swallow, you say in the newspaper: I do not see any good at all. Because I can't swallow a melon. So it's either it's a.. it's really not possible, but I agree, that's negotiation.... or it's an appraisal, and you do have faith in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u434	Just before the parliamentary historiography: that melon was not mine. It belonged to colleague Bruins. He's still eating him down there. And a melon can also be cut into pieces. You can serve it in pairs. It was a whole melon, which you eventually cut into pieces, and in the whole it was wearable. However, I would like to continue with your first remark. In no way have I been given the impression that it is also an appraisal for you. All I've heard is that it was absurd and ridiculous and madness. Again, you can say that you make that valuation different and that the other weighs more heavily on you. But what if we don't? What if big, important companies still leave? Then you will also have to answer for the workers there. Even so, you can say that I am prepared to make that choice. Then those jobs go away, and I can explain. You can do that. But at least show that it's a balance of interests, a balance of value and a dilemma. That would be more honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u435	This is another question for Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u436	I would very much like to enter into the debate on a good locational climate. No party in this Chamber wants a bad location climate in the Netherlands. So we come up with all kinds of proposals to improve it, let there be no misunderstanding. I don't blame you, and I hope you don't blame me. No one here in the Chamber is for a worse settlement policy. When I read that article on the abolition of dividend tax in the coalition agreement, I sincerely tried to find out the arguments. 1.4 billion is a lot of money. You and I together know a lot of points on which we could spend that money better. So I've been looking for arguments. The coalition won't go beyond an assessment. I do see a SOMO report stating that 1.1 billion is going abroad; I repeat it. I have not heard any valid argument that it actually improves the locational climate. So it's an assessment. My legitimate question would then be: will we not go for an assessment but for other measures that have proven to improve the locational environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u437	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u438	But that really is a misconception of the seriousness of the situation. There are companies going elsewhere from London, and there is a chance that in response measures will be taken that will lead to companies moving in the opposite direction. So that is a very real situation and it is a very serious situation, because it affects activity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u439	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u440	That is at least a dilemma, including for Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u441	I waited until the last time to ask Mr Segers this question. I'm not gonna question his motives; it's a pretty factual question. We have now heard that none of the coalition parties have a memory of whether there was a memo or not. My question is: who has calculated that this measure will yield 1.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u442	I don't know. That's what happened in the wire transfer. If you turn in all your financial plans, there'll be a bill. Cases can also be passed on in the meantime. In that information exchange, that comes along.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u443	So that's either the CPB or the Treasury Department. Have any comments been made on the impact of these measures? If we now read the CPB's pass-through of the total record of the coalition agreement as it stands, we can see, for example, that the CPB has no idea what the effect will be. Is that information shared by the CPB in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u444	Of course. Well, I don't know if the CPB provided that. But of course we know that, because it is primarily a defensive measure. The main purpose of the measure is to maintain the high-quality activity and employment that we have here. It is always said that there will be no additional jobs. No, we want to keep what's going on, and that's under pressure, and that's vulnerable. This is very vulnerable in an economic environment where companies can make choices that are very bad for Dutch workers. It is therefore primarily a defensive measure. It may prove to be an offensive measure if it attracts activity from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u445	What is literally said: has no effect on employment, not up and not down. Why am I asking this? I believe you if you say you have no memory of it. But I hope you understand that I find it difficult to understand that there would have been no memos on it. If we talk for a second, it turns out there's information coming back from the CPB. What we are asking here as a Chamber is not information containing the personal views of policy officials. These are not negotiations or positions between the parties. It is really about the factual information that has been provided either by the officials or the CPB, so that we know what arguments have been given to the negotiating parties and we can make a better assessment of how this has been achieved. This is particularly important in this measure because it is not included in anyone's electoral programme. It has not been part of the political debate before. So also to Mr Segers the following question. Should it become apparent, when we ask the Prime Minister and former reformer, that there have been notes, is Mr Segers prepared to support with me the request to go through it again and see if they really cannot be shared with the Chamber? So we can see if it's about personal opinions or if it's just factual information that could actually be shared. Is Mr Segers prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u446	Very briefly, three things. One. The fact that something is not in an election programme is not a valid argument. I mean, you can keep repeating it... We are going to take many more decisions that have not been included in my election programme and in any election programme, because the situation is changing every time. Last year, more than a year ago, the election programs had to be written. Meanwhile, we are a lot further and, certainly as a result of the Brexit, a new situation has arisen that we must anticipate. That's one. Two. We talked about an initiative law of GroenLinks, among others, the Open Government Act. That is what we talked about at the table. We have even sat down with the proposers, because we have voted in favour in the end. But what was a condition for us? That is that in such a cabinet formation there must be freedom and space to really ask everything on the table. Then I must also have the freedom and space to ask for something you think: guys, if this ever comes out, it gets very uncomfortable, because it runs counter to my election program. But I need to be able to get it, because I need all the information, all the options, all the policy options, all the pros and cons on the table. If that becomes known, it may be uncomfortable, but it must be a free place to think freely. Then, and finally, you go outside, you stand here in a debate, you answer questions from colleagues here and you give the arguments you have, to the best of your knowledge. That's what matters. That is why the debate only counts here and not what was on the table or who said what when. Not relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u447	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u448	What I'm saying here is relevant. And the question you're asking, I'm trying to answer. That's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u449	Briefly one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u450	What we are talking about here is that I ask Mr Segers to support my request to look again at what was and whether it fits within the framework, so that it could be sent to the House of Representatives. That is the rather concrete question I am asking. And why does that matter to me? Because it was precisely this dividend tax that came into the coalition agreement. I'm sure there's also a lot of requests for information that haven't been dealt with in the end. That's not relevant to us as a room to know. But now it is a decision to spend 1.4 billion, when nobody here in the Chamber and nobody in the country really understands what that is based on. That's why I'm asking for this information. That's why. The specific request is whether Mr Segers supports the proposal to re-examine whether it really does not comply with the rules, whether there really are parties or people in trouble if it is simply shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u451	It would also be a credit to Mr Klaver if he took account of the fact that this is a dilemma, that this is an assessment and a consideration. That's the first thing. He says, "Nobody understands." But an employee of Unilever, an employee of Shell, an employee of Akzo understands very well that something is at stake. That's the first thing. That's what you really need to get rid of in the rhetoric. I give everyone his rhetoric, but this is the dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u452	No, Mr. Klaver, I'm not. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u453	That's one. Two. At the time I asked the authors of the law of GroenLinks: please, let that cabinet formation be a place of freedom of thought. I have that consistency now. I do want whatever would have been on the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u454	Thank you very much, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u455	... isn't being shared here again. The only thing I share here are my considerations and my arguments to say yes to the whole story. You can ask me about that. You did that. I answered the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u456	Thank you. No, Mr Klaver, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u457	A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u458	Mr Segers, you can sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u459	May I have a personal statement, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u460	Yes, you may have a personal statement, but Mr Segers may go to his place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u461	Mr President, Mr Segers is talking about rhetoric. What I base myself on is that companies referred to in the newspapers say: we have not insisted on reducing the dividend tax. That is why I ask for this and no other reason. This is hard content and not rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u462	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u463	To the bewilderment of the whole of the Netherlands the abolition of the dividend tax for foreign investors appeared out of nowhere in the coalition agreement. A measure which was not included in any electoral programme, which no Dutchman voted for on 15 March and with which the Dutch economy has nothing to gain very little. The Rutte III cabinet raises the healthcare premium by €300 per year and maintains the high own risk, preventing many people from paying adequate care. The Rutte III cabinet raises VAT by 50% from 6% to 9%, increasing the cost of messages and bringing SMEs into severe weather. The Rutte III cabinet will accelerate the reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction plus the Hillen Act, thus making it more expensive to have a mortgage but also to repay a mortgage. And the Rutte III cabinet increases the tax in box 2 from 25% to 28.5%, so that SMEs andzzp'ers with their own e.g. have to pay even more to the State. All burdens that people have to pay very clearly, very concretely for. In the meantime, however, the Rutte III cabinet finds 1,400 million annually to give away to abroad. 1.4 billion, 1,400 million a year. Again and again, the VVD campaigns in election time to reduce the burden, to stand up for entrepreneurs, for middle incomes, for hardworking ordinary Dutch people. And for years the burden under VVD-regime has been steadily increased. The only ones taking advantage of the planned policy? A small number of multinationals where remarkably many VVDs or former VVDs occupy prominent positions. A strange course of events which gives us great concern, which does not convince us, which we cannot go along with. What's to be done? Companies settle in countries where there is dynamism, where well-trained workers want to live and work. A country where work and enterprise pays off. A country where there is good infrastructure and where there are fast data and internet networks. That is what the Netherlands must invest in and that also makes Dutch people all better. The FvD tax plan is fairer, focuses on the interests of the Dutch population and brings the dynamics back into Dutch society. 1. The dividend tax remains where it is today, i.e. 15%. 2. We use the 1.4 billion to reduce the box 2 rate for SMEs to 15% instead of increasing it from 25% to 28.5% as Rutte wants. 3. The SME exemption for Ib entrepreneurs is also increased to 15%. Three times 15%. In addition, we gradually introduce a tax-free foot of €20,000 for all working Dutch. Some kind of basic income, but you have to work for it. It's all in our election program. It is free to consult on our website. If we do not hear any changes to the proposed plan this afternoon, we will therefore support Mr Wilders' motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u464	Thank you very much, Mr Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. Then we'll go to the Prime Minister's first term. There should never be any consultation with group chairmen on suspension. I suggest we suspend until 6:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u465	We will continue with the debate on dividend taxation. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u466	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe I can do it in such a way that I say a few things about the importance in the Netherlands of a strong business, but also a strong stock exchange. Look what's upstairs in the public gallery: make tax fair. I couldn't agree more. So I'm going to say something about that. Next, I would like to say something about continuity. We have, of course, been with this debate for some time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u467	Before you go any further, there is really no intention of taking action in the Chamber. I'd like you to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u468	They got a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u469	Don't provoke. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u470	Yes. Good evening. So let me first say something about the importance of a strong business but also of a strong financial sector and stock exchange. For the Netherlands, for our jobs. Then I would like to say something about the continuity of this discussion, which is not new. There has already been reference to Joop Wijn, Secretary of State for Wine, but there have been more moments, even here in the Chamber, on which this issue has been discussed. Then I would indeed like to comment on what is going on, over the past few years and this year, which has made this an urgent problem. First of all, perhaps the most important task we have as politicians. This, in addition to ensuring that the country is safe, is, of course, also ensuring that there are enough jobs. If I do one thing as Prime Minister, it's fighting for Dutch jobs, besides working very hard to keep this country safe. These are the most important tasks we, I think, have as politicians: security and jobs. Tonight we'll talk about jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u471	Information, will the Prime Minister come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u472	No. I think I just settled that in our interrupting debate during the order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u473	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask a question about that, if you don't mind. I asked a question in the order debate, and I'm just going to ask it again: have any notes been shared on the dividend tax at the table, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u474	Even answering that question doesn't suit me. I'll also explain why. There is a system in the Netherlands, in which we are now going to repeat the order debate, which may, no objections have been made about what is and will not be included in the formation archive. The cabinet has complied with that. If there were other documents on all kinds of subjects, requested by one of the four parties or whatever, there would be no official documents from the formation. There's a reason for that, too. This is partly due to the fact that private policy views, documents sent by officials to ministers and State Secretary are not made public. It's an extra thing here, because this is the formation. In the formation there must be protection for the parties which ultimately form a coalition, but also for those who may have taken part in those formation negotiations earlier in the process. This has also been the subject of a court ruling. It found that the negotiating nature of the formation precludes the provision of departmental documents which transcend what is made available in the formation archive. So even the question of whether there are any pieces at all, I'm not going to answer. If they were there, the question would be, "Would you like to look at it?" If they were there, could they be made public or not? For this reason, generically, what is outside the formation archive is not made public. Otherwise, such a formation cannot take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u475	Let me just get back to the order of business. This debate on the information has been conducted extensively before the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u476	That was an order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u477	Yes, that was an order debate. But that debate on order is being repeated and the positions have not changed, despite a number of interruptions. So we can repeat it now, but I think at some point it is up to the Chamber to try to get information through a motion or another way and not through the debate again. I do not think that makes much sense at the moment, and you know that, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u478	I will be very brief on this. Look, we're already calling this "doing an Ivo set-up." You say there's nothing to my best knowledge. Something's gonna come out and this cabinet's gonna be sitting with the fried pears. I would like to give this Prime Minister one last chance in this debate. Were there any items on the dividend tax on the table and, if so, would he then be prepared to look again at what can and cannot be shared, without compromising the confidentiality, for example, of what officials have brought in? That's my question. Those pieces are definitely there. If I look at how many pieces we received on 2 May alone, that was 15 annexes. Of course, all kinds of pieces have been produced about the dividend tax. There is great unrest in society, great unrest here in parliament. Take that road, Mr Rutte, by simply sharing those pieces with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u479	It would be a dangerous opportunity for me to comment on that. It doesn't even suit me to answer the question if there are any pieces. And why doesn't that fit me? Because, in response to Mr Klaver's first question, agreements have been made to protect negotiating parties, including those who have taken part in formations and who have not ended up in the cabinet. For example, I would like to recall, and I also believe that that court ruling is based on that, the situation in 2003, when the formation between CDA and PvdA stalled in April. Questions were asked about this too. The judge even found that the negotiating nature of the formation prevented the provision of departmental documents other than those contained in the formation archive. That is necessary, because in a formation I felt that Mr Segers explained this very well, it is very important that negotiators can have all kinds of thoughts on all kinds of subjects and perhaps ask questions about them as a party. It may be that a party has an idea that it will be able to provide official support and with which it will shop with other parties. There are all kinds of variants conceivable. If those kinds of pieces come out, it can bring parties politically into sensitive waters. This makes a formation, which is precisely about a completely free exchange of views, extremely vulnerable. So that's why. So I am not even going into the question of whether there are any pieces at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u480	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u481	Then see if there is any evidence that people are being harmed by these pieces of dividend tax. Why do I keep asking you about this? I have a piece in my hands that we discussed in the formation and that is not in the formation dossier either. This is an annex from a public report. For example, I have found three public annexes that have not been added to the formation file. Why is that relevant? Because colleagues here in the Chamber are entitled to know on what public reports we have based ourselves on in order to reach decisions. If they are not even there, I suspect the worst, namely that there is not enough careful consideration of what is and what cannot be shared. And it should be, at a time when the initiative for formation lies with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u482	That's really an accusation I find unjustified. Very careful consideration has been given to which pieces should be part of the formation file shared with the Chamber as a result of the practices. The fact that a public report was on the table is not in itself a reason to add the document to the formation file. The piece will be added to the formation file, I have also reported in response to previous interruptions, if such a case has actually been asked out to the governeur who is involved and sent to the formation table via the govern ment. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u483	We're back in the middle of an order debate now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u484	Not as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u485	A political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u486	I had a question for the Prime Minister. I put it up earlier, too. With the exception of whether there are notes from the Treasury, which I believe there are, but I cannot prove it, and which he does not want to give, we do not have that at the moment; we will come back to that later....... He came back to me with a whack-of-guidance answer. I don't accept that. It's like "you know how things are," souffled by D66. I asked the Prime Minister if a note could still be made by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u487	That's the same discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u488	To which the Prime Minister says: Mr Van Rooijen, you know that, that comes in six months from the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u489	That's the same discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u490	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u491	No, no, no, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u492	I do not accept the Prime Minister saying to me: just wait six months, go to sleep quietly, we will come up with a statement of reasons and you will hear what Finance thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u493	Mr Van Rooijen, this debate has taken place. The positions are clear, who is where. The Prime Minister is responding. You are not satisfied with that, but at some point I think: then you will ask for information by means of a vote in the Chamber, by means of a motion for a resolution, and then you will vote on it. But we cannot endlessly repeat the same questions and get the same answer, because there must also be other debates this evening, which are equally important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u494	Mr President, could I make my own point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u495	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u496	My point of order would be, unlike the rest of the opposition, to stop whining about notes. I will be the last to support the Prime Minister. In fact, I'll probably surprise him in a moment with a motion of censure. But I don't care which note is there. The cabinet and the coalition partners have made the decision to do it. We're gonna have to take care of them with or without a note. So please let us continue with the debate and stop whining about notes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u497	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u498	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going back to my introductory remarks. I had begun to say that the most important task we as politicians have is to keep the country safe and provide jobs. This debate is about jobs. It is very important that we have a strong business that consists of a richly diverse texture of smaller companies, medium-sized enterprises but also large companies, of which we know how important they are for the Netherlands and for jobs in the Netherlands. I will come back to this later in response to questions from Mr Van der Staaij, among others. At the same time, I would point out the following. There was an interesting debate yesterday at Nieuwsuur between Mr Asscher and the head of Euronext. Apart from the precise weighting of that debate, I think it was useful that this took place because it shows that, regardless of the presence of large companies, it is also important that large companies are listed on the market in the Netherlands. This is an additional interest because a strong exhibition of Amsterdam is again important for Amsterdam and therefore the Netherlands as a financial location. That goes beyond just the large producing companies. This is also about a strong financial sector. For all these sectors, there is a lot of supplying industry in small and medium-sized enterprises and elsewhere. Calculations have been made that a company like Shell alone is responsible for 2,000 supplying companies, which together generate more than 3 billion in revenue, regardless of Shell turnover. That goes from cleaners to consultants, engineers, all kinds of people who are in the fur collar around such a company, in the immediate vicinity of such a company supplying and fulfilling important roles. That's point one. Then there has been a debate in the Netherlands for some time about how we should deal with the dividend tax, which, as many speakers rightly pointed out in the first term, must of course always be part of a broader consideration of the locational environment, in which other elements also play a role. I would point out what Secretary of State Joop Wijn said about this in 2005. When he reduced the dividend tax, he said that his belief was that that dividend tax would eventually not survive. Three years later, in 2008, there was a hearing in the Lower House, in which broad support for the abolition of the dividend tax was advocated. As Mr Buma and others said, that did not happen. Why didn't that happen? Because then the economic crisis arose, it was all hands on deck and it was certainly not possible to do so at that time. Why did people come to the conclusion that it is very important not only to reduce the dividend tax but ultimately also to abolish it? Because in the mix with all the other measures you can look at, it is disruptive, for example at stock exchange prices. Mr Roemer referred to the answer to Question 25. That answer is exactly why it is important that companies in the mix of measures should not ultimately have to pay dividends tax, because, in the longer term, investors in particular - I am not talking about the flash capitalists - are willing to pay more for the shares. That's what's gonna make the course rise. What's the effect of that? That companies know how to protect themselves better. We discussed in detail earlier this year in the Chamber about protection structures for Dutch companies which threatened to be taken over. You should, but you can't just think about protection structures. You can't rig those protection structures endlessly. You will also have to look at the question: why are these companies vulnerable at all to these kinds of foreign acquisitions? In that case, the dividend tax in particular has a distorting effect. What's going on in the last 12 to 18 months? I will come to Mr Wilders afterwards, Mr President. Allow me to make this point. There are a few elements that have already been mentioned in the debate. Firstly, we see increasing pressure on listed companies to deliver value for their shareholders. It's a well-known fact. We also see that the pressure of activist shareholders has increased in recent years. We can find what we want, but it's a global phenomenon. The Netherlands is a very internationally active country. We are a small country with a small economy of our own, but we are very internationally connected. So if such a development occurs, it is relevant to us. Of course, the search for return also has its downside, but in the end it is essential if we want to continue to finance all the costs, such as our pensions and health care, including for future generations. The second element is the low interest rates. I'd like to mention that here, too. They're historically low. This is, of course, partly due to the low interest rate policy of the central banks in America, England and Europe, the euro area. There are now companies that have cash registers with which you can buy almost an entire AEX company; we have seen that. The large AEX companies are also vulnerable to this. We were able to see that at Akzo and Unilever. But we have seen before that this eventually put companies under attack. It is right that we here in the Chamber said to each other: we cannot; we must be in favour of that. Then we must also ask ourselves what we can do to stay ahead of it. Even countries that were designated as developing countries when we were all in school now have sovereign wealth funds. In the end, they are also able to make very large acquisitions. It is therefore no surprise that we are now seeing or expecting mergers and acquisitions which were completely unthinkable a few years ago. Finally, a third element. That element has also been mentioned, namely the Brexit. The Brexit is a major risk to the British economy; that is clear. It is certainly also a risk for American, Japanese and other banks that have settled in the city. They will not be in the United Kingdom so soon. At the same time, we see that the United Kingdom is very active in moving manufacturing companies and their headquarters in the United Kingdom. This is vital for the future economic position of the United Kingdom. I should like to conclude my introductory remarks. Then, of course, the interruptions will follow and I will answer the further questions. As a joining coalition, you have to ask yourself how we deal with this. The dividend tax has been under discussion for more than ten years as a distorting tax, even at European level, regardless of the reduction of corporation tax. Mr Pechtold appealed to his sense of Europe, but I would like to reverse that. It is precisely when you are pro-European that you know that it has often been said that the dividend tax is distorting for the free movement of capital. That is one of the freedoms in Europe. It is not prohibited, but Europe has for years been looking very critically at dividend taxes as distorting for the free movement of capital. That was also reported at the hearing in 2008. As an incoming coalition, you have the final question to ask yourself: what should we do with the limited resources that are there to take sensible steps so that this country remains competitive and we can keep and attract the big companies here? It's both defensive and offensive. After extensive discussion, we finally concluded, on the basis of the complex of facts that lies here, that this is an important measure to ensure that this type of activity is maintained here and can get there. I shall now turn to the question of which economists are all in favour of it. There are many more that are positive about this than is suggested. I'd be happy to give you those lists. But in the end, it's always a judgement call from politicians to say, based on all the information there is, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u499	Thank you for that brief introduction. The Prime Minister always talks about 2006 and 2007. Now we have looked at what has been published in recent years by the cabinet itself. I have a whole bunch of reports and letters from the cabinet in my hand. For example, there is a Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency, the NFIA. This is part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in 2015 and 2016 has written reports on the Dutch location climate: when does a company come to the Netherlands and when does it leave? There are also letters from Minister Henk Kamp of EZ, in which he assesses this. In this whole package of recent years, the word dividend tax does not occur once. There are major analyses in the field of health care when do companies, what is stopping them, come from education to care to infrastructure? However, the word dividend tax is not mentioned once in these documents of your previous cabinet, of your own body, of your own minister. Then why isn't that in here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u500	I think Mr Kamp has rightly pointed out two things in his reports to the Chamber. First of all, he pointed out that there are a lot of intangibles, indirect factors, which are of great importance for the locational environment. These are indeed our excellent education, our good infrastructure, our social climate. When foreign companies consider coming here and I speak with such a top man, I sometimes say: the children can ride their bikes to school. We're making huge investments in our roads, in our tracks. It is a safe country, with a good culture, the best orchestras, the best theatre and ballet companies in the world. Those are all those intangibles that are of great importance for the locational climate. Camp's right to point that out. In addition, we know that the cabinet has always argued that you will always have to look at what overall the fiscal climate is. That's an important consideration. In recent years, there has been little room. We were in an economic crisis. So what we've been able to do in recent years was look at the smaller companies in relation to the Vpb tax. In that we have been able to do something with the previous cabinet. We have looked at how to translate the broadening of the basis that has taken place here and there, including through European measures to combat tax avoidance, into a reduction of the Vpb for the smaller companies at least. We have communicated very openly that in that coalition it was not politically possible to do it for the big companies as well. However, PvdA and VVD have reached an agreement for small businesses. At that moment simply the money was missing. We finally had financial space in 2015, which I think we rightly put in place in order to reduce income tax. But at that time there was absolutely no room to take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u501	The Prime Minister's strategy today is to talk a lot and ignore the questions. I did not ask at all what Mr Kamp said or did not say. I have said that in all these documents and letters from Minister Kamp the word dividend tax, which you now consider so important, does not occur once. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister, through you, Madam President, just be honest. You didn't do it for jobs at all. There is no evidence whatsoever that it produced one job or holds one company here in the Netherlands or brings it here. You did it to spawn your VVD friends, to admit to your old employer, Unilever, where you might expect a nice job in the future, a party nose. Or Mr. Zalm with Shell or your friend, Mr. Verwaayen, Commissioner at Akzo, all VVD'ers are in charge of helping their companies and their foreign investors. That's what you did. It's not good for the Netherlands at all. It's good for your party, for the VVD, for the nice jobs, for your future! Just admit it honestly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u502	It remains beautiful how Mr Wilders, when I think: deeper he cannot fail again and again to lower further. It's so disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u503	It's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u504	If you analyze this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u505	It's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u506	If you analyse what Mr Wilders is suggesting here: there is such a false suggestion about the motives why we would do this, that I won't grace it with an answer. I'm not even gonna try to refute this nonsense. I'm just gonna leave this with the voter and then we're gonna see how an average voter looks at this. It's so wrong. And it's the same party that said today that Kajsa Ollongren should go to jail for 30 years because of something she said about Amsterdam. Really, the PVV is sinking into the polls like old underwear, and I can see why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u507	Mr Rutte seems to be having a very difficult time. Because this is actually the first time I've been standing here in all these years, he just doesn't want to answer the question. That means we're gonna shoot. We're gonna hit. They're all companies of VVD friends. Mr Rutte has worked at Unilever for ten years. He probably wants to return there later on to the board of directors or a Commissariat. Mr. Zalm is not just a VVD; he has been the informant of this cabinet. The informant of this cabinet has a commissioner at Shell's office. Mr Verwaayen writes to the election programme. Mr Rutte goes there every summer with a group of VVD'ers. He has a commissioner at Akzo. You're gonna cut off your own boyfriends. If you would have done it for the Netherlands, you would have reduced the rents or reduced the risk. Then you would have done something for the Dutch. You're sitting in the middle of your own party and making sure your own future is secure. That's bad. For this reason alone, you deserve a motion of censure immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u508	Let me respond briefly to this. Mr Wilders' analysis is not correct. It's from a to z bullshit, lying and suggestive. It's of a political level that I don't want to comment on. We are doing this because in the Netherlands 2 million people working in the free business sector depend on jobs in internationally working companies. It is therefore very important that we keep this country attractive to that type of activity. That's why we're doing this. I'm fighting in this job for jobs for Dutch people. I have a very nice position. I'm not dealing with myself. Mr Wilders is not either, I hope. Let us not lower the debate to this level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u509	I would like to touch on the Minister's point that it would be mainly about foreign investors. My question is: can he confirm that a large proportion goes to the treasury abroad and not to foreign investors? And what part is that? I understand from the answers, as well as from today's FD, that Finance and the Tax Administration won't tell me. Is it what SOMO says, or is it fifty-fifty? Because if most of it goes to the treasury, you can't say it's for investors. My second point concerns the CDA's motions on the items Nos. 84 and 85 on the protection structures adopted around the debate on Akzo. I pointed that out this afternoon; perhaps the Prime Minister will go into that now or later. Those motions stated that it is very important for employment and its preservation that locusts do not take over Dutch companies. Will the Prime Minister comment on this and say whether this has already been dealt with sufficiently in the formation, or whether he is coming up with new, additional proposals for protection, as in America?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u510	To begin with, we have, of course, discussed this with each other in this Chamber and also in the formation. That's what you see in the coalition agreement. But I also just said: you can only go as far as creating protection structures, because in the end that will have effects on, for example, stock exchange prices. Long-term investors will take that into account when deciding whether to invest in those shares. This therefore has primary consequences for the Amsterdam Stock Exchange and secondary for companies. That's gonna be a problem in the end. So you can't go on with that endlessly. The things we agreed on, I think are wise. But you'll always have to mix. I am in favour of this type of measure, provided that it is sensible, and I think that the CDA's proposals you mention are sensible proposals. You can see that in the coalition agreement. At the same time, you will have to ask yourself whether the tax mix you have as a country makes the country sufficiently competitive. Then I'll go to your first point, the SOMO investigation you're quoting. Menno Snel did not respond to SOMO, but he answered similar questions in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u511	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u512	The Secretary of State for Finance, yes. He says that this is a very rich issue and that you cannot answer it exactly. In his letter he mentions many specific examples, which I will not repeat here. We've all been able to read the letter. These examples show that this is a complex issue. At the same time, I would like to add one more thing. Such an image of SOMO is always a partial image, and of course that also applies to Menno Snel's letter about the existing situation. 'Cause you don't see in those numbers what you don't have. The long-term investors for whom dividend returns are important are often long-term investors and for whom the dividend tax is a threshold, Dutch shares will be avoided. This is also reflected in what has been called the turnoff on the Dutch shares in the past. That means they're a little lower than they should be. Those investors will therefore also be underrepresented in the figures. With these measures, we want to make the Dutch shares attractive to these investors, so that these companies can ultimately take a stronger stand, in line with the answer to question 25, against, for example, foreign acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u513	May I specifically ask the Prime Minister: what of the 1.4 billion goes to the foreign treasury or foreign investors? If he is unable to give the answer more precisely now, if the answers received from the Secretary of State are not clear, can he promise that he will indicate in the next week how much is going to the foreign treasury? Is that a billion dollars? Is that 70%? My information from a long time ago from finance, from a good source, is that it used to be 60% and probably 50% now. Then I'm still way below SOMO's estimate. That's got to be checkin' out. The second question is: are you going to carry out the CDA's motion to achieve far-reaching protection, to organise an investment committee à la America to protect strategic sectors? That is much more effective than the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u514	I have just given the answer to that last question. The coalition agreement says a number of things, so I am not going to deal with all kinds of motions separately that have been adopted earlier here. I also answered the first question. I refer to Mr Snel's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u515	Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the effect he describes, namely that higher returns for long-term investors, only occurs with investors from countries with which we do not have a tax treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u516	No. We are talking about the course of these companies in the Netherlands. There is an indirect effect of abolishing the dividend tax. That has to do with where it ends up. That is exactly what I was replying to Mr Van Rooijen's question. In addition, it has a direct effect on stock exchange prices. One of the reasons why we are taking these measures is that we are making sure that companies are also able to respond more effectively to takeovers, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u517	That doesn't match the Prime Minister's own answers. In his answer to that famous question 25, he indicated that part of the investors are meant to be investors from countries with which we do not have a tax treaty and that the return will increase and that a well-functioning capital market will have a positive effect on the price. I think that's a fact, not controversial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u518	Well... That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u519	I quote your own text here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u520	I'll tell you what it says. The Dutch discount, i.e. the fact that Dutch shares are less valued than comparable shares in other countries, ultimately has to do with the whole mix of measures. If you increase the protection structures too far, it will have an effect on your stock prices. In terms of tax mix, if you take measures that affect the stock exchange price, you will also see stock exchange prices fall. The dividend tax is one of the reasons why in a number of cases stock exchange funds say: our share is lower than it would have to be if there were no dividend tax. So one of the effects why you want to do this, regardless of the administrative measures and the European context, is that companies will be better able to respond. Their share will increase as a result of this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u521	That really is not a clarification of the text itself. The question was: does this help to prevent takeovers? The Prime Minister's answer is: you cannot give it a clear impact. That is also right, because neither the Secretary of State nor the Prime Minister knows which part of the investors actually gets more returns and what could therefore have a positive effect on the stock exchange price. Why am I going to this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u522	But it's not about the return they get from the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u523	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u524	It's also about the stock exchange itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u525	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u526	And in my answer, I say that this also has to do with how the capital markets work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u527	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u528	They depend on that, too. There are always indirect effects, of course. That is why I did not agree with how Mr Roemer explained my answer to Question 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u529	But the argument, in your own text, is that part of the investors receive more returns and that that works positively on the prices. That part of investors who receive more returns are investors from countries with which we have no treaty. My point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u530	No, that's not the point. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u531	Mr Asscher, finish the question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u532	You can deny it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u533	Then I'm unclear in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u534	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u535	Then he has to answer Question 25 again, because it literally states what I am saying here. It is important because with a lot of money, 1.4 billion, some of the investors are giving a slightly higher return on their investors from countries like Chile, Taiwan and so on, hoping that the stock exchange rate will be strengthened, which will slow down the take-over of companies. It's an unimaginable ineffective mechanism if you want to achieve that goal. That is what I am addressing the Prime Minister. He has a responsibility not only to fight for jobs, but also a responsibility for how we deal with the money of all Dutch people. Here a very ineffective use is chosen. The reasoning therefore needs to be improved. A reasoning has been devised in the past few weeks, but it needs to be improved. In his own reply, the Prime Minister says: no unambiguous effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u536	No, in the end, there are three effects. Two of them are mentioned in the answer but apparently not clear enough, so let me explain them. Firstly, there is, of course, an effect on those who in the past had to do with dividend taxation and could not offset it. They have an advantage if you abolish the dividend tax; that makes sense. That is not what we are primarily concerned with, because that would be too limited an effect. It also falls mostly abroad. The direct national effect is the effect on the Dutch discount, so the fact that our shares are a little less valued because, in the overall tax mix with the Vpb but also with the dividend tax, a share quoted in Amsterdam ultimately has a disadvantage from the existence of dividend tax, regardless of the entire administrative burden and the European context. The stock's gonna rise a little bit. In the answer, I will say that, of course, this also depends on the functioning of the capital market. Apart from the answer to question 25, there is a third effect. You can never say exactly, but it is very likely that there are also many investors who, precisely because of the dividend tax at the moment, do not invest in Dutch shares, and will do so when the dividend tax is no longer there. That will have a further price effect on the shares. That in turn is good for the protection you need to ensure that our companies are less sensitive to foreign acquisitions. That is, I think, one of our common goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u537	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u538	Finally. There are now assumptions in the debate: it is very likely that investors would judge differently, it is very likely that the price would be different and it is very likely that this will have an effect. What are these assumptions based on? In the previous debate, they were conversations and personal impressions, which we should not know about. There are no memos, there are no receipts, they were impressions of the Prime Minister from his many international contacts. Now it's "very plausible." Well, then I'd like an explanation, too. The only justification I have is the Prime Minister's answer, which says: no unambiguous effect. EUR 1.4 billion goes into the sea, but there is no clear impact. Now there are all sorts of assumptions. That screams for support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u539	I'd also like to try to deliver it further. For example, we have seen the research of Dackehag and Hansson from the University of Lund in Sweden. They have examined the impact of dividend taxation on the economy in 18 European countries. This is reported in 2017. The conclusion is that investment and business decisions are influenced by dividend taxation in such a way that this is negative for the economy. The same school of economists also includes American economists, such as James Poterba and Larry Summers. Then we have Professor of European Income and Corporate Taxation Hans van den Hurk of Maastricht University, who also links the dividend tax with the United Kingdom, i.e. the Brexit, and its significance. He also shows that the United Kingdom has an important advantage over the Netherlands and that we must do something to prevent us from missing the boat. He also drew attention to developments in America, where political decision-making is now taking place in order to ensure that the tax system is adapted in such a way that profits made abroad will in principle no longer be taxed. Another feature of the new rules is that the dividend tax paid by Americans in the Netherlands can no longer be offset by the tax they have to pay in their own country. These are relevant developments. I've got a whole list of economists like this. Of course Stef van Weeghel has also sailed by in the first term of this debate. He pointed out the difference in treatment between domestic and foreign investors. He also pointed out the legal vulnerability of the dividend tax. There's more like that. I've got a whole list of economists like this. You can also see it when you go back to the debate here in the Chamber, for example to the hearing in 2008 or to what Joop Wijn said about it in 2005. You actually see a consistent reasoning. It is a mix with other measures. It's not just the dividend tax; you're gonna have to do a lot more. If this country, with its own small economy and with many foreign companies that have established itself here, is to remain attractive, with its own small market, then we will have to continue to look very critically at this type of element. As economists of name and fame back that up, I would like to share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u540	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u541	Mr President, it is crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u542	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u543	Last time I asked for three economists. They have now been found, at the end, but the decision has not been made on the basis of that economic knowledge. We learned that last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u544	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u545	The question was actually for Rutte, not for Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u546	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u547	The assumption doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u548	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u549	Mr Asscher is a bit ahead of my future job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u550	Economist!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u551	Economist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u552	Well, we're done with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u553	I want to say something about timing. I can hear Mr Rutte say between his nose and lips: "It is always wise to do this. I'm assuming it's gonna pay more than it costs. It's an investment, but it wasn't appropriate a few years ago. It wasn't wise to do it then, because we were in a crisis." But if something's worth more than it costs, don't you always have to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u554	As a liberal, for example, I am very much in favour of reducing taxes even further, because I think that will produce more than it costs. But it's called income effects. Fortunately, we have sensible finance ministers in the Netherlands who say: first, make sure that the money is on the shelf. Mr Van Rooijen also recognizes this from his time, I think. In the crisis we had between 2008 and 2015/2016, that was simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u555	No, because then the Dutch taxpayers and companies coughed up the burden of 51 billion. As a result, the economy is now in good shape and you feel called upon to present that 1.4 billion to foreign investors. Now there are economists who say that we see the same characteristics as before the 2008 crisis. If it is another crisis in one and a half years or two years, no one can see in the future, will you then reverse the tax measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u556	No, then we're not going to reverse this tax measure. Then we're gonna have to go fuck ourselves again, like we always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u557	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u558	And then the Dutch taxpayers and the companies can cough that up again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u559	Mr. Azarkan, this is a general question about what to do in an economic recession. I hope we can put it out for as long as we can. At the same time, we are taking this type of measure to make the structure of our economy so much more competitive, so that if there is a crisis, the shocks will occur to a lesser extent than the previous one. That is why we are taking this type of action. You can never rule out a crisis. If there is a crisis, a sensible government will take measures to ensure that as many cracks are spent as they come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u560	No, Mr Van Rooijen. You've already been to this point. I'm not gonna do circles every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u561	I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u562	No, you really have to wait until we're done. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u563	Until the end of the day. Over the past four days, the Prime Minister has looked up some research to see what he can quote. It's interesting that he says that taxes have a disruptive effect. Yeah, it's got all the taxes. By definition, any tax is disruptive. I'm gonna go back to question 25 anyway. A lot comes back to Question 25 and the answer to that. It indicates that it depends on how well capital markets function or companies are less vulnerable. What assumption on the functioning of the capital markets is the basis of the decision to abolish the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u564	It is a historical fact that, in general, in a normally functioning economic period, we find ourselves, fortunately, reacting reasonably rationally in capital markets at the moment. With the removal of the dividend tax, we expect the exit at the level of Dutch shares to be reduced and perhaps even disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u565	This is abracadabra. I asked: what is the assumption about the functioning of the capital markets? I don't need to learn some kind of lesson here about how capital markets can fluctuate. I can understand that myself. They're historically low. So if you say that it helps to abolish the dividend tax, but that it depends on how capital markets function, then my question is: what scenario about the functioning of the capital market is the basis for that? Are you assuming the interest rates remain the same? Does it have any effect? Are you assuming that abolishing the dividend tax will only have an effect if interest rates increase by one percent? What is the basis for this assumption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u566	There's a primary and a secondary. The assumption underlying it is primarily... Now Mr. Clover is gonna laugh while I try to serve him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u567	When he talks about primary and secondary, I always say: then you have to be careful, because then you are pushed in a direction. But I'm gonna listen. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u568	I notice that a lot of parties are asking the coalition if we are prepared to look again at the measure, but I do not quite feel that this willingness is there. I try to conduct the debate on the substance as much as possible, even if Mr Klaver is irritated. First, on the primary and secondary assumptions. The primary assumption is next. If you do not have the dividend tax in other countries and you do have the dividend tax here, it will of course have a disruptive effect on the functioning of your market. It may also have a disruptive effect on the functioning of your stock exchanges. It affects the stock price. That's a primary effect. The secondary effects may be linked to the further functioning of the capital market. For example, you talk about how the interest rate develops. Of course, all these things are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u569	I didn't ask that question. I would very much like to listen to the arguments of this cabinet. That's what we ask for all the time. Do you think we could see some of the behind pieces? Can you still mention this argument? I am very serious about the answers you have given to the questions that have been asked. You say that it depends on how capital markets function. I think it depends on that. But when you say that abolishing the dividend tax has an effect, you assume an assumption of how this should work. So my question is when is the abolition of the dividend tax going to work? Does that work under the current capital market and what it looks like now? Does interest have to rise first? Does it have to descend before it does? That is my very, very specific question. I'd just like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u570	But the primary effect isn't dependent on that, is it? The primary effect is the fact that a share may be quoted in Amsterdam lower than on another stock exchange where the dividend tax is not levied. This certainly applies to companies that work in all kinds of countries and have stock exchange listings there. Of course, that is often the case. Many companies also have a listing in the UK or even in three countries: Amsterdam, London and New York. That will of course be relevant for the listing of that type of shares on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, especially if such a company also has different types of shares. Then having a dividend tax will therefore be included in the price. This is a primary effect that is independent of interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u571	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u572	It says here: there is no clear effect in this context of abolishing the dividend tax. This is pretty crucial. The only argument left for this cabinet to abolish the dividend tax is employment. This is about keeping companies here and ensuring that hostile takeovers are prevented. It is said that there is no clear effect. It is indicated that the effect of abolishing the dividend tax depends on the functioning of that market, on the capital market. And then I don't ask about the primary or the secondary effect. I am asking what the assumption is about the functioning of the capital market under which the dividend tax is going to work. I'm asking for the fourth time now. This is important to get an answer. What is the reason for doing this? I haven't heard an argument that lasts forever. So far, all my colleagues have taken it down. What's the effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u573	Well, you can't be the prosecutor and the judge here. Whether that's true, determining, I think, other people. What has been established is that I have not yet convinced you, Mr Klaver, I say through the President. I'm gonna do my best to do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u574	You'll have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u575	Exactly, and that is so beautiful of this debate. 'Cause I think I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u576	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u577	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u578	One gets ten minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u579	No, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u580	I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u581	You've been at this point. I suggest that the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u582	I don't understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u583	No, Mr Van Rooijen. You asked a question on this point. None of this is in the Acts because the microphone is not on, Mr Van Rooijen. I suggest that the Prime Minister continue answering the questions. You will have the opportunity to ask a question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u584	This was my general introduction. Then I'm gonna take another look. The advantage is, of course, that it is always the strength of the debate with group chairmen that they ask a lot of questions that I intended to answer. Let me show you how nice I am. Here it is. We've had all the economists. Belgium. I told my Belgian colleague on Sunday evening that I should not have done so. I should not have mentioned that Belgian example. And the way I formulated that was also debilitating. So I simply shouldn't have done that. Belgium, of course, simply has a strong economy and is a highly valued partner in the Benelux. Yeah, that's just the way it is. It's just a strong country. Only on this point did I mention a fact of fact that I also hold on to, but I packed it in a way that was extremely rude and unnecessarily offensive towards the Belgians. I want that corrected on this point. Mr Van der Staaij had a question about the balance between burden relief for SMEs and families. In the Centraal Planbureau's credit transfer, the government agreement will reduce the burden on families of nearly 6 billion in 2021 and increase the burden on companies of 100 million. By the way, there is no such tax on dividends. I'll have to say that right away, because then that would be... Anyway, the question is, of course, where exactly it falls. That question has already been asked by a number of people here. The Central Planning Office has therefore not taken them into account in the burden increases or reductions. I believe that the package for companies in the government agreement is balanced. We show that with the whole package we have an eye for the tax settlement environment. The VPB reduction actually pays itself out of the broadening of the basis, which largely results from measures to combat tax avoidance at European level, but also from all kinds of greening measures. It is now important that it is attractive for companies with real activities in the Netherlands. This is also good for the investment capacity of both large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. I mentioned already the calculations made by VNO-NCW: in 2016, 2,000 Dutch companies had a turnover of 3.8 billion euros thanks to Shell. That is the answer to one question by Mr Van der Staaij. He had more questions, but I see Mr Asscher appearing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u585	I also see Mr Asscher, but I would suggest that you answer all the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u586	I got another question from...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u587	But about Belgium...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u588	No, you will have the opportunity to respond, together with Mr Van Rooijen, because he is also angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u589	Mr Asscher is not angry, I can assure you, but he still has to wait, I understand from the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u590	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u591	The SGP had another more specific question: is there a better understanding of the value of the presence of multinationals for small and medium-sized enterprises? I can point out a report from the Boston Consulting Group. They calculated a multiplier of 2.5 a few years ago. In other words, they say that for every job at a head office, an average of 2.5 jobs are created in the rest of the economy. That report is from a few years ago, but there is no reason to believe that these relations are very different now. It is also important that a whole ecosystem exists around large companies and the so-called mainports, which are highly dependent on larger businesses. We see that at the brainport in the Eindhoven region and at FoodValley around Wageningen... for the radio listeners: Mr Asscher has given his chair back to the leader of GroenLinks. A number of large companies also play a central role in this. For example, you can see it, very interesting, back in the region around Eindhoven. In 1999, Philips founded the High Tech Campus. In the meantime, a number of former Philips companies "ASML" and "NXP" are very dominant, but around that an entire company has emerged, including PANalytical, which is now also a large company, Gibson and FEI. In fact, Philips was a founder of the brainport. This says something about the commitment to research and development of large companies and their decision-making. One could say: if the headquarters leave, the research-and-development lab does not have to disappear immediately, or other investments of the company do not have to disappear. However, in the first term of the Chamber, several people rightly pointed out: where the head office is located, apart from the direct multiplier, it has an effect on this type of decision. Where are we going to invest? Where do our research and development activities come from? How deeply do we want to be anchored as a local player in the local economy and the spin-off that brings it? Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that multinationals are naturally international in nature with an international network. SMEs and start-ups can very often use the ecosystem of large companies. These large companies thus open the doors to smaller companies through their ecosystem to work internationally. That is all the more interesting because at the moment, also due to developments on the Internet, very small companies with only a few employees worldwide operate and produce locally. I've seen them on trade missions. Through the most modern web technologies, they are able to offer their products around the world, using the infrastructure of large companies. There is much more to be said, but these were a number of elements of the enormous importance of the internationally operating business. Mrs Thieme asked about the study of Chetty and Saez. We are familiar with that report, but that is about the US dividend tax. This is best compared to what we do in the Netherlands with Dutch income tax in box 2. We charge, as we know, at a company on the outgoing stream, at the source. Despite the fact that it seems the same because of the name, they are very different taxes and so that report does not touch the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pechtold asked when the cabinet would come up with detailed plans. Now I've lost the answer to these questions, but I'm saying from my mind that the Secretary of State for Finance comes in February with... I see someone reporting January. Isn't that January? February? Okay, once again, at the beginning of next year, Secretary of State Snel is coming up with a letter to the Chamber in which the entire investment climate is dealt with in an integrated way and in which all the plans of the coalition agreement are brought together in full. The Christian Union, Mr Segers, asked me about dividends in abusive situations. That is also what the coalition agreement says. The government agreement states on the one hand that we want to abolish the dividend tax, but it also states that there will be a withholding tax on dividends in abusive situations and on low tax jurisdictions. So you have to think of lifting artificial structures and direct payments to countries with very low taxes. Of course, we are all going to discuss this with each other in greater detail, so that element comes back. That is understood and, I think, at the moment also provide for the plans as they are. Mr President, I believe that, unless someone jumps up terribly angry now, I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u592	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u593	I think Thieme was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u594	Now look! Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u595	Thank you. The Prime Minister has responded to my question about the Chetty and Saez report. He says: that does not apply to the Dutch situation, because they levy the dividend tax in another way, comparable to box 2 in the Netherlands. The point is, Mr President, that the dividend tax is going down and that you then see as a direct response that more dividends are being paid out. The shareholders are actually going to get even more out of these companies and that is at the expense of the other interests of such companies, namely the continuation of the company, the realisation of work, the development of new products and innovation. So again the question: why does the cabinet not take this analysis seriously when the cabinet really is about creating more jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u596	Again, because you compare apples to pears. This is something else. The large Dutch companies paying dividends tax and also coughing up most of them are companies with what you call classic shares. Those are companies that actually try to maintain that dividend in worse times because they know that it is in the smaller pension funds and in the elderly and pensioners. Those are what we call classic popular shares. I don't think you can blame those companies for trying unnecessarily to lower or raise the dividend share. But in this research it is more specifically about a tax in box 2, and that is really something quite different. This has very own effects that you can't just compare with a dividend tax that you do at the outgoing stream, at the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u597	Mr President, that is really bullshit. The point is that when the dividend tax goes down, the signal goes to the company: come up with more dividend payments. This has negative effects on the company. That means the company is seen as an ATM. I have already indicated this in my first term, and this has also been demonstrated in this 2005 study. Whether it is done on the one hand, directly abolishing the dividend tax, or via box 2 or otherwise, the point is that the shareholders will ask for a higher dividend payment in the event of a lower dividend tax and in the case of no dividend tax. That's the big threat to a company like this. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he has taken this into account and on the basis of what investigations he thinks that this mechanism will not take place here in the Netherlands. So far, Mr President, we have only heard assumptions from the Prime Minister, while the opposition has come up with all kinds of facts. I call the SOMO report and all kinds of services provided by VNO-NCW, which shows that companies are not leaving at all because of the dividend tax. I would like to get independent research from the Prime Minister himself which shows that these effects would not apply to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u598	I'm sticking to the previous answer. It's really a different tax. That's how you compare real apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u599	What fascinates me in this speech by the Prime Minister is the following. If his European colleagues were to listen to this glowing speech, let me put it this way, they would have to start wondering what they, our neighbouring countries, Germany, France, are doing wrong if they maintain 25% or 30% dividend taxes. In fact, you should explain that those countries should also give up what they cost billions. If Germany abolishes the dividend tax, it will cost Germany many billions. So they won't do that for that reason alone. I ask you if you are willing to explain at the next summit what we are doing and then ask: do you think that is wise? Will you join us to prevent a race to the bottom? Then you'll see you're on your own. I'd like to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u600	I don't think it's necessary. Mr Van Rooijen does not mention a very important element in the discussion. That element is that there is a very big difference between smaller economies with many internationally operating companies, such as the Dutch, and large economies with a large domestic market. France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy are large economies. Spain is a larger economy. That is why I made the unfortunate remark about Belgium, which is also a small economy. Again, I was far too rude in how I brought it; I shouldn't have done that. Economies such as those of the Netherlands or other smaller economies, especially if they have many international companies that are important for their national prosperity, must ask themselves how they want to compete with those other countries. I would just like to mention the example of corporation tax. It is said that in France, corporation tax may go to 25%. Then why does it have to go to 21% in the Netherlands? That's for the same reason. By the way, you're still around the European average with 21%, which means you're slightly below Scandinavia. So it's not that low. Only 25% versus 21% also have to do with large economies versus smaller economies. The same applies to the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u601	I can follow that from corporate tax. But my question, which I have asked before, is the following. Primarily, the dividend tax is nothing but a division between two countries, the country of payment and the country of receipt. Normally that means that the Netherlands says that it wants to have half of the income tax of 30% abroad. But what are you doing? You say: let the country where the dividend goes, but just raise 30%, and we no longer charge it 15%. That's really weird, isn't it? That's not a merchant spirit, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u602	That is why I have just wanted to show that I am referring to Menno Snel's letter, and there are also other documents published today that are still available that, apart from the question of how the benefits in the immediate financial sense ultimately work out, there are other effects that we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u603	Mr. Snel is the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u604	Menno Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance. There are other cases why you're doing this. This has to do with the general climate of establishment. In a discussion with Mr Klaver, I also stressed the importance of the stock exchange price, both primary and secondary. It's a broader discussion. It is not just the question of where exactly that 1.4 billion lands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u605	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u606	It also has to do with the question of what happens if you maintain the dividend tax, knowing how much it works. That's not something I suddenly find. That is what we have been finding since 2005 and since 2008, and we have all the economists who support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u607	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u608	Thank you for letting me ask the question I couldn't ask earlier. That question is about the stock exchange price of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. I don't understand any of that. In all countries with a dividend tax there is also a stock exchange, in Frankfurt, in Paris and so on. Then you can't say it's a disadvantage for the Amsterdam scholarship if we don't do this? Other countries have a much higher dividend tax, 25% to 30%, and I do not hear anyone saying: we must abolish the dividend tax because of the stock exchange in Frankfurt or Paris or Madrid. Then you can't say it has to be because of Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u609	This relevance is, of course, primarily due to the fact that many of the types of companies that are in the Netherlands or which we would like to bring to the Netherlands are companies that have traditionally worked in both jurisdictions, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. They also have quotations on both exchanges and often have different stock structures on both exchanges, with one dividend tax and the other not. In addition, there are, of course, a lot of companies in the UK that are worried about Brexit and may want to consider coming to the mainland. Then I think it is important for us to be open to these companies. That is why it is so important that we do this, that we constantly ask ourselves, both in the protection structures and throughout the tax mix, how we can take sensible measures to remain as attractive as possible to companies that are here and companies that want to come here. That is what we are doing here, not because we think those companies and logos are primarily important, but because of the many jobs behind them and what we are all fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u610	Has the Prime Minister ever been told in one of his talks with companies and organisations that companies or organisations would leave if this tax were not abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u611	No, it's not that direct. But it has been said, of course, that companies will take this into account in their decision-making. But it's not like you're being blackmailed by a company. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u612	Oh, thank God. Can the Prime Minister then take me with him in the moment of origin, to the concrete event that gave rise to his belief in this measure? Because that moment is after the election programme of the VVD, which has already appeared long after the Brexit. Somewhere this faith was created, by an event we do not know, in a conversation in which there was no threat or blackmail and without a memo, note or plea. You are very sure, while most economists indicate that the effect is unclear or not. So what exactly is the concrete event that caused, or the conversation in which or the moment when you suddenly thought: this must be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u613	First of all, there are more things in the coalition agreement that were not included in any of the four electoral programmes. The introduction of one subscription rate in the Wmo was not included in any of the four election programmes. It didn't contain any cuts on the Empire's device; all the election programs wanted to cut short, but we don't. Also, the kick-on-strap afsystematiek in municipalities and provinces was not included in any electoral programme, but we did. So there are more examples of things that we do and that were not in the election programmes. Now back to your question on this particular subject. I wanted to sketch this two weeks ago and actually this evening. A debate has been going on in the Netherlands for a long time. Against the backdrop of the economic crisis, it was impossible to act on that, because it simply cost too much money. I couldn't. At the moment, however, there is some financial space to take sensible measures for the investment climate. Quite apart from the continuity, since 2005, from the discussion why you should get rid of that tax, there are two relevant current developments that have been pressing in particular over the past 12 months. These are, for example, the takeover attempts of large international companies, of which we are quite rightly all 'ho'! said. How do you want to prevent you from standing at the gate and saying that you can't? How do you prevent it from coming to this? That took us to that table to have a conversation with each other about the investment climate. What's it gonna take? What are we gonna do with the greening measures, how are you gonna give them back? You're giving that one-on-one back to the companies? How do we do that? In the Vpb? That might help, but you're also weighing up the burden, on balance, by 100 million. What do we do for small and medium-sized enterprises? Mr Buma said something about this: a whole package of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. What about the whole issue of these large, internationally operating companies, especially against the background of current developments such as low interest rates? It is also becoming increasingly apparent that large pots of money are being collected by money providers to make very large companies vulnerable to takeover. This is really a development over the past year. Is that what we want? How do we prevent that? We've talked about that for a long time, in a number of rounds. Just talking to each other: how do we do this? This is also in the light of the fact that we know that this debate on the Vpb, on burdens in the area of administrative burdens, and also on corporate taxation has been going on for a long time. In the end, we have chosen the package that lies ahead, which we believe is the best answer to this threat. It's not just a shot in the air. No, of course it's based on what I mentioned. It's a discussion that's been going on for a long time. So, apart from the economists who find it all, this discussion has of course been going on since 2005.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u614	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u615	All the factors mentioned already played at the time of drafting the electoral programme. Oh, yes, I do. All the Prime Minister's arguments are aimed at preventing a threat. This threat has not been expressed by the companies and has not been expressed by the organisations. It's an imaginary threat that this drug isn't gonna help. Because despite all the economists he has found in the meantime: there may be a limited effect on the stock exchange price, but there is no clear effect on the prevention of takeovers. Quite frankly, I find it extremely sad to note that with all the sincere love that the Prime Minister feels for the big companies, and which I can largely sympathize with because they do fantastic things despite our fiscal climate, he has no convincing reasoning as to why this should be done, has no convincing reasoning as to why it should be now and certainly has no convincing reasoning as to why this should be done more than other things, which benefit all Dutch people. It's an extraordinary pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u616	I note that I have not yet fully convinced Mr Asscher of the blessings of this proposal. I insist that we have been seeing in the Netherlands for a long time that the dividend tax is distorting the investment environment for three reasons. I mentioned the effect on the capital markets, but it has also been said before how highly internationally working Dutch companies depend on those capital markets. I can also mention the enormous administrative burden it entails, plus the vulnerabilities in the context of the European debate, because, of course, it is becoming increasingly vulnerable at the heart of the matter in the context of the free movement of capital. At the core, it has to do with: how do you keep big companies here? Mr Asscher then says: but there is nothing new. I really want to refute that, because that's just not true. The issues surrounding Akzo and Unilever, the takeovers later, the situation that the previous cabinet has been dealing with, the takeover of PostNL; all of these were in the period between December last year and March/April this year. We've been through all these things back then. We also discussed it in Chamber debates and said: how can we ultimately improve protection structures? We have said: yes, we have to look at protection structures and we also have to look at the tax mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u617	It is almost ridiculous to hear that the capital markets would not function because of the dividend tax, but well. There are two questions the Prime Minister has not answered. At the end of his speech, at the end of his speech, the first was that we wanted to take fiscal measures to attract companies from England. In fact, he says: we must take tax measures here in favour of these large companies, better than our neighbouring countries, because we hope that they will come to the Netherlands. In fact, he says: we must start a tax war here and start a race to the bottom. We have already asked several times where the border is. What if other countries also abolish the dividend tax? Are we going to take new tax measures to get these companies to the Netherlands? When and where is that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u618	That's a fair question. Moreover, in the introductory remarks there are a few assumptions that I have to refute very briefly, because they are a little too short. Yes, Brexit plays a major role, of course, because it makes companies vulnerable to leaving, but also offers an opportunity for companies who may want to settle here. We can be open about that. We're also merchants here with each other. We need to make sure that the Netherlands comes out strong. Brexit will have consequences for our economy anyway. We try to minimise these consequences as much as possible. Apart from Mr Wilders, no one invented Brexit, so that is not a matter we are so excited about. You're a little short on the bend. Then the race to the bottom. I already outlined that corporation tax goes to 21%. This brings us to the Scandinavian level and is below the level of a number of large economies that are close to us and with which we compete. In the end, where is the limit to what you can do? This has to do with the fact that we will have to have a mix here in the Netherlands. That is a political decision, a choice of scarcity that we make here between justified spending in the sphere of education, safety, health care and social protection versus a sensible tax mix. Of course, that sets limits to how far you can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u619	Sorry, Chairman. It may be you, it may be me, no idea, but it's far from an answer. Let me just say that the second question has not been answered either. The Netherlands is really starting a tax war in Europe. We are the first to begin with a substantial reduction in taxation and the abolition of dividend taxation. That means you'll force the others to do the same. So over the next few years, we will be covering the whole of Europe, with the Netherlands at the forefront, the big business. Everyone knows that this is at the expense of society. This is at the expense of care and investment in education. That is the observation that has just been confirmed. You just asked me which questions weren't answered. The second question is similar to Mrs Thieme's. The fact that dividends are not taxed means that short-term investors come to the Netherlands. They have an interest in ensuring that the shareholder value is high. And how are they gonna do that? That is by pleading for lower wages and by rejecting the parts of the company where no major profit is made. We saw that at Organon and we see that at Unox. You can see that in a lot of areas. So one of the big risks of this decision is that we attract the wrong short-term investors to the Netherlands, that we actually spawn even more grasshopper shareholders and then say: you also get a gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u620	I see that a bit differently. First of all, about reducing the burden. The reduction in corporate tax is going around, against an increase in all kinds of greening measures. What we have done in the coalition negotiations is, on the one hand, to see how you can deal with the enormous issues of climate, environment and energy transition. Businesses will also have to play a major role in this. This is also a further greening of the whole approach to the tax system: the polluter pays. At the same time, the question is how to return that to companies. That is by ensuring that it remains attractive to undertake here. However, it is not the case that the reduction in corporate tax is paid out of education, health care or other matters. No, he's paying himself. It's a basic broadening that pays itself back. I also think it is very short of what Mr Roemer says about the type of capital that will be attracted by this. I have just tried to demonstrate, also in answer to question 25, that the experts believe that it is also likely that in this case you will attract companies that have some longer-term investment prospects, investors that do it for the longer term, because they also have a direct interest in a stable dividend policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u621	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u622	The Prime Minister just doesn't go into it at all. If you stop paying taxes, the shareholder value goes up. At the moment it is up, it will attract certain investors to take over companies here: companies that have an interest in it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u623	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u624	...and those are the grasshopper shareholders. They have an interest in it and then argue for low wages and ensure that parts of the company are sold. It attracts the wrong shareholders. We're not just saying that. I read that in several reports that talk about this. And the Prime Minister simply pushes that aside, does not give Mrs Thieme an answer and does not give me an answer. He just denies it and continues with a completely different answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u625	No. Here Mr Roemer really lost his way in a dark forest. That's just not right. Because what you do by abolishing the dividend tax is to ensure that the shareholder value actually goes up so that companies become less vulnerable to takeovers. What's the point? We want to keep these headquarters in the Netherlands. That is employment, twice two-and-a-half times, the whole infrastructure around it and the effects on research and development, but also the decision-making on where these functions take place. That's why we want it. How do you prevent you from actually being at the gate of a company from demonstring because it came in Indian or other hands? You'll avoid that by moving the beacons in time. That is what we are doing with this measure, in a mix of protection measures. We have discussed this before in the Chamber, also in connection with the takeover of Akzo and Unilever. This is also the subject of the coalition agreement. You should. But you can't just go through with that. You're gonna have to look at your whole tax mix at the same time. So here's the exact opposite. It is precisely by doing this that you make companies less dependent or let them be less sensitive to these kinds of foreign acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u626	I believe that Mr Rutte himself would qualify what he is doing here as a moving target. A week or two ago, it started with: no, no, there may not be an economist who can prove that this works, but large companies have indicated to me that they leave differently. Then those media companies deny that they have threatened to leave if the dividend tax would not be abolished. In recent times, a line of argument has been built in which an economic reasoning is made as to why it would be wise to abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u627	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u628	The whole assumption is that this goes right back to the people who invest in the shares, the shareholders. SOMO has conducted an investigation into this. He says one billion out of that 1.4 billion goes to foreign tax authorities. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to ask the CPB the same question, to see who will benefit from this abolition of the dividend tax. To what extent will shareholders benefit from it and to what extent will foreign tax authorities benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u629	That question has a very limited relevance if you look at why we're doing this. I shall come back to Mr Klaver's introductory remarks, which contain so many innuendos, that I must refute some of them, but let me first of all raise the question. I have already argued in detail that Menno Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance, demonstrated in his letter to the House of Representatives yesterday that this type of conclusion is very diverse and that it is difficult to indicate. He didn't know the SOMO report at the time, but he had answered such a question. I also indicated why we're doing this. Not so much because we like the fact that in some cases there is a tax advantage abroad. No, because it is important to make it attractive for companies to stay in the Netherlands and to remove this disruptive tax from the overall tax mix. Then back to Mr Klaver's introductory remarks. There were some insinuations in there that I'm gonna leave for a while. What I said two weeks ago is consistent with now. It's a disruptive tax. That's what companies point out to us. There are economists who point this out to us. Then I was asked if I could name all those economists. No, I didn't have all those names ready. Mr Klaver is right about that. I wouldn't have gotten that all straightened out. But I always try to serve Mr. Klaver as well as I can. That is why I found it useful to outline again which economists think something about this. I also notice that Mr Klaver no longer says 'there is no one to support it', because there is now quite an impressive list of economists who support it. I can't hear him about that anymore. Now the criticism is that I have a list. At first the criticism was: the list does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u630	First of all, I have indicated that it is a very shady list and that every tax is disruptive, so there is always an economist who thinks that the dividend tax is also disruptive. This is anything but convincing. I have here the letter from Secretary of State Snel. There is a constant reference to this. It indicates how difficult it is to indicate where what strikes. That's interesting. So the Ministry of Finance, which has all the information on taxes, can't do it, but SOMO can. That is why I am asking this Prime Minister whether he is prepared to put the question to the Central Planning Bureau at least. I'd like to know how it goes down. Does it knock down on companies, or does it knock down on foreign tax authorities? That is indeed important for all the assumptions made by Mr Rutte here. So the specific question is: is he willing to submit this to the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u631	First, it is not relevant to the assumptions, because it is not the most important effect. The main effect we aim to achieve is that it remains attractive for foreign companies to have their headquarters here and to come here. That's the main reason to do it. Mr Klaver then argued that part of this tax would also lead to income abroad. He is, of course, absolutely right. We know that, too. That's why we're not doing it. It's not like we're doing it because we like that part of that income falls abroad. No, that's a disadvantage of that measure. You do it because it is ultimately necessary to take this stone in the shoe for large international companies to continue to undertake in the Netherlands, with the effects that it has for the stock exchange in Amsterdam, for the international position of our companies, out of that shoe. I would remind you once again of the letter from Secretary of State Menno Snel. I think it's persuasive. So no, I'm not willing to honor the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u632	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u633	Mr. Chairman. This is a question of additional information, to clarify the situation, and the Prime Minister is now literally saying: no, of course it is not nice when it goes to foreign tax authorities. SOMO shows today that two thirds of the world are two thirds! Of this 1.4 billion, which is over one billion, goes to foreign tax authorities. So it still has a net effect of EUR 300 to 400 million. I think that's pretty strong, to be perfectly honest. If I ask whether SOMO is right or not, if we can have that refuted, the answer is no. I'm not speaking to a prime minister here. I am talking to a believer who believes in this abolition of dividend taxation so much that no argument matters anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u634	No, because the reason to abolish the dividend tax is not that you're happy that some of the proceeds fall abroad. We know it's gonna fall over there. You're doing it for another reason. As I said just now in response to Mr Roemer in relation to the SOMO research, this is ultimately a partial picture. That dividend tax is now a threshold. In the end, when you see the figures, you don't know which long-term investors would be willing to invest in Dutch shares, with the result that those shares will indeed become more attractive. This makes these companies less sensitive to takeovers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u635	I just asked in an interrupting debate a response to the Chetty and Saez report on the fact that, if you lower the dividend tax, dividends will go up considerably. That's what research shows. Then the Prime Minister said: yes, but that investigation Mrs Thieme pointed out is an investigation from America; that does not apply to the Netherlands. Bas Jacobs wrote this week in a paper that many studies show that if you abolish or significantly reduce the dividend tax, dividends will increase significantly, with all the negative consequences for the hard-working Dutchman, which the Prime Minister seems to stand up for. I really want an answer from the Prime Minister to the question of why he doesn't take the studies seriously, which say that if you abolish dividends taxes, the shareholders will be pushed further and that this will be at the expense of the people on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u636	The reason why we want to abolish the dividend tax is not that we are happy that some of the proceeds fall abroad or that you may or may not be at risk of the dividend payment rising. That is ultimately a business decision. However, I would point out that the large Dutch companies which pay the bulk of the Dutch dividend tax belong to the share capital category and have a very solid dividend policy. So that seems to me to be an unjustified accusation, but you never know for sure. We're doing it for another reason. We are doing it to ensure that this type of company can continue to undertake here, that this stone is removed from the tax boot and that other companies from abroad could come to the Netherlands, because we, as a small, open economy, are more than average, yes, very dependent on internationally operating companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u637	I can therefore conclude that the Prime Minister would like to take the risk that the multinationals we have here in the Netherlands will simply become ATMs for shareholders, also abroad, which will cost jobs. "But let's hope it doesn't happen, because we're just trying to take a defensive measure to avoid something that might happen in the future." Is the summary of the Prime Minister's story: "Pin machines for shareholders; well, we're just taking that risk. We hope multinationals have the decency not to let that happen."?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u638	No, I want to keep Mrs Thieme from getting mad at a company soon enough to decide to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u639	Mr. Van Rooijen, you've been there three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u640	Yes, so are the colleagues, Mr. Chairman. I can count, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u641	No, along with Mr Klaver, you have committed most of the interruptions. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u642	Yeah, I'm asking one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u643	You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u644	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The question is this: is the Prime Minister prepared to send us a note through Finance on why the dividend tax in his eyes or in the eyes of the Ministry of Finance is a distorting tax in the capital market? Following on, the Ministry of Finance, you, the Minister of Finance, are also prepared to ask the European Commission whether and how the dividend tax in the European Union may be a distorting factor...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u645	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u646	... given that most other countries have twice as high a dividend tax as we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u647	For two reasons, I am not prepared to do so. First of all, I refer to the many correspondence between the Chamber and the Cabinet and the many debates that have been discussed here. Secondly, of course, we are going to talk about this when we deal with the draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u648	Mr. Asscher, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u649	We're going to a bill. That's gotta be there early next year. In my opinion, it is good to have an impact assessment made in this type of measure. Given the firmness of the assumption, I would very much appreciate it now. Can we assume that this will be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u650	I will come back to that in the second term, because now I am really on the subject of the Secretary of State for Finance. I would like to be briefed by the Treasury on what is normally customary. So I'll answer that question in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u651	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver. Speaking time shall be one minute and twenty seconds, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fungality. Total uncertainty as to how you come to a decision to spend 1.4 billion. As I said, this Prime Minister is a moving target. Companies would have threatened to leave, but now it doesn't seem to be. There's an economic defense line being rigged anyway. All extremely, extremely, extremely thin. I think this coalition had the idea: if we debate together today, maybe we can put the spirit back in the bottle and get the debate ready. But this debate is not ready. I feel like I didn't debate with a politician today, but with a believer. Someone who believes so sacredly, with all his fibers and everything in him, that the dividend tax is good and is going to make the Netherlands better, that no argument matters anymore. I asked for additional information from the CPB, but that's not necessary because that doesn't matter. Mr. Chairman. I find it shocking, to be honest. This affects people's confidence in politics. 1.4 billion is given to large companies, foreign shareholders and foreign tax administrations, while people in this country still have trouble getting around and going to the doctor. They have not seen their income improve for years, while the pressure on their work, for example in the classes, is increasing. Then I don't understand why the cabinet chooses to transfer 1.4 billion abroad. That is not the end of this debate as far as I am concerned. There's gonna be another hearing. I also announce that the opposition still has a lot of questions that we will ask in writing. As far as I am concerned, after the hearing and after all the questions we have asked, there will simply be a third deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u653	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is rather disconcerting that there is no substantive argument to transfer 1,400 million to foreign tax administrations and investors. And that without any note, without any report and without any justification. And if there's anything, we're not gonna get it. According to this Prime Minister, we've lost our way in a dark forest; that's what he just said. Well, the Netherlands lost 1,400 million in the forest a year. No evidence and no reports, a disinvestment. That melon is far from been swallowed, not even in parts, so I say to Mr Segers. Vague assumptions, especially based on the lower abdomen. The Prime Minister gives no guarantee that these 1,400 million a year will prevent companies from being bought up afterwards. In short, it is a mega gift for foreign shareholders and especially for foreign tax authorities. I therefore very much agree with Mr Klaver. This debate is just beginning. There's gonna be a hearing. The debate will then continue as far as we are concerned. As far as Mr Wilders is concerned, your motion is premature. We're gonna do that hearing, and we're gonna finish the debate. But if this does not improve, I do not rule out the fact that my group will say at some point: perhaps we should support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u655	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u656	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an amazing debate. The opposition has come up with all kinds of evidence and studies showing that this abolition of the dividend tax is not going to increase employment. It is not going to ensure that companies stay here in the Netherlands and it is certainly not going to ensure more stability in the Netherlands when it comes to trust in politics. In fact, the distrust in politics will only increase if we get a cabinet that, on the basis of assumptions, even the word "belief" is used here. We find that irresponsible. We have a tendency to think: we should support this motion of censure now, because we cannot in fact carry on with such a cabinet. But, Mr President, this debate has not yet ended. We need more information. We must be clear about what has gone wrong here, both during the formation and now in the provision of information to the Chamber. That is why we are very much looking forward to the hearing and the other debates, because it really cannot be that we are going to have multinationals here in the Netherlands that are mainly turning into ATMs for shareholders and tax services abroad, and that no human being, no Dutchman, will benefit from this, no working person. After all, we have to opt for the Netherlands and the workers rather than foreign shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u657	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u658	Mr. Chairman. Following on from colleagues and in the opinion of 50PLUS, the debate must even begin. I have not received any information that would allow me to assess whether the proposal has been substantiated. I have not received any answers to the questions we have asked. I repeat: we want a note from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance on the pros and cons of abolishing the dividend tax. We want an answer to our question about the distribution of the 1.4 billion between the Treasury and the investor. We want to know why the dividend tax is distorting in the Netherlands and in the European capital market. We want to know why the Amsterdam Stock Exchange is seriously affected and disadvantaged if this decision is not taken. Finally, an informative and modest question: would you like to inform us as soon as possible about the possible developments in America, which are indeed important? What is the situation at the moment? And to what extent will that affect your final position and our position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u659	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u660	Madam President, with no pen to describe what has happened here. The cabinet is persevering: 1.5 billion euros from the Dutch taxpayer were thrown over the beam. Money paid by the hardworking Dutchman, paid by the AOW'er, paid by that sick Dutchman, paid by the self-employed person. And for whom? For all those VVDs with fat, fat jobs at all those big companies, Shell, Akzo, Unilever, for Rutte's friends and associates, for all those companies, while there's not an inch of evidence that it's gonna get one job. What is certain is that people in the Netherlands do not notice at all that the economy is improving. A lot of people read that in the paper and don't get it at all. They still see that their rents are sky high, that sometimes they can't even pay their own risk.They are 800,000 people and that VAT is higher when they can barely buy their groceries now. I repeat what I said in my first term: choose our own people and stop bashing that foreign shareholder and those friends of that VVD mafia gang. Mr. Chairman. Misery. I have announced a motion of censure, and I will now submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is maintaining the abolition of the dividend tax for foreign investors;]] [[rejects the conduct of the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u661	Mr President, thank you. I'd like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for his answers. The colleagues before me have already said it: unspeakable, bewildering, with no pen to describe and so on. I would like to summarize it as follows: it is gambling, believing and magic; we are taking a gamble with 1.4 billion taxpayers' money; we believe it is going to work and we are juggling numbers and arguments for as long as we can until the whole of the Netherlands sees that this is a very bad plan. This is completely inadequate for the DENK Group, and we too have just begun the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u662	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u663	Mr. Chairman. I started my input with the lip service that is done to ordinary people in the coalition agreement. I have been disturbed by the dedain and the arrogance with which both the Prime Minister and some group chairmen of the coalition have defended the measure. It seems as if people are unaware that people outside this room are angry about it. We are talking here about 'taking a tax stone out of the shoes' of the big companies. There are a lot of Dutch people with a much more painful stone in their shoes! By pushing through this measure in this way, the cabinet is affecting its own moral authority to take difficult measures, which are always necessary. There are cuts in the number of disabled people in the labour market. There's a cut in renters. There's no money for the teachers. But they come here in a really shocking way, as far as I am concerned, with a reasoning that is clever in their verbal acrobatics, but flimsy. And I know when they're bluffing around here. Yeah, I recognize that! You recognize it, too. We've seen it. It's shiny. You claim that this is a necessary measure. There's no evidence that this will help. It's an expensive gamble. It's an unproven drug. And it's about so much money that it's totally irresponsible. It really shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u664	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u665	Madam President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'll draw the following conclusions. In itself, it is likely that the abolition of the dividend tax will improve the business environment. A good locational environment is important for jobs in large companies and also has an impact on smaller Dutch companies. What exactly will be the effect of abolishing the dividend tax is untenable. That's still an assessment. I would add that I do not think that it is hard to prove this with new notes or payments. As far as I am concerned, dividend tax is not an article of faith either, but it is not a mathematics either. It is ultimately a matter of wisdom to assess what is and will not be necessary and what will work. The weighting is: is this measure effective and effective, and are there cheaper alternatives? For us, does this measure fit in with the broader picture of burden relief for entrepreneurs and families? At least the debate has helped to clarify that further. We will consider it carefully and draw our conclusions within the framework of the legislative proposal. For this moment we are at least a step further on the path. We would not mind skipping another week with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u666	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u667	We believe that the argument is flawed. Around €200 per year per household is written off here, withdrawn from the Dutch economy and transferred to mostly foreign investors and foreign governments. The argument that it greatly benefits our investment climate is not convincing in our opinion. There are many other measures that you could take to increase attractiveness for foreign investors and other companies. That is why we will continue to do what we can to prevent this, including at the hearing and in other cases that are to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u668	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u669	Mr. Chairman. I owed another response to the Labour Party about the impact assessment. Well, that's just been figured out for a while. We only do this when we propose European directives. It will then identify the effects for the different Member States. In the explanatory statement, however, we are going to look again at the reasons why, at the recitals. We are also considering the effects on administrative burdens, implementation costs for the Tax Administration and the European dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u670	Send a bailout decision to the Chamber, and the VVD asks for an impact assessment. It really does not only happen in the case of European legislation. In this case, given the firmness with which the measure is defended, it seems likely to be helpful for the cabinet to make such an impact assessment. I think that is also justified in the case of a spending of 1.4 billion. I would like to make the compelling request to the cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u671	That's really different from what we normally do. So I maintain the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u672	I realize it's different, but that's why I'm making a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u673	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u674	Because I appreciate it, in the treatment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u675	I'm sticking to my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u676	The reasoning that it deviates from the usual is insufficient. There must be an argument why you're not prepared to do this. I didn't hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u677	Because the legislative proposal will address in detail the relevant elements: the why, the considerations and the effects it has on burdens, administrative, implementation by the Tax Administration and the European dimension. I'm repeating myself now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u678	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u679	But it's up to the Chamber to decide what's relevant, isn't it? I find it so strange that when information is requested here, what has happened here very often today, the Prime Minister says: I do not think this is relevant and I think this is relevant. It is not a very big question and you do not need to mention economists to make an impact assessment of this measure. If it turns out that the agencies that do that normally can't do it, I'll accept it. This is a question you should actually answer yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u680	This never happens with tax proposals, so I maintain the answer. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen has asked a number of questions which have already been answered in the first period. On his point on the United States, I say that this will not determine the trade-offs. The outcome of the debate in the United States is a point where he can ask Mr Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance, further if there are any relevant developments. However, these will not affect our position on this part of the coalition agreement. I reject Mr Wilders' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u681	That's up to the Chamber, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u682	I see there's a need for a short suspension of five minutes. If it's all right, then we'll vote on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u683	I would like a roll-call vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-6.u684	Then that's what we're gonna do.
