ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Leaving the mandatory own risk for healthcare insurance for the year 2018 (34792). I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The question of how one can manage the costs of health care in a prosperous country such as the Netherlands and other countries plays in many countries. Everywhere, the optimal mix of own contributions, insurance, contributions from the treasury and control of access to and the extent of the supply of care is sought. That's an extremely complex issue, which you don't solve in the afternoon. Discussion of these issues requires careful preparation, proper consideration of all the effects of possible measures and a thorough debate. In the Netherlands too, there has been a lot of talk about this issue in recent years. It played a role in election time, it is at the formation table and it will certainly be an important point of discussion for the new cabinet. And there will undoubtedly still be a lot of discussion in Parliament. But, Mr President, that debate is not on the agenda for my group. And we also do not want to burden the formation process with statements in this area. What lies ahead of us today is a bill that in fact calls for the situation of 2017. A broad majority in the House of Representatives asked us to deal with this emergency law today. You have rightly accepted this proposal, Mr President, and that is why we are discussing it now. Mr. Chairman. My group sees this proposal mainly as an initiative to freeze the situation in terms of its own risk for a year, pending the results of the formation. It is a time-out to make room for the new cabinet to have the in-depth debate that has just been mentioned, perhaps in this house, but in the first place, of course, in the House of Representatives. In order to clarify our own risk in accordance with the Health Insurance Act for the legal date of 1 October, the decision to make that space for that debate must fall today. Mr. Chairman. In this perspective, the CDA Group is assessing the proposed legislative proposal. If we look at the classical assessment criteria of this Chamber, namely feasibility, persistence and efficiency/effectiveness, then the assessment of those criteria is positive. The proposal is good to implement and maintain and allows for a more thorough debate, without increasing its own risk. We're fine with the latter. On the basis of these considerations, the CDA Group can accept the proposal and is likely to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Flierman. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group also supports the urgent legislative proposal to reduce the own risk in healthcare in 2018 from the €400 target, as laid down in the Millions Note of the Demissionary Cabinet, to €385. We agree with the motion adopted broadly in the House of Representatives last week (29689, No. 866) by Mr Keijzer and others If the bill is adopted in this house today, it will give just the time needed to implement the proposal in practice. The health insurance companies must publish their nominal premiums before 12 November. These premiums relate to their own risk. My group is pleased that, according to the letter from informant Zalm last Friday, the healthcare allowance remains unchanged. That link to the care premium remains intact. My group is also pleased to note that this afternoon, with such great support, the bill reached the final stage in the House of Representatives. With this urgent procedure, we are sending a signal to society, in particular to those who need to make an intensive appeal to care. For the rest, we await the coalition agreement. We will then undoubtedly come to an extensive discussion on wider care and everything related to it. Right now, I don't need grand reflections. I think it's good to accept the reduction of one's own risk. That fits in well with my party's vision of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Ester. Oh, Mr. Ganzevoort has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u6	It's a small question. Mr Ester is talking about reducing the risk. I think it's not raising one's own risk. That's one thing. The small signal that he says he is sending out and that he is supporting is, if I understand correctly, that the wish of the Christian Union itself, namely to reduce its own risk, is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u7	No, that has nothing to do with it. It has to do with the fact that it is a signal to society to maintain solidarity between the sick and the sent. That is one aspect which we attach great importance to. That is also evident from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u8	For the sake of clarification, what you were talking about is not a reduction but a non-increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u9	That's a bit of a semantic issue. The outgoing cabinet had an increase to €400 and we go to €385. Whatever mathematics you use, in every mathematics, that's a reduction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Health, according to the Dutch, is very important, yes even the most important thing for their happiness. This was demonstrated by the research on social cohesion and well-being, published by the CBS in 2015. Of the people who qualify their health as very good, 95% say they are very happy. Of those who think their health is bad to very bad, that is only 54%. We're getting older. That's a good thing. More and more medical treatments are possible. That too is positive. In view of this, rising healthcare costs reflect rising health benefits. In a way, therefore, we should be pleased with the rising cost of care. Care, like most other products and services, does not come when manna falls from the sky, although some, including in politics, sometimes give the impression that it does. In other respects, too, concerns differ from other products and services or are suggested, for example by some of the participants in the list leaders' election debate last March. I would like to quote with agreement the column that Frank Kalshoven wrote about in the Volkskrant of 4 March 2017: "People do not choose to become ill. People don't choose to get a flat tire. People don't go to the doctor for fun. People don't go to the bike maker for fun. It's about their health. It is about their mobility." For example, citizens are told that care should be free, just because being sick is not fun, and that the co-paying, through the sickness premium and the own risk, to the cost of that valuable product care is a fine on being sick. That happened yesterday in the Lower House. So care isn't free. And paying for care is not a fine on being sick, but a price on something we like to be insured and appreciate when we need it. Who will pay the increase in healthcare costs in 2018? The informant presented a proposal on behalf of the negotiators of the forming parties: all contributors, healthy and ill. That's about 13 million. By comparison, the number of people who fully address the mandatory own risk is 5.5 million, not half. We are debating and voting here tonight on a bill that will ensure that the mandatory own risk does not rise in 2018 and thus remains €385, and that increases in costs will have to be paid out of a higher premium. It is a matter of urgency, because the good management of insurers requires them to know where they stand. It is important for insured persons to know in good time what the premiums will be in 2018. As I said, there are more than twice as many people who pay premiums as people who fully address their own risks. When financing the rising costs in 2018 through premium increases, the burden will thus be distributed among many more people in that year. Moreover, funding through a higher premium rather than a higher compulsory own risk means that sent out more communicate the costs for chronically ill. In my group's view, when it comes to the choice that is now being made, namely that between increasing the own risk and raising the premium next year, the second is preferable from the point of view of solidarity between healthy and ill, especially chronic or severely ill. My group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Thank you," said Pa Pinkelman. "And how did it go with the election?" "Beautiful," the crowd replied. "All parties have promised prosperity." "Beautiful," said Pa Pinkelman. "Then it'll be all right." "A suit of my heart," said Aunt Pollewop. "I've been so scared along the way that they would promise poverty. Did no party really say that it was for misery and unemployment?" "Not one," replied the editor-in-chief of the Volkskrant, rushing forward. "We crawled through the eye of the needle." I don't know exactly why, but this ironic piece of Godfried Bomans in "Pa Pinkelman in politics" came to mind when I thought about handling this bill. For let us be honest: very impressive has not been parliamentary treatment so far. It's about rearranging some dimes and quarters, from cardigans to pockets and vice versa. An exceptional emergency procedure will then be drawn out of the drawer, which will give the Chambers the necessary restrictions. Should such a procedure not be retained for real emergencies? What precedent does this have and does the complex care dossier lend itself to such ad hoc measures? Nobody wants to be a game breaker. For chronically ill and disabled people, among others, this bill offers a minor windfall. The SGP supports that little gesture. There is, of course, much more to be said about the procedure followed. Previous speakers have touched on this and I am sure that speakers after me will also comment on it. What strikes me, above all, is that such a minor intervention in the care system merely freezes one's own risk so quickly runs into the papers. That should keep any serious fraction on the retina. It is a major task and responsibility for each party to keep the expanding healthcare expenditure somewhat manageable. The Council of State rightly has nothing to do with this. Free beer is not provided in the care. This observation makes us all the more curious as to what the forthcoming coalition will be committed to keeping good care available and affordable for the longer term. Of course, considerations and choices that are then made are very politically loaded. The same applies to the criticisms that will undoubtedly be voiced by future plans. That is all very legitimate, but I would like to express the wish that we should stay away from the cheap rhetoric that Bomans has so cutely described. If not, we will do so at our own risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the content. Now that research is increasingly showing that people who need care do not go to the medical specialist or the hospital because of their own risk, we welcome efforts to reduce the level of their own risk. In order to ensure that people who are vulnerable or sick do not avoid care, my group believes that these should be proposals in which the strongest should bear the heavy burden. We see the bill we are discussing today as a recognition that the mandatory own risk is too high. Unfortunately, this is a one-off decoupling of the own risk of projected rising healthcare expenditure. In the House of Representatives, my party colleague Nijboer has strongly advocated a structural separation of the own risk and healthcare expenses. The advantage of this is that the decision on the level of own risk per year can be considered. Unfortunately, this amendment did not succeed, nor did the other two amendments and the motion tabled by my party colleague Nijboer in the House of Representatives. That disappoints us. At the same time, the proposed legislative proposal is designed to ensure that the net impact on the most vulnerable in our society gives an advantage of only €8 per year. Of course, every euro is one for everyone who is short of cash. From the explanatory statement we understand that the forming parties via the Keijzer and Others motion. to ensure that people do not abandon necessary care. That is why we are curious about the impact of the reduction of €8 on the costs of care and on the use of care. Is that what you've been looking for? If so, what picture does this show? If not, is the Minister prepared to investigate whether the legislative proposal has the intended effect, namely to prevent the avoidance of necessary care? Then I have a substantive question about the current publicity about the legislative proposal and how health insurers can and can handle it. Mr Oomen announced that DSW would reduce both the premium and the compulsory own risk. Our question to the Minister is whether an individual insurer may raise a lower own risk than the mandatory own risk laid down by law. If so, is it not decided in two places on the reduction of costs in health care? Here in The Hague, by the Staten-General and also by individual health insurance companies? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Mr Oomen also stated that the calculation premium had been set far too high. What is the Minister's response to this signal and how does the Minister view it in the light of the debate we are having today on the level of own risk and the effect on the premium? That brings me to another point about the bill. We read that the proposal is expected to lead to an increase in healthcare costs of almost EUR 40 million. My party colleague Nijboer asked a number of questions about this in yesterday's Dutch Parliamentary debate. It seems that this is considered a fact by the parties forming. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet has made a successful effort over the past five years to control the growth of healthcare costs. There has been hard work, especially by the minister we have here in the Chamber, along with the care field. The Dutch population has also experienced the effects of this. These efforts have ensured that our welfare state remains sustainable and accessible to all, including future generations. By controlling healthcare costs, other important issues such as social housing, education and roads remain within the state budget. This legislative proposal raises the question of how sustainable the policies that the forming parties will draw up will be. It makes us very curious about the context in which this bill will end up in the forthcoming government agreement. We really hope that what the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has achieved over the past few years will not be thrown out of hand. We are curious to see how the Minister views this. Let me turn to the procedure. In our view, it is unnecessary and clumsy and very limited in the way we can do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u16	Mrs Nooren's phrase that she hopes that the work of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet will not be thrown out of the way, nevertheless prompts me to ask her a question. I have just briefly looked up how the personal risk in the care sector has developed under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Before joining that cabinet it was €220 per year. It is now €385 per year. How does the PvdA view that result?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u17	You can see that we have an increasingly ageing population and an increasing demand for care. The cabinet has achieved a flattening of the growth of care costs. This is a good thing for me to explain. It is sometimes said that we have reduced spending and that less money is spent on healthcare. That is not the case, but growth has come closer to demographic development. If the cabinet had not intervened, the increase in healthcare costs would have been much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u18	The question is whether, in Mrs Nooren's view, the increase in the own risk incurred under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has contributed to this control of costs. If so, does it intend to reverse the effect of that measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u19	I would remind you of the latest investigations into an increasing risk of our own. You can enter your own risk for two reasons: for a co-payment and for a braking effect. The PvdA believes that something should be done about its own risk because in the latest studies you see that the higher own risk has a particular effect on the behavior of people who are vulnerable and have low social status. It leads to excess demand in them. It concerns 800,000 people who have difficulty paying their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u20	Finally, Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u21	I note, however, that Mrs Nooren and her group are currently disassociating themselves from the policy of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u22	When you read our election program, I think it's very clear. We have said that we do not think that the risk of our own is a good instrument for financing healthcare costs anymore, and that our preference is to take care of a number of things through taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u23	Actually, I'd like to ask Mr. Flierman a question. Mr. Flierman, I hear you responding...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u24	That's a little complicated. Perhaps it would be best if you did that in the second term when Mr. Flierman is speaking, yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u25	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u27	I was still stuck with the procedure. It is unnecessary and clumsy in our view and limits us very much in the way we can do our work, but colleagues in the House of Representatives and I am sure a number of colleagues have said enough about it today. I have nothing to add to that. Once, but never again, I hope. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. The discussion of this proposal, the release of the indexing for 2018 of the mandatory own risk linked to the cost of care, is quite special. For the first time in years we have actually been talking about the real change in the level of our inhabitants' own risk. We are not just talking about it; we are deciding on it today. This means that the own risk remains at the level of 2017. For years, this outgoing government has not been able to discuss the level of its own risk, let alone influence it. It is now! However, what we are deciding today is very modest. An increase in the own risk of €15 for the coming year is avoided, while the premium of our basic insurance will increase by €9. In short, what does this achieve? Mr. Chairman. There is still much to be said about the way in which this bill has been drafted. We have a outgoing cabinet, which presents a poor budget with four political groups in the background who are in the process of forming a government agreement and a government and who are asking the outgoing cabinet to make an adjustment to the 2018 budget. All this following a motion by Ms Keijzer of the CDA to initiate a legal emergency construction not to increase the mandatory own risk for 2018 compared to 2017. In doing so, the two chambers of the States General today have to accord this emergency construction, given that otherwise the time is too short to determine the care premiums. Mr President, I can tell you that it took me a while to understand what this really is about. What impression does this leave of our constituents, the health insurance companies, watching this political game? So much political pressure not to allow just an increase in one's own risk to continue! Because we are not even talking about reducing one's own risk. However, after the recent elections, many people are under the assumption that the fine on being ill Mrs Prast mentioned there too, namely the own risk in the health insurance law, goes down. Among other things, the Christian Union and the CDA have included a reduction in their own risk in their election programme and created an expectation. This one-off action does not meet that expectation. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, the people didn't fall on the back of their heads. There have been actions, and not just a little bit. I have to think about our successful signature campaign at the National Health Fund. More than a quarter of a million signatures have been collected, directed against one's own risk in health care, as it appears with effect. Because how can Mrs Keijzer's CDA motion and the letter from the informant combined with this particular political decision-making be explained differently? The continuation of the increase in own risk linked to healthcare expenditure would be a first nail to the coffin of the not even born cabinet. The anger and incomprehension in the country would be great. Apparently, the fear surrounding this subject lies with the four forming groups. The fraction of the SP cannot suppress a modest smile. So action helps! Mr. Chairman. So we are talking here about keeping the mandatory own risk for care equal. We decide on a one-off decoupling of indexation and as a result on an expected premium increase of €9. From 2018 onwards, the own risk of an increase in healthcare costs will just rise again, unless the incumbent government decides otherwise. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister. The determination of the premium is the responsibility of health insurers. DSW reported this morning to achieve a reduction in its own risk and the premium for their insured persons in 2018. Apparently, DSW can afford this. According to DSW, this is possible due to a reduction in healthcare costs. According to Mr Oomen van DSW, these costs have been overestimated in the Millions Note. Is the Minister prepared to explain to us what is the financial difference between her budget and DSW's views? We don't necessarily have to today, but we're curious. It would be nice to freeze one's own risk without increasing the premium. DSW seems to be doing this. By the way, we are looking forward to seeing the other health insurance companies. Mr. Chairman. After reading the explanatory memorandum I got associations with a household booklet. Budget, costs, premiums, extra-expenditure coverage, demand for care... Of course, you can only spend a euro once, but the decision we want to make tonight is linked to a substantive consideration, namely to meet care seekers who, due to their rising care costs, avoid care or otherwise get into trouble? For example, the prevention of care avoidance among caregivers is also a form of positive return, which can even be converted into euros. We're not doing that right now. It is time for a new housekeeping booklet, a challenge for the four parties that may form the coalition. Mr President, concluding. The reason for this draft law is the pressure from the public against its own risk, which is encouraging for our group. Similarly, the first step towards eliminating one's own risk has been taken. But this step is minimal. In short, not letting an indexation of the own risk towards an expected increase in the premium is a cigar from its own box. We shall be reluctant to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Don. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. While the four forming parties have been saying for months now that they are doing their utmost to reach agreement, the Netherlands is starting to watch despondently. This is a consequence of the fact that they have decided to exclude logical democratic procedures, which means that the most impossible and bizarre combinations of parties must be tried out. Then we hear the King on Prince's Day, I believe three times, saying that it is important that more people take advantage of the economic prosperity. At the same time, we heard from Minister Schippers that next year our own risk should rise from €385 to €400. Logic and consistent policy has not been the strongest side of the present, for some time now, missionary cabinet. However, this gave rise to so much fuss that perhaps the four formations should say "conspiring" parties looked up from their deliberations for a moment and asked Minister Schippers deliriously to reverse it by means of a legislative amendment. Symbol politics found this by the Minister. From a VVD perspective you can understand that, because what is in VVD eyes €15 on the €385? This means an additional number of people on top of the 800 000 who already have a payment scheme in connection with that own risk. We are talking about a payment scheme for people who simply pay their premium, so people who really cannot pay that own contribution. As you know, today I am replacing my sick colleague Peter van Dijk. I have therefore had to deal with this matter in the short term. The greater and the more the judge was my surprise at the alleged purpose of his own contribution, namely to reduce the cost of care. How would that work, then, according to the advocates of their own contribution? You come to the general practitioner, who is not included, who finds that specialist assistance is necessary. At that moment, as a patient, you have a choice: am I going to take that specialist advice or am I refusing it for financial reasons? In the opinion of the PVV it is an inappropriate choice! The PVV therefore considers that the entire own contribution should be cancelled. Our assessment of the legislative proposal before us can already be derived from this. We are against one's own risk, so mordicus opposes an increase. The proposal to keep it the same this year is far too thin, but it seems to me that it is no longer in this cabinet and with these forming parties. The CDA and the Christian Union have already denied their electoral program with the plush in the prospect. In fact, there is a threat of an increase in premiums. Well, that promises something for the final plans of the new cabinet. For those same forming parties, all of which have their mouths full about load relief, a ten a year already turns out to be too much of a good thing. The proposals that health insurers should not be left with a gap of 150 million in unforeseen costs because premiums should not increase further by increasing the state contribution to insurers and paying this out of the budget surplus should not be made on the other side. What has been money for over the past four years has been to make 125,000 asylum seekers look good. In the eyes of the PVV incomprehensible considerations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Van Strien. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. This bill goes to the parliament with lights and sirens, not because someone in the Netherlands would like to outside politics, not because it is not possible, not because it is common, but as a symptom of the severely weakened relations in the Netherlands coalition country. They make exchange policy between parties with opposing views increasingly necessary. The Rutte II cabinet had no intention of increasing its own risk, the penalty for being sick of our healthcare system, to €400. But the Rutte III cabinet, which is under construction, did not think that it could explain that very well to the electorate, because two of the forming parties had promised the electorate by hand that their own risk in the care would be reduced. So now with steam and boiling water a bill that keeps the middle between a risk that goes down, as promised among others CDA and ChristenUnion, and an increase in the own risk as the outgoing cabinet had in mind. Dear voter, your own risk doesn't go up. That is the poor result that the bellovers have gained from a lower own risk. Dear voter, your own risk does not go down. That is the poor result that the bellovers have gained from a higher risk of their own. If this becomes the way of decision-making for the next cabinet period in a coalition of parties with opposing interests, then we will see many colourless compromises. The argument of parties who wanted to freeze or increase their own risk was: otherwise the care premium will go up and you don't want that, of course. That prediction has now been overtaken by DSW, who is the first to announce his reduced premium today. Apart from that, we must say that this is a discussion that ignores the essence of how we can continue to pay the rising costs of care and the rising need for care. The 80 billion that healthcare costs in the Netherlands, we have to bring together, partly from premium, partly from taxes and partly from our own risk. That has become such an opaque mix with every year the absurd chair dance between the bounty hunters of commercial health insurance companies, that more and more homesick people are going to remember the collective health services we had in the past. Not that everything was ideal back then, but at least we didn't have the absurd annual changeover circus with all the accompanying unrest and costs. At that time, a majority of Dutch politics still thought that privatisation would remove all the disadvantages of the existing system and have only advantages. In the old situation we would have been at home tonight without our own risk and without the uneasy feeling that we are going to be bombarded again in the coming months with campaigns by health insurance companies who want to draw us to another policy. In the total derailed system of health care allowances, more than half of the Dutch families are now receiving such a supplement and one out of five Dutch people are now listed as caregivers and contributions are paid by way of a premium increase of about €70 per year. This increase is less visible to the electorate, because it seems as if it is presented from the health insurers and not politically determined. The flight of politicians from the anger of the electorate is beginning to take the form of a farce. If we are left with another evening in this house, the Animal Party would like to discuss the abolition of its own risk, the joint organisation of care in the Netherlands instead of leaving it to the free market with all the inconveniences of that. If there is something that needs to be improved, it is the way in which our care is now organised: not laps, symptom control, but a solidarity-based provision of care. This is too far-reaching for the framework of this debate, but we may be able to avoid this kind of debate in the future. As far as we're concerned, prevention is better than cure. For the moment, as long as the thawing of market forces in care is not in sight, my group will vote to freeze its own risk. But it doesn't make us warm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, but only after I have started the vote. There is a maiden speech and everyone knows that there will be a maiden speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day and not least because we need to deal with an urgent legislative proposal. Although everyone thought because of the many election programs that their own risk would go down significantly, the cabinet in the making increased their own risk to an amount of €400 per person per year. This caused enormous turmoil in society and rightly so. Surprised by the indignation there was nothing left for the forming parties but to come up with this urgent proposal. However, this bill does not reflect the result of what a majority of political parties promised during the elections. The mandatory own risk was once created in order to control collective healthcare expenditure. It was meant as a threshold not to go too quickly to a specialist. In practice, however, it appears that the unbridled increase in the mandatory own risk has made this threshold so high that a significant group of people refrain from necessary care. In 2008 the own risk was €150, within ten years it more than doubled to €385. The own risk of €385 results in no less than 10% of health care avoiders, and this should and can never be the intention of the healthcare system. Ultimately, care avoidance leads to an increase in healthcare costs. Delayed necessary treatment will often take more time and therefore become more costly. This emergency procedure to amend the law to freeze one's own risk for one year is, in fact, a wash nose. This cigar is presented to the citizen from its own box. It is significant that parties such as the CDA and the Christian Union in their election programmes have a structural reduction in their own risk of up to €100, but that they already welcome a one-off freeze of their own risk. How reliable are you as a politician: before the elections promise everything and then immediately after the elections do the opposite? Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group does not understand why a one-off freeze of its own risk for 2018 is possible, but does not see a structural reduction of its own risk for the coming years. All the more so now that the 2018 Millions note presented shows that there is a surplus of 7.8 billion. Of course it's possible, but it does mean making choices. We have all learned from the newspaper that health insurance company DSW not only reduces its own risk by €10, but also once more the care premium by €6 per year. What about the Minister's repeated announcement that these are communicating vessels? I understood from this that if you lower your own risk then the care premium will automatically go up. Then why is the health insurance company DSW able to break this automatism? Is there not a legal obstacle for insurers to adjust the premium and their own risk downwards? Mr. Chairman. The position of 50PLUS is a clear position: a structural reduction in own risk to €200 and the ultimate goal should be total abolition. This doesn't say 50PLUS alone. A majority of the parties represented in the First and Second Chambers consider that their own risk can and should be reduced. That's what they promised the voters. Then why isn't it happening? The current bill of a one-off freeze of €385 combined with an increasing care premium lies miles away from what has been promised to voters. That's a low point so soon after the election. Mr President, I shall conclude. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is only good and, above all, fair news if the own risk is reduced by a substantial amount and care premiums do not go up any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Please stand still. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You were installed on 28 March 2017 as a member of the Upper House. You followed Martin van Rooijen who left for the Lower House. In this house, you are making "How else can it be in a small fraction of a large number of committees, seven in number? You have, unexpectedly, chosen a special debate for your maiden speech, namely on a bill that will deal with the House of Representatives and the House of First Instance on the same day. This is not customary in our state law and it should certainly remain a high exception. However, in this particular case, the Chamber considered that it had to honour a request from the Minister of the United States invited by the envisaged new government coalition. Hence this debate now and here. The last time that both Chambers voted on the same legislative proposals in one day was on 3 August 1914, when shortly after the outbreak of the First World War nine emergency laws were passed by the government. Mrs. Baay, you were and are not a stranger in this house. From September 2015 until March 28, 2017, you were a member of the 50PLUS Group. And you are certainly not a stranger at the Binnenhof, because before that time you were a member of the Lower House of the States General from 7 October 2013 until 31 December 2014. You were even the leader of the group 50PLUS/Baay for some time, a position which you had to resign for health reasons. You studied law at the Vrije Universiteit van Amsterdam and worked in law for many years, first in Amsterdam and later in Naarden. You gained national fame when in 1994 as a lawyer of former Minister Westerterp you won a trial on the carpool strip on the A1 against the then Minister Maij-Weggen and a battery of state lawyers. At the beginning of this century you lived in Spain for a number of years. After your return, in 2009, Jan Nagel soon asked you for a think tank of 50PLUS I understand that he had taken the necessary legal advice from you in an earlier political life, because of your sounding victory over the State. It is not an exaggeration to say that since this request by Nagel 50PLUS has played an important role in your life. In addition to the already mentioned membership of the Lower House and the present of the Upper Chamber, you are now also an advisor to the Central Board and a member of the Financial Committee of your party. And a little longer back, in 2011 and 2012, you were Secretary of 50PLUS, but also Secretary of the Scientific Bureau, in 2015. In short, the public image as 50PLUS would consist purely of men like Jan Nagel and Henk Krol needs some nuance. Mrs Baay, I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and suspend the sitting for a short moment to allow colleagues to congratulate you, but I will gladly do so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u37	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Baay-Timmerman on her maiden speech. We hope to hear a lot from her, and especially from subjects that we can prepare a little longer and a little more content than in this case. Perhaps I could also take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Schippers, the Minister, on her forthcoming possible exit speech, for which I would have liked her to have had a more satisfactory and substantive subject, and perhaps also a legislative proposal which she herself supported. Maybe that would have been nice for her, too. But she has to do with what she gets here. The good news: as GroenLinks, we support not raising our own risk. We support that because of the accessibility of care and because of the reduction of care avoidance, which has everything to do with it, although of course we would not want to finance that............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those are political choices, and we are making different choices. However, reducing care avoidance is an essential point that we should share, because care avoidance is a perverse incentive, which we often misunderstand in The Hague as a reduction in healthcare costs. We really need to discuss this with each other in greater depth and in greater depth. I think Mrs Bikker would agree. I only mention her because we happen to have two interesting debates today. In a previous debate we heard today, she said the following about a legislative proposal. I quote her more or less, but I think that it was based on feelings only, not on good analysis and good justification and that it was a highly politicised proposal. I actually agreed with her and thought that they were prophetic words for a second bill that we are discussing today: little justification, little good analysis, a fast and highly politicised proposal. That raises the question: what is the task of us as the First Chamber in that? A careful consideration, and it's about content. As I have already said on the substance, we support it on that point. But it is also about careful consideration in our procedures. And then the question is: was there a need for an emergency procedure? Couldn't we have foreseen this? Should we not have been able to do so in the budget, and should we have been able to do so? In fact, I cannot imagine that the present government, in which the PvdA plays a role, would have been inconvenient if it had been wanted to settle it in the budget. With the teacher's salaries, things have been arranged. Couldn't this have just been done in a proper way? While we seem to have a confessional or semiconfessional cabinet, suddenly I was reminded of that beautiful musical and film, Jesus Christ Superstar. In one of the songs the apostles sing at some point: what's the buzz, tell me what's happening. Then the answer is don't you mind about the future, don't you try to think ahead. And that question still lingers! Couldn't people have thought ahead? Could it not have been seen in advance that it will be October 1st and that if you want something with it, it will be useful to just arrange it in time? That gives unsatisfactory comparisons. If the President refers to the last time we had an emergency procedure here, then I think that the situation at that time was a little more urgent and of a different order than what we are dealing with today. I have to say honestly: I also get the impression, and that is why I find it interesting what is happening, that we are getting a good insight into the proportions of the new coalition to be. It is a pity, I see, that in the House of Representatives too, there is such a debate that there was a substantive debate and that it was necessary, but that it is blocked by a premature coalition force in my interpretation. Nothing against compromise, but that's another thing. The First Chamber will also have to take public support as a matter of consideration. Here we are now defending an outcome which ultimately runs counter to a very broad majority of Chambers and societies. That is not about not raising; I think everyone agrees on that. But there is a very broad consensus, including with two coalition parties to be, that the risk, and certainly the high risk that we still know, is not the right way to reduce healthcare costs, that it does not do justice to a genuine solidarity system, that particularly vulnerable people suffer from it, and that, especially in times of abundance, in which we now live, you should use the space to increase solidarity. But, and I regret that, the four parties that are engaged in coalition discussions across the street here it is much more cozy there have embraced each other tightly and did not want to talk about alternatives. I find that problematic. In substance, this is a non-proposal: a very small positive effect on the position of people with a lot of care costs. That is why we support it. But it's too little too late. If one of the members here still speaks of his coalition party or a forming party across the street, perhaps you will pass on: this is a pyrrus victory; you will make a proposal in this way but you will unnecessarily risk the proportions. This could be four long years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In our country, care is of high quality and everyone has access to that care. We don't make a distinction. We also make no distinction in the premium you pay, except that if you have a very low income, you will be compensated for the premium through the health care allowance. If the premium increases, the care allowance also automatically increases. If one's own risk increases, it also automatically increases. The balance between what is paid by people who are healthy and those who are sick is also found at their own risk. It's not a tool people are excited about. That's perfectly understandable. When you're sick, it's very annoying when you have to pay your own risk. But we need a payment of our own if we want a decent solidarity between the contributors, which is for the most part people who are healthy, and the people who use care. That does not alter the fact that the level of one's own risk is perceived as a barrier by very many people. Therefore, a majority of the House of Representatives, including the VVD, supported the proposal to freeze its own risk once at €385. The measure takes place within the system of the Health Insurance Act as we know it now. Of course, we are anxiously waiting for the coalition agreement so that we can look at this measure and see it in the wider picture. My group will support the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Bruijn. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Do you need a period of suspension? No? You can answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u42	I already did it today!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u43	You've already done it once today, okay! Are you turning off a tape or something? Oh, come on. Okay, then you can move on right away, that's good. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm leaving out an introduction. I have been asked a number of questions. I shall begin with Mrs Nooren's questions. She says: what is the effect of this bill and how could you translate it? The effect is €15 lower own risk for those who complete their own risk and €10 higher premium for everyone. The Central Planning Office has investigated the effects of its own risk and estimates that healthcare expenditure will increase by 39 million. That's the behavior effect. You get 101 million less in revenue, and 39 million is the behavioral effect. What does that behavior effect mean? That's very difficult. I have had a lot of debates on this in recent years. Very often, views have been taken on the basis of surveys in these debates. In 2015, I had the NIVEL conduct a thorough investigation. The study, on the one hand, and the surveys carried out on the other, showed that care avoidance did not increase with a higher own risk over the years. It has already been said here that its own risk has increased from €220 to €385 in the past period and would go up to €400 next year. I would like to add that this is so fair that, as a result of the Spring Agreement, it was not €220. In fact, the Labour Party was not part of the Spring Agreement. We started higher, with €350. It's grown from that period to what it is now. There is a payment arrangement with each insurer for one's own risk. That means you can pay a month instead of at once. 800,000 people are in on it. I think it's a good thing people can pay in pieces. They can do the same with the power bill. So they can do the same in the care bill. The number of defaulters decreased by 20% between 2014 and mid-2017. The Netherlands has low international own payments. How is it possible that DSW is now coming up with a slight reduction in premiums very lightly; it is not really spectacular when the cabinet with Princess' Day still assumed an estimated premium increase of, not very much, but still, €6 per month? And DSW announced its own risk of €375. Is that even allowed? To start with that last one. In the Quality policy paper, we have said: can you not ensure that more quality is delivered in care and that you actually reward it? I have made it clear in the window that an insurer can reduce its own risk for providers he designates, for example, with which he concludes a contract. But if you as a DSW in Groningen have not signed a contract, you can also say: that hospital is good, so I also point that out. Actually, that's what DSW does. He's just saying he's gonna point out a lot of providers. It then sets its own risk at €375 instead of at €385. Let's be honest. They're just communicative facts. He could've cut the bounty a little bit more. So that's a choice an insurer can make. Ultimately, the proceeds of both the own risk and the nominal premium as well as of what you receive through the income-dependent payment, with a key to the risk settlement, should simply cover the costs. So the only thing that really helps the citizen is lower burdens, is lower costs. You can have whole debates about whether this should be through premium increases or through taxes. In my view, the contributor is often also the taxpayer. The only difference is that the nominal premium is very visible and the tax is not so. So they feel people less, but she's there. Look at the income-dependent contribution paid by self-employed pensioners or employees through their employer. It's rising, too. Have we ever had a debate here on the income-dependent contribution? Never, because people don't notice that rise. It's getting off the paycheck somewhere. A lot of people don't look there. That's pluses and minuses. Ultimately, it's about having to pay the cost of care with each other and how we distribute those costs. This is, of course, partly the subject of this debate. Is that okay? Yeah, that's okay. He can't do it generically. He can't say it's less for everyone. How DSW does that in the execution, I'm curious about that. I'll follow it with great interest, of course. I would just like to say that he has to put that clearly and clearly in the policy. How come there's a difference between estimates? That's a wonderful feast every year. We are, of course, estimating on the basis of what we think the costs will be in the following year. And we estimate on the basis of what the Central Planning Bureau indicates what the wage and price increase would be. This summer, the Central Planning Bureau came up with a big wage and price increase. It has therefore been translated, which has increased the cost of care more rapidly, and its own risk too, than I thought before the summer recess on the basis of the information I had. Who's right, DSW or the estimate? That's always the big question. DSW has more and more accurate information, because they're later. They can see exactly what their pharmaceutical bills are. They think they're lucky. With the knowledge we have now, we think this might be possible. They add some of their reserves. I'm not sure what's going on with the wage adjustment and the price adjustment. At DSW, they say it's gonna be okay. The CPB says otherwise. But every year this is a fight. Last year, a lot of people said to me: you set it politically correct, because you would like to make good decoration with an understated estimate. This year, of course, I get exactly the opposite criticism: you scare the shit out of everyone. I can say one thing. If we estimate and an insurer determines it lower, then that is a purchasing power advantage for the consumer. DSW is a small insurance company. I don't know what the big insurance companies are gonna do. If they follow, that may mean a slight increase in purchasing power, but I dare not put my hand in the fire for it. In doing so, I also answered Mr Don's questions about the difference of opinion. Mrs Teunissen was homesick of the old sickness fund. At the old sickness fund you paid 12 years ago, if you had a minimum income, €544. There were average own payments in that. Twelve years later, the lowest incomes pay according to the estimate, which is now wondering whether I have set the premium too high, €407. That is €140 less and we are twelve years old and a battery of new medicines, new tools and new treatments further on, and there is much more care demand. So it's only become a lot more social. That's gonna get really lost. I say it every debate. A person with a minimum income will pay €140 less than 12 years ago under the sickness fund next year. It's very difficult, but it's true. You can check it yourself. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u46	In my words, there was a question hidden. It wasn't entirely explicit, so let me make it explicit. Does the Minister really want this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u47	I didn't file it myself. I was asked by way of a motion in the House of Representatives. I often hear that I have made a decision to increase the risk to €400. That's incorrect. We have a system in which the costs of care are translated into their own risk. I have indeed allowed that to go through in accordance with the law. The bill as it is here is therefore motivated by a motion of four parties in the Lower House. So I'll give you an indirect answer, but it's clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u48	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. This debate was held on the same day as in the Lower House. That's exceptional. It is also exceptional that, apart from all the speakers, there has been a second deadline. I've never seen that before. There is a person who would like to make a contribution in the second term, but who has registered for half a minute. My electronics aren't good for that. Mr. Flierman is moving forward. Okay, okay, well, if the shoe fits, put it on. Mr Flierman, you have registered for half a minute. I'll clock you for a minute. Then I give you the floor. We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Every second counts. Nor does the CDA Group need a second term. But you challenged me to allow Mr Don to ask me another question in the second term. The courtesy in this house is progressing that I go with you and offer him that opportunity. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u50	Mr Flierman, the point is actually long gone. It's about the moment in a debate you're thinking, now I have to say something. And it went every time, of course, you pointed to the PvdA about determining the level of your own risk. But my comment would have been about the fact that you have, of course, been there every time. I'd like to remind you of that. You made your election promise. Now there's a small step in that direction. You can point out the consequences, but I also tried to point out to you your own consequences. This is where I did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u51	Well, the only thing I would like to say is that in this debate, which was expressed in Mr Don's words, but also in those of some other groups, there are apparently a number of people who already know exactly what is going to be in the coalition agreement. We have said here in the debate above all: we are choosing a time-out, because we are curious about the outcome of the coalition agreement and then a fundamental debate on the development of the costs of care and the way in which you can control it. We still think so. For the time being that time-out is a useful tool. We await with great interest the results of the forming parties in their negotiations. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u52	I am also going to wait with a great deal of interest, Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u53	Thank you, Mr Flierman, for remembering that Mr Don had asked you a question. Yeah, I'll close the debate. Oh, no, the second term on the Minister's side is still coming. But I see she doesn't need a second term. There you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-5.u54	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? Doesn't anyone want a vote on the bill?
