ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the attack at a London mosque on Sunday 18 June 2017. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, and the Ambassador, Geoffrey Adams. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. "Absentating," a London resident called the situation in the United Kingdom at the moment. It describes very strikingly how Brits feel. With each attack, a piece of land is thrown away under their feet and the United Kingdom feels less secure, open and free, their country, their home and their port. The day before yesterday there was another attack in London. A man drove into a group of mosque visitors who had just been together for the Ramadangebed, with the aim of making as many victims as possible. Also at the Champs-Élysées in Paris someone tried to attack. There was a car driving on a police van. Luckily, no cops or passers-by got hurt there. In response to the London attack, Mayor Sadiq Khan said: "It looks like an attack on a specific community, but as with the attacks in Manchester, Westminster and London Bridge, it is also an attack on tolerance, freedom and respect." In doing so, he underlines the common interest. He doesn't deal with the differences, but with what binds us. That's what I'm supposed to do. It is important that population groups do not allow themselves to be turned against each other or played out. That applies not only in England, but everywhere. Or, as the religious leaders who came together in Finsbury Park said, those who want to sow hatred and division will not succeed. We need to focus on what we share. That is what we find in the basic values of a democratic rule of law: freedom of expression and equality, tolerance and understanding for those who disagree. We have to stick to that, because a country, a home, a port deserves you to stand up for it. I have informed the British Parliament that we are thinking of them: the victims who fell the day before yesterday, their families and the whole of British society, who are being put to the test. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. The horrible attack that took place the night before at a mosque in London shows how this form of terrorist violence can affect everyone in a society: concertgoers in Paris and Manchester, wandering tourists in Westminster, travelers at Brussels airport and now a group of peaceful believers gathered at their prayer house on the early night of Sunday on Monday because of the Ramadan. People who simply wanted to confess their faith were attacked out of nowhere by an act of blind hatred. We are today commemorating a deadly victim and expressing our support and sympathy towards the families and everyone affected by this attack. Our hearts are back in London. Let us remember once again today how much these recent acts of violence are to be traced back to the poison of aggressive side-by-side thinking, a way of thinking that excludes and turns people against each other, hostile to everything else. And that is the only real contradiction: they, the small group that chooses violence against innocent fellow citizens, against us, who are more powerful and believe in the way of consultation, democracy and equality. I would like to express my appreciation here for the representatives of the Islamic community in the Netherlands, who yesterday called for peace and calm. Of course I support that call, because it is as one of them put it: the terrorists will not stop until society is torn apart, but we will not let that happen. I quote these words with great agreement, because this is and remains the only correct response to attacks like this, to anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I would ask you all to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can convey your condolences to the United Kingdom Ambassador at the Members' Restaurant.
