ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u1	I see the cabinet detachment has thinned out nicely. Oh, they're still having lunch... we're working. We need the second term of office. I hope everyone knows how much time he or she has. It's on the list, but I'll tell you in advance. I call Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst. She's got seven minutes max.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister noted in his speech that Dutch people estranged from their own neighborhood because of what he calls poor integration. A typical case of: when the calf has drowned, the well is muffled. Not only in their own neighborhood, many Dutch people feel like strangers in their own country because of the constant mass immigration, and in particular Islamization. According to the Prime Minister, the problems with immigrants have nothing to do with Islam, but with integration. The Prime Minister is blind. If Islam rules here, our Constitution will first be replaced by Sharia. We need to de-Islamicize in order to protect our Constitution. The Prime Minister states that all the conditions have been put in place to maximise the benefits of economic recovery. The question is who benefits. Not the ordinary Dutchman, who pays for the VAT increase, for the increase of the energy note by €190 to a total of €835 per year, who pays through the EU to another €5 billion for the Greeks and to abolish the dividend tax. In view of the comments of the VVD, the abolition of the dividend tax is apparently not so much lobbied by the large multinationals, but it is the result of a tough lobby of Chilean grannies, who want to buy shares in the Netherlands and yes, these shares can buy these Chilean grannies thanks to the decades of Dutch development aid to Chile, while it is inconceivable for our own Dutch grannies to be able to invest money in shares. Their pensions are no longer indexed under this Rutte III cabinet. And not only our older people are screwed, all Dutch have turned in to purchasing power, according to Eurostat, -6.4%, no less, since 2008. Only Greece, Cyprus and Italy are doing better. Can the Prime Minister explain how this relates to the jubilee story about the EU? In my speech, I asked the Prime Minister if the mosque administration would still have influence in mediation. He said he'd come back to that. The question is when will he come back to that and how. With regard to the Iftar, the PVV is still of the opinion that the police should not go together with Islam, and that is why we are tabling a motion. The President shall: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Dercksen, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Peter van Dijk and Mr Van der Sluijs proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the police should be neutral;]] [[noting that the police are joining eiftars in uniform and that the police are organising eiftars themselves;]] [[believes that Islam and the police should be strictly separate;]] [[calls on the government to ban all Islamic expressions and acts in the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u3	Then I have another motion here, concerning halal. We still believe that we need to examine further the extent to which proceeds from halal can be used by terrorist organisations. The President shall: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Dercksen, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Peter van Dijk and Mr Van der Sluijs proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that certification of halal products is a growing source of revenue for Islamic organisations in a market worth more than USD 600 billion;]] [[whereas it is claimed in various media that part of this revenue can be used to finance terrorist organisations;]] [[invites the Government to further examine whether these alleged practices exist in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber of the outcome as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u4	With regard to the request to the Prime Minister to correct the discrimination against Dutch people, I read a part of the laundry list here yesterday. Then the Prime Minister indicated that he couldn't answer because the case is under the judge. That is a bit of a news item, because we are already very happy with that answer. This shows that the prosecution has been prosecuted, because otherwise the case can never be brought before the courts. The question to the Prime Minister is whether I understood that correctly. Was the case taken by the D.A.'s office? Is there a prosecution in the district attorney's office? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma and she has a maximum of 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'll try not to use it on. Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister very much for his extremely comprehensive and comprehensive answer to the large number of questions that have been put to him. We are very satisfied with a large number of the answers. I shall begin with the comment made by the Prime Minister on the attitude of the government. Especially the words he spoke about microbehaviour and the macro-story appealed to me very much, so on the one hand the power of the State and on the other the understanding of the people. I would like to add to the people's initiative, because that too is one of the things that the government often has a hard time with. We in the government always think we know something better than people themselves. It would be good if we looked at that very differently. You will find a number of former mayors in our group. By the way, there are more of them in this Chamber. A question I often asked my officials at that time was: if you were to receive such a letter yourself, how would you like it? And if you were a little less educated than you are now, would you still understand that letter? That was usually enough to send the writer back to do something else. That's the way it is when people want something. Then we have to think, and by 'we' I mean the whole government, also municipal councils sometimes too, that we might do it differently ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u7	But, Mrs. Jorritsma, you're not the government, are you? You're parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u8	Yes, but we make laws in the government domain, let me put it this way. The problem is, of course, that we adopt laws here, and those laws must contain legally sound legal texts. It'll only start after that. Then the government must implement those laws and by "the government" I mean not only the government, but also the province and also the municipalities. Then the translation is done according to implementing rules and to 'how do I bring that to my citizens'. On the way there, there's still a lot going wrong. I think, therefore, that we should be alert to this when we make that law, and think about how it will end up in the right place in the gremia that is going to carry it out. And then I'm talking not only about "the government," but also about civil society organisations that carry out things on behalf of. That was the first point about politics and government. The second point I would like to make concerns the question put by Mr Kox concerning the examination of the legislation or the way in which it has been done. We have also discussed this in the group, and we have come to the conclusion that it is really not wise to do so at the moment. Why not? There is now an extensive report by the Chicken Commission with a lot of recommendations which I also expect the Minister, but may I say that the police organisation itself has a lot more to offer for the time being. And it has to be, because yes, a lot of things still have to change with the police, and that's a good thing. I myself have some experience with organisations that have been subjected to parliamentary scrutiny or a parliamentary survey. Whatever happens, one thing is certain: it paralyzes an organization. Especially with the police, who are still in full swing and are not settled in the new situation, I would be very hesitant if you should do anything to disrupt that process again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u9	For the sake of clarity, the investigation I am advocating and which I have heard sympathy for in various other groups is not a police investigation. It is an investigation into the role of government and parliament in the implementation of the law on national police. We have all devised and designed that process and are finally faced with the fact that the outcome is not what we thought we would have arranged. So we're not gonna get the whole cops on the floor and question them. No, we need to investigate, as was done in the first parliamentary inquiry of the Kuiper Committee, what the role of government and parliament has been in this process. In that sense, I do not think Mrs Jorritsma's fear that this would paralyze the police would come true. We both agree that the police must now work together with the Minister in order to do everything that still needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u10	Part of it is simply implementing the legislation. This legislation is there, but it is far from being fully implemented. So the question of whether the law is really bad, the question of whether the process such as government and parliament went through at the time was really bad, can only be answered once all these proposals have been implemented. The Kuiper Committee's proposals do not contain so many proposals to change that law again. These proposals relate in particular to how to ensure that the objectives of the law, which have been discussed extensively here, are actually achieved. Let's do that first! If, at the end of the journey, it turns out that things are not as they are now laid down in the law, then you have a point. But at the moment, I think it is far too early to do so. Now you should talk earlier about the question "Kuijken" and that's what Kuijken has already done.What have they actually done with it and how should they proceed? That's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u11	I shall come back to this in my term, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u12	Fine. That was the second part. The third thing I would like to say is about the investment quotas in the armed forces. The Prime Minister has said that the overall investment ratio is at the desired level, but my question was to report it to us by armies. Maybe that can still happen. Finally, you will understand, Mr President, that I am pleased that the sentences written in the coalition agreement are merely sentences in the coalition agreement, but not a change in the mandate given to the state committee. I would like to leave it at that. I wish the Cabinet much strength and success in carrying out the enormous task laid down in the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Kox. He's got four minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u14	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive response. I thank the members of the Cabinet for their extensive patience to be here with us. And I thank colleagues for what, I think, has generally been a useful and enjoyable debate. In my term, I should like to focus briefly on four points. Firstly, in response to Mrs Jorritsma too, I come back to the proposal to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the introduction and implementation of the law for the national police, and everything that comes with it, I say to Mrs Barth. I think the Prime Minister made a good proposal when he said: let us first wait for the appreciation of the cabinet by Minister Grapperhaus, who will come in the spring. I hope it will be in early spring, not in June, but in February or March. At that time, this Chamber may decide on the desirability and the need to conduct this second parliamentary inquiry. I think we'll figure it out. I also think that this parliamentary investigation is government support and further support for our own work. I will come back to that in due course, hopefully with as many other colleagues as possible. Secondly, it is good to hear that the Prime Minister is prepared to check, within the framework of access to justice and legal aid, whether the funds required by the Van der Meer Committee for the funded legal aid are adequate, and if necessary to look further at them. Thank you for that. A third issue on which I have spoken these days, like others, is that something is not going well with dealing with child poverty. We all want to do it, but we can't get the number down. Today, the Children's Ombudsman said that the number is 378.000. That's not a drop. We can't do it. I think we should move from an effort obligation to a performance obligation. The first step would be to come up with a policy that is actually committed to reducing poverty. Just so we're clear, this motion doesn't ask for more money. The Prime Minister says we have money at our disposal. The municipalities have money at their disposal. The methodology needs to be adapted, as proposed by the Economic and Social Council. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Barth, Mr Strike, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nagel and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that one in nine children grow up in poverty, as described in the report "All Children Opposite" of 5 December 2017 of the Kinderombudsman;]] [[Observed that despite all policy efforts at national and local level, child poverty is not falling, and currently stands at 378.000 children;]] [[Whereas, at the invitation of this Chamber, the Economic and Social Council has made proposals to ensure that children in the Netherlands no longer have to grow up in poverty;]] [[having regard to the ESC's recommendation to pursue policies aimed at structurally reducing the number of children in poverty by a certain percentage;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with this Recommendation, to come up with a proposal for a reduction target, thereby effectively reducing child poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u15	May I ask the petitioner a question, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u16	Go ahead, Mr. Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u17	You have a sympathetic goal in mind; there is no misunderstanding about that. I myself know only grandchildren, but I am told by people who know very well that in practice the workers in the field still seem to have little or too little use of the facilities that are happy; I express myself with caution. Since you are talking about a roadmap, I would ask you: is it also conceivable that we should start with an encouragement to the government and a request to see if this can be better used by those concerned professionals and volunteers? Then we can get a report and then we can see how far we are, instead of, as it were, starting on the other side and calling numbers now when we don't know at all whether we can do that and where we come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u18	What Mr Brinkman is proposing, we must certainly do. We do this in part, at national and local level. That can be significantly better. It's been re-examined recently. I'm not starting anything new. Our motion follows on from something that we have already spoken in this Chamber. We asked the Economic and Social Council, supported by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, to tell us how to reduce child poverty more effectively. The Economic and Social Council presents this proposal in its report. I therefore propose to ask the government to do what the Economic and Social Council has put on paper at our invitation. We need to achieve a quantitative reduction target in order to make the effort obligation a performance obligation. The Prime Minister says he doesn't like it, but I think it has to be done. And 'according to me' here means 'according to the Economic and Social Council', which is our advisor on this point. So I'm not making up anything new, and I'm not saying that the cabinet has to come up with new money. The Prime Minister has said that more money is being allocated to this in the coalition agreement. There is also a lot of money in the municipalities for this. It's about the methodology. If an advisory body such as the Economic and Social Council advises us to do so, I think we can ask the government to do so. As far as the CDA camp is concerned whether we are starting something new again: no, it is the follow-up to a decision we have taken here and an opinion we have received from the Economic and Social Council. This is a third step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u19	Can I ask Mr Kox another question about the motion? A recent study has shown that I am not prepared to accept that the extra money allocated to this purpose by the previous cabinet, which was largely transferred to the municipalities, has not been spent on that purpose by a significant part of the municipalities. Is the operative part of Mr Kox's motion also intended to provide an answer to that problem, so that the non-committalness of the use of these resources is a little off for the municipalities because we are going to work with results obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u20	I think that could be one of the conclusions. We must of course respect the autonomy of the municipalities, but the government could say: "We are really going to quantify it now. That is how we want to get rid of this disgrace in the 21st century. This means that the resources we make available to the municipalities must also be used for this purpose. We understand the needs of the municipalities in all possible areas, but these means are intended to be used against the great shame that in this country with sintering class 378.000 children live in poverty." We're very much in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u21	I have two questions here. You have seen that this cabinet is making a new effort, for example in the area of debt relief. A great deal of poverty comes from situations where parents are in debt, but a new commitment is now being made. How do you appreciate that? Secondly, this is a municipal policy. You say there must be a reduction. How do you imagine that? Do we have to prescribe municipalities numbers? This is getting a little complicated, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u22	Mr Kuiper's party has also supported this Chamber's decision to ask the Economic and Social Council for advice on how to do this. This is the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. You can read the reports: the observation is that we all want the same thing, but we do not care because we do not say what steps we are going to take. The municipalities are doing their best, the Empire is doing its best and civil society is doing its best, but we need to agree on how to actually convert that into numbers. The numbers are important here, because they do not fall, but sometimes rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u23	That is correct, but my group also supports the approach of this cabinet, which I do see as a whole new initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u24	I do not see in the motion as I put it in any way a confrontational point with what the government is saying. The coalition agreement mentions once that we must also tackle child poverty. You've already noticed that yourself. The Prime Minister said more about this in his explanatory statement. I think that is all very well, but on a proposal from the government, we need to agree on what steps we are actually going to take to get these 378 000 children out of poverty. Good intentions and a great deal of effort are not enough in this respect. We really need to score here. The Children's Ombudsman has also said today the consequences of poverty. If you start in poverty, the chances of an unhappy and unproductive life are enormous. We all must not want that, and we all do not want that. I propose that we proceed with this motion as advised by the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u26	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u27	Oh, I thought you were done already and you were so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u28	No, I have one minute and 23 seconds left. We've talked a lot about the Netherlands. There's a lot to say about the Netherlands, too, but the Netherlands is not an island. It has been said by several speakers. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his willingness to look again at the possibilities of giving these two other European organisations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, a little more room for manoeuvre, given the particular importance they attach to human rights, peace and security. I would also like to put a motion to the House. In the year that our country will be represented in the United Nations Security Council, the government has unique opportunities to take the lead in a number of areas. I would therefore like to ask about the government's efforts on the anti-nuclear treaty. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Barth, Mr Strike, Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government Agreement pledges that the Government will actively promote a nuclear-free world;]] [[Considering that the International Campaign for the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on 10 December 2017;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Dutch Government has decided not to sign the UN Treaty on the abolition of nuclear weapons (yet) due to alleged conflict with the obligations of NATO membership and due to the possible impact of erosion of the Non-Proliferation Treaty;]] [[Whereas, as a temporary member of the Security Council, the Netherlands will have a special opportunity to play a leading role in 2018;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the issues where the obligations imposed on the Netherlands by the ratification of the UN Treaty on the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons differ from the commitments made by the Netherlands as signatories to the Non-Proliferation Treaty;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and inform the Chamber of the areas where the obligations imposed on the Netherlands by the ratification of the UN Treaty on the abolition of nuclear weapons conflict with the Dutch obligations under the NATO Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u29	Madam President. Can I use my last 35 seconds to wish everyone a fine sintering classroom? I hope everyone in his shoe finds what he or she asked for. If something excessive might have ended up in that booty, that's what you have in this consumer society quite often, I remind everyone of the existence of all kinds of local initiatives that are very nice but that you don't need, housing with organizations that know the shortest way to, for example, the children who are unfortunately passing sinterklaas again today. If we were to do all that, we would at least make a few children happy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I give the floor to Mr Brinkman. He has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u31	Madam President, you're getting away with it. I think the Prime Minister has spoken confidence-building words about what he intends to do. As far as we're concerned, he's on his way there before 4:00 p.m. with his cabinet. Then we will often see him here, especially now that we know he does not want to abolish this Chamber. I only have one more question. It is always about things that have not been promised or that will no longer be discussed. The Prime Minister says that we are working with the ESC on the old age provision, supplementary pension provision, and you will hear more about it. That debate has been going on for a few years, and I wonder if there is a plan B. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President. I would like to wish the Prime Minister and his cabinet much strength in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mrs Barth, who has four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. To a very large extent we can also go on with this, but I still have a number of points. The first is about not handing the police over to the Ministry of the Interior. With all due respect, the Prime Minister made himself a bit of an easy job of that. He said: we have made a political assessment. And that's it. We believe that this is a risky political assessment, because that mammoth tanker of Justice and Security will continue to exist in this way, and the checks and balances in the police system are not properly placed in this way. The police must not only catch criminals but also maintain public order. This requires embedding in local society and commitment to the social task of the police. So we will continue to follow the cabinet critically on this issue, and that will certainly come back as far as we are concerned in the response to the Chicken report and the debate in this House on the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Then the first line in health care. We approached each other very closely, but I just didn't hear the few magic words that would have made me really happy, namely: direction, coordination and a very proactive attitude. I have thought for a moment of tabling a motion on this, but that would not do justice to the extent to which the Prime Minister met me in the first term. That is why I would ask the Prime Minister to send us a letter on this, in which he could indicate what direction and coordination on that first line of care is going to be. Then I will give the Prime Minister a moment: in his first term I heard him say three, four, maybe five times that he does not want to send us letters, because that would burden the administration too much. I must confess that I found that a disturbing stain on the high quality of the Prime Minister's response. Because especially here in the First Chamber, we really depend to a large extent on the cabinet for our information. And the official support that the cabinet has is really many, many, many times greater than the official support we have in the Upper Chamber. So I hope the Prime Minister is prepared to send us that letter on coordination in the first line. Mr President, my final point is VAT and purchasing power. I checked those purchasing power tags again. That is of course a mer à boire in which you can shop and from which you can get what you need. The Prime Minister really did that this morning. He indicates that the gini coefficient is falling slightly, but in a beautiful blue booklet that we found in our inboxes today, the cabinet indicates that there is "a slight increase in inequality in income levels'. Those are, as I indicated in my first term, movements both in one direction and in the other. This lacks the clarity in the pictures, as we would like to see them. Such an increase in VAT should yield 2.5 billion. This is a major measure which, as I have tried to point out, will not only have effects on purchasing power and on burden relief or burden reduction but will also have social effects. And because we would very much like these social effects to be properly reflected, I shall table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Barth, Mr Kox, Mr Strik, Mr Nagel and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement on Trust provides for an increase in the low VAT rate in the future without further explanation of the substance;]] [[Whereas increasing the low VAT rate entails risks to the competitiveness of independent retailers, in particular in shrinking regions and border regions;]] [[Whereas entry prices of theatres and museums are also affected by the rise in the low VAT rate;]] [[Whereas booksellers may be particularly affected by an increase in the low VAT rate as they are already operating at very low margins, they must compete with internet sales and, because of the fixed book price, have little or no room for manoeuvre in their pricing;]] [[Whereas healthy behaviour is not encouraged if prices of healthy food and sport rise under the influence of the VAT increase;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the sectors concerned, to analyse the social impact of the VAT increase, paying explicit attention to the position of independent retailers in shrinking and border regions, the cultural sector including bookshops and newspapers and the prevention of unhealthy behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-34775-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to give the Prime Minister the following on this motion. He indicated in the coalition agreement and in this debate that he wanted to reach out to the opposition but also to the social partners. Such an impact analysis of the VAT increase is also requested by the social partners, so if the Minister gives this motion a positive reception, he will hit two birds with one stone. I hope he's willing to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u35	I have one more question about this. Is this motion in itself in the context of a rejection of the measure? Or do you suspend your assessment of the VAT increase, pending, for example, the investigation you are asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u36	We are concerned about this measure. This may have been demonstrated by the first time in this debate. So we are not in favour of it, but I strongly urge the motion to carry out an investigation, precisely in order to really weigh up the merits of the measure that we only have to decide on next year. If I'd finished my mind by now, I wouldn't have to ask for that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mrs Barth. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'll hurry. Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister very much, not as a platitude, for the full and comprehensive response on behalf of his cabinet. It was an extremely pleasant answer. I would like to summarize it as a kind of motto for the new cabinet: realistic, pragmatic, a touch of enthusiasm and even vision. It's a pleasure. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister spoke of the paradox, which I only briefly summarized as 'the more polarization, the greater the responsibility for parties to manage on the basis of acceptance'. I can very much endorse that. I would believe that this is also the task of all of us: to look for the similarities where possible and not for the differences. I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the clear and nuanced way in which he preached an inclusive society, including to reject the words of the PVV Group. As far as I and my group are concerned, the Prime Minister's explanation of the burden relief was clear, for which I am grateful, even in the case of SMEs and shopkeepers, which the Labour Party can, of course, quite rightly have concerns about in itself. I understand that too, but I do not yet have the impression that the total of the relief package would make it more difficult for those shopkeepers. I would like to await the assessment of Mrs Barth's motion by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Fourth. I have heard little from the Prime Minister about the urgency of understanding society when it comes to the state of democracy. Of course it is about that state committee, but I think we have a more urgent and important task than just waiting for the state committee to come. I would also ask the cabinet very strongly, even if the Prime Minister is in talks with the Minister for Social Affairs, to focus on the element of increasing democratic support and the search for new ways of strengthening that link between citizens and political governance. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about weed cultivation experiments. In my first term, I didn't talk about it myself. We are happy to wait for legislation, but I still have a question. A number of mayors have asked for differentiated experiments not uniform, but differentiated, so that they can actually test what works best. It could be different in one city than in the other. I would like to ask the Prime Minister not to reject this in advance, but to see whether a responsible package of experiments can be carried out in consultation with the mayors. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll finish my last second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I give the floor to Mrs Strik. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. It is good to hear him talk about the principles and ambitions of the cabinet. But given the answers to the specific questions, the debate has not given us any more confidence in the future in public policy. As far as we are concerned, the inclusive cooperation that the cabinet claims to pursue has not been translated into policy. Think of education, integration, labour market and income policies. We have just talked about income and purchasing power trends. In doing so, the Prime Minister fought that the lowest incomes would be the worst off. However, I would like to point out once again the CPB transfer, which clearly states that the lowest group is at 0.6% of purchasing power because of the policy, while the next one is at 0.9%. If you translate that into absolute amounts, there's a pretty big difference. Especially when you look at the basic path, the overall development, you still see a difference between 0.8% and 1.4%. So it is true that the lowest incomes benefit the least. Our concern is for the most vulnerable people in the labour market. We have reservations about the effects of the government's measures. We welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to monitor this. He would give this further form in his second term, but to be sure, my group will table a motion on this matter. We can always withdraw it if there is a commitment along these lines. The President shall: Mr Strike, Mr Kox, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is committed to an inclusive society and translates, inter alia, into measures to improve the employment rate of people with disabilities, disabled persons and Wajongers;]] [[Whereas the envisaged measures in the coalition agreement tend to amount to fewer financial guarantees for people in a vulnerable position, as in any case by:]] [[the tightening of the estimation decision leading to more people losing their WIA benefit;]] [[the replacement of labour cost subsidies by wage dispensation allowing people with disabilities to be paid below the statutory minimum wage;]] [[the removal of the right to work discount and IACK for people in the disease law;]] [[reducing the Wajong benefit;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a review of the impact of the measures on the actual income position and employment rates of these groups in a maximum period of three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. We consider this important, because an individual review of the law still does not provide an overall overview of the effects for vulnerable people on the labour market. We lack the confidence that the green ambitions of the agreement will really be realised. For example, it is estimated that the agreement only achieves half of 49% and the package also relies very heavily on an unrealistic plan for mass CO storage. So in order to push the cabinet in the right direction and make it take its own ambitions seriously, we are tabling the next motion. The President shall: Mr Strike, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kox, Mr Barth and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has ratified the Paris Convention on Climate Change and should therefore aim at global warming of not more than 1,5oC;]] [[Whereas the national climate plans adopted by that government provide the basis for achieving long-term environmental objectives;]] [[noting that the Plan Office for the Environment has established that the measures in this government agreement achieve only half of the necessary emission reductions;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a package of measures in the short term to achieve the necessary emission reduction and thereby reduce CO emissions by at least 49% by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. It remains for me to say that I welcome the commitment to investigate legal aid and further support for the Council of Europe. I wish the government good luck in governing and with the great responsibility to ensure that our country is of all our inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper. He's got two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr President. My group also thanks the Prime Minister for the prompt response to the questions. It has been very appealing to us, especially what was said at the beginning of this debate about the relationship with society. At one point, the Prime Minister said: I say that we are going to see how we can turn what is scattered about the government agreement on the relationship between government citizens, and in particular the attitude of the government and the work of implementing organisations such as inspections and the like, into a kind of coherent approach, including in consultation with BZK, which has a coordinating role. I look forward to that. I'll make another suggestion. In 2014, in response to a WRR report on the state of supervision, the cabinet said that there should be reflection in inspections and executive services in consultation with the field and the government. Maybe we can get the result of that now. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The passage in the coalition agreement that Mrs Jorritsma also mentioned touched us too. It concerns the wording of a electoral system which is linked to the Lower House, but which also mentions the position of the Upper Chamber. The Prime Minister would come back to this too. We look forward to that answer, but if it is as Mrs Jorritsma herself said here, namely that that passage in the coalition agreement does not result in a new mandate for the state committee, then that is all ready. The answer to a question from Mr Schalk and also from us on defence was equally quick. However, we do have the problem that was really agreed in Wales in 2014 that in ten years time we will work towards the 2% NATO standard. Every time we have a debate on defence, that happens here too. The answer that there is ambition, but actually no financial space, is unsatisfactory if we have the signature of agreements at the same time in which we say that we will do so. I thought there was more financial space right now. I would therefore like to hear how we are going to move towards this NATO standard. I have exactly zero minutes left, Mr President. I thank the Cabinet for its reply and wish it much strength in its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Koffeman. You have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering our first-term questions. I found it special to learn that the Prime Minister believes that corporateism would fit in with the tradition of liberal parties such as VVD and D66. As far as I know, corporatism runs counter to the liberal vision of individual citizens who decide for themselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u47	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u48	Oh, okay, okay, then I misunderstood you. Very good. As the Prime Minister knows, there are more and more complaints about the administrative silent revolution that is currently taking place in the form of large numbers of agreements, deals and agreements on the most diverse social issues. I would like the Prime Minister to be able to say a little more about this, in particular about the erosion of democratic control resulting from it. In my first term, I spoke about the covenant on unsedated ritual slaughter, manure agreements, energy agreements and sports and prevention agreements. Perhaps the Prime Minister could reflect a little bit more on the democratic control possibilities, which will reduce them for us. The second point, which has been limited, is the influence of the large-scale lobby on the abolition of dividend taxation. What is the impact of companies such as Unilever and the choice of location of their European headquarters on the abolition of dividend taxation? Unilever takes more time for that choice. Does the government now take more time for the bill to abolish the dividend tax? I come to the abolition of the consultative referendum. The Prime Minister has given very little explanation of the urgency of this matter and of the fact that the new rules should already apply to a law which, according to the Council of State, is indeed referendable at the moment. With regard to achieving the climate targets, it is still strange to hear the Prime Minister first say that no instruments will be excluded and then to hear him say that there will be no meat tax. Well, I guess there's an instrument being ruled out after all. Can the Prime Minister promise that those responsible for CO emissions will be held responsible for these emissions as part of the polluter-pays principle? Can he promise that these emissions will no longer be borne by society? Is the Prime Minister prepared to think not only of the stick but also of the root when effectively influencing consumer behaviour in the more environmental and climate-friendly direction? A change in the social standard can be achieved in many more ways than just through fiscal instruments. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u49	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to you, Mr Schalk. You have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the reply we received from the Prime Minister. It was very complete, I must say. I should like to make two brief points. The first is the one-earner. I'm glad the Prime Minister has reopened the door that seemed to be closed. The debate will be continued. The second point I would like to make concerns the repetition of pregnancy breaks. I mentioned that problem and I asked for research. In my opinion, this is in line with the prevention policy set out in the coalition agreement. I have heard from the Prime Minister that the government has no objection to investigation, but what about when and how? My group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is trying to get rid of the debate on abortion. That would be an important factor in the assessment of the law. I shall therefore table the next motion. I hope that the government, as well as my colleagues, will taste that this motion is not about the explanation of abortion, but about research. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Kox, Mr Meijer and Mr Ruers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the Annual Report on the Abrupt Pregnancy Act 2015, approximately one in three women who report to the abortion clinic have already experienced a pregnancy break-up;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the causes of repeated termination of pregnancy and to adopt measures to reduce recurrences and to inform the Court of Justice of this fact.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u51	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u52	Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u53	I would like to ask a question about that, Mr President. I am sympathetic to the motion, let me put it first, but the operative part does not state what you have just said. You said that prevention policy is mentioned in the coalition agreement. We can all see that. It is about prevention of pregnancies. So that is not in the end, but may I take it in such a way that what you ask of the government takes place in the context of what is said in the government agreement on the prevention of pregnancies? That's what you're trying to do, isn't it? Makes it a little easier for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you for this question. This will give me a little more time to explain. In that context, I have indeed tabled this motion. In the coalition agreement, on page 14 almost at the top, it says: "We are committed to preventing and supporting unintended (teen) pregnancy, on the basis of the agenda drawn up by a broad coalition of field parties." What's going on with this broad coalition of field parties, I can't see for a second. But at this point, which I mentioned yesterday, where 30% of the 30,000 pregnancy breaks were involved, we can actually do something about prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u55	Yes, so that is happening within the framework of the policy that the cabinet intends to pursue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u56	That seems to me to be absolutely the case. This research will probably cover other aspects which will also lead to an improvement in these terrible numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u57	I signed the motion, but I'd still like to get a confirmation here. This motion does not rule on abortion, although I know that Mr Schalk is very committed to the unborn child. This is a ruling to ask the government to investigate the high incidence and repetition of abortions. I can see that, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u58	Mr Kox does indeed see that in the right way. I have tried once and again to make clear what is going on here. 30,000 abortions take place every year. I have asked the government twice over the last few years how that is indicated and so on. I actually hear every time: listen, this is in the law and that is done carefully. Eventually, it's about emergencies. Now it is not my group that has carried out an investigation, but simply by the Health Inspectorate. It says that 30% has been repeated. I think that is a very nasty word in this respect, but that is what it says in those documents. I deliberately call it repeats of pregnancy breaks. We should at least examine that 30%. That is indeed the intention and that is separate from my ideas about abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u59	Thank you. That's clearly true. Mr Schalk is always very concerned about unborn children. I am certainly counting on his support for the care of the born children, on which there is another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u60	I also have a lot of concerns about born children, so don't worry about that. Madam President. Finally. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats recognizes the pain suffered by various political groups in the composition of this cabinet and in this coalition agreement. This also includes respect for the responsibility that is being taken. The four coalition parties are confident. It is important to build that trust, including to other parties. The SGP has an open attitude in this regard, especially since that trust does not need to be confined to a government agreement between different parties or in a cabinet. I explained it yesterday: our trust is greater and deeper. In this context, I think the King's final sentence on Prince's Day is wonderful: "You may be supported by the realization that many wish you wisdom and pray with me for strength and God's blessing for you." I would like to say amen to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u61	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel. You also have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u62	We're gonna find support, the Prime Minister said in the first round. 50PLUS would like to know what to talk about. What does the Cabinet have to offer? Is it possible to postpone and abolish the Hills Act? In this context, I have also mentioned the purchasing power, the 16.5% ABP deficit, the measures to achieve indexation of pensions and the slowing down of the accelerated increase in the AOW age. If we are to talk about one or more of these issues, we are to ask the Prime Minister once again. I'm going into the latter, the AOW age. In view of the very broad social resistance, we want to know whether we want to reconsider the accelerated increase, especially for the heavy professions. Otherwise we must not complain about the widening gap with the electorate. Then there's a strange case, Mr. Chairman. The consultative referendum exists. But then it is very strange that voters should not be allowed to say whether they want to keep it or not. This means that the last piece of citizen participation, led by the Dafne Schippers of this cabinet, is being taken away in an instant. We do not think that is a good thing. That's unacceptable. We would therefore like to announce in advance that 50PLUS, together with the Dutch Parliamentary Group and the party, will come up with an initiative to enable an advisory referendum to be held against the abolition of the Hillen Act. I see I have a few seconds left. I would like to use it to thank the Cabinet and the Prime Minister for the answers to the questions from the first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u63	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I'm gonna take a look at the Prime Minister. He says he needs ten minutes. Then I'll suspend until 3:00. In the meantime, perhaps the political groups will have some time to reflect. I hear here: that depends on what he says. Okay. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m., but I would like to inform you in advance that before the end of the sitting I shall be heading for 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u64	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the second term of office on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I will answer some questions first, partly from first term, and then respond to a number of motions. I will start with a question from the circle of the VVD. Mrs. Jorritsma asked about the investment ratio. I have gone into it and it is calculated for the armed forces as a whole, so as to be able to make an overall assessment of the investments. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that in some years, such an air force component can attract significantly more investment than any other part of the aircraft. Multi-annually, the weather has to be more or less expendable. That is why this is done for the armed forces as a whole and not separately for the armed forces. Can I say that I was very much in agreement with Mrs Jorritsma's speech on the issue of regulatory pressure and how we, as a government, deal with things? It is also about detachment from people's initiative. In any case, they should be at the centre of our political debates more often, I think. I therefore very much agree with that part of her speech. The PVV has asked about the mediation. This is done by professionally trained mediators, who are strictly selected. The selection will also pay close attention to the prevention of bias and fanatical views. In this respect, there is no risk that other considerations will play a role there. I'm gonna leave her comments on the Corporal at the Department of Defense for a while. I do not really need to deal with these qualifications, nor with the qualifications she has expressed to Mrs Kaag. Mrs Kaag has made herself known in her political and diplomatic career as a person of excellent stature and authority. She shows that again in her first weeks as minister. I consider it an honor to work with her. I found all the qualifications and the false hits on her husband below all levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u66	I didn't use any qualifications at all. I just asked a question about the inequality between the corporal and a foreign partner and the minister. I didn't say anything about qualifications. I even said I wasn't saying the Minister was bad. I only asked for further clarification from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mrs Faber, what you are doing throughout the debate is throwing a handful of sand into clean water and saying that the water is cloudy. So let's just leave it at that. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mrs Faber, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u69	I think the Prime Minister is getting away with this too easily. I do not think that is worthy of a Prime Minister. In fact, he does not dare to explain why we have a minister with a foreign partner, while the corporal can count the pens at Defense, scrub the pavement or possibly lose his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. Then there was another question about the report that her party chief would have made against me. I don't have any further information on that. I assume that it has been reported and is now at the courthouse in The Hague. Having filed that report, the PVV opted for a legal route away from the parliamentary route. I do not therefore feel obliged to answer the political questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u71	But the Prime Minister did say it was under the judge. Then I get the message that he knows more than we do, that the prosecution has actually dealt with it and is going to prosecute it. I don't quite understand that. What is it? Is it in court now, too yes or too no? If not, in fact, you are still free to eliminate the discrimination against Dutch people who have been cleaning the entire laundry list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u72	The term "under the courts" means abstractly that a particular case lies in the legal state column and no longer in politics, and that is a choice made by the PVV. That does not say anything about the exact place where it is in the legal column, because that is not my concern. Then there is the question from the CDA about pensions. Mr Brinkman is indeed right that we are trying to find a solution through a strong discussion between the social partners, which has been going on for a long time, with a lot of advice and explorations, including from the ESC. We also see that the system has become vulnerable. We just need to be real about that. There are changes in the labour market. There's been an increase in life expectancy. There's a falling interest rate. This has been going on since the early 1980s. So the vulnerability is becoming more and more visible. This means that there is still too little or no view of indexes, that the levels of coverage are under pressure and that there are risks of differences between young and old. I understand that Mr Brinkman is asking what my plan B is. Of course, we always keep in mind somewhere in our minds the very small chance that Plan A will not succeed. You think about that, but I really don't want to speculate about it, because, frankly, there is no alternative to plan A. This would mean that, without the social partners, politics would have to intervene in the second pillar, which belongs to the social partners. I therefore urge the social partners to get out with us. I think this should be possible, too. That's it at this point. It was also asked whether the ESC opinion would be available shortly. This will probably come in the first quarter of 2018. That is the expectation, as is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. On 15 December, a letter will be sent to the House of Representatives on the planning of the labour market and pensions. There's also a transcript going to the First Chamber. Let me give you my word on that. Then there was a question from Mrs Barth about low-literacy. The ambition of the cabinet is that every young person leaves education with sufficient linguistic and computational skills. This is why there is also considerable investment in improving the quality of education, in the professionals in front of the classroom and in additional support for children with a language disadvantage, from pre- and early-school education to higher education. That's what we're going to be doing in the next few years. Primary schools receive additional resources to provide additional language teaching to disadvantaged pupils. Secondary schools and schools from practical education, which have relatively many pupils from disadvantaged areas, also receive additional resources. The MBO also makes an effort. For low literacy, the program Tel co-exists with Language. On 24 November, a letter with a progress report was sent to the House of Representatives. In 2016, the leaders of OCW, Social Affairs and VWS jointly started the action programme Tel along with Language, to prevent and tackle low literacy. The commitment is to further bring together the strong efforts of the municipalities and their partners and the learning desks. This has contributed to the fact that more than 46,000 adults have started language training since the beginning of 2016 and that more than 676,000 children have been reached with reading promotion activities. In addition, the expectations of the programme have been considerably exceeded. Since so many more low-literate people still need to be reached, it is now up to us to move forward. It's gonna take extra money. When completing the program Tel join Taal we send a final report. I'll send it to the First Chamber, too. Then we will also have a debate on the continuation of the approach to low-literacy and the promotion of reading. Then there is the question of the capacity and effectiveness of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The investments in the police can lead to more cases, more work, for the rest of the chain, for example in the field of cybercrime. Through an investigation that starts in 2018, the precise effects of the investments with the police will be examined for the rest of the chain. On the basis of that study, it will be determined how these effects will be met. For example, if this would lead to more cases in the field of cybercrime, there should also be sufficient officers or judges in the field of cybercrime to deal with cases, using resources made available under the coalition agreement. Think of the post Reinforcement capacity criminal justice chain. With these resources, these officers are attracted and also trained if necessary. Ultimately, the goal is to work efficiently throughout the chain. Then there is the question of improving ICT systems and the quality of communication and transfer between police, prosecutor and judiciary. On the administrative chain council of the criminal justice chain, the Lower House was informed on 28 June of this year. As part of the ambition path, the development of supply chain information has been identified as one of the priorities. In the first half of 2018, the precise objectives and priorities in the area will be presented to the Cabinet for decision-making. This means that at that time the funds made available under the coalition agreement will also be made available for this purpose. Think, for example, of the digitisation of the work processes. The House of Representatives, and in view of the question that has been asked here, will be informed further in the first half of 2018. Then there is the question of the development of the number of community service sentences imposed and carried out. In 2016, 28% of the crimes were community serviced, compared with 27% in 2015. In the case of infringements, the percentage remained the same by 4% the previous year. The percentage of successfully completed community service was 74% in 2016 compared to 75% in the year before and the remaining cases were submitted to a public prosecutor for assessment. Eventually 93% of community service sentences will be executed within 24 months of imposition. This means that the community service is completed or converted into a replacement detention. Finally, in the area of justice, Mrs Barth asked about the absenteeism, the progress and the new developments at the Office and the judiciary. The absenteeism within the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently 5%, which is the state of October 2017. At the end of October, staffing was 4,972 full-time equivalent 3.6% higher than at the beginning of 2017. In 2016, absenteeism in the judiciary was on average 3.4% for judges, with support staff at 5.8%. These figures are slightly higher than average for comparable other functions. Many vacancies have been opened up and many judges have started training in the meantime. This additional capacity can be acquired thanks to funds that have become available for professional standards in the Price Agreement 2017-2019. The case-law expects that with the new build-up next year the need for additional capacity will be met. In response to Mrs Barth's various questions on justice, among others, some of them from the first term. Then Mrs Barth also asked, just in the second term, for a letter on coordination, etc. direction on the first line. It stressed the importance of cooperation in the first line, bringing parties together as general practitioners, municipalities, GGZ providers etc. and how to do so. She asked for a letter. And although she is absolutely right that I am not a great fan of sending letters, I am going to kneel here and I can promise that my colleagues from VWS are going to send such a letter. Then Mrs Strik on the participation effects of the various measures in the government agreement on, for example, pay dispensation and WSW. May I say that there are a number of important considerations and principles to be taken into account here? It only applies to new cases, not to existing ones; the cabinet wants it to pay off. We want the employer to be cared for, in beautiful Dutch, so that employers are actually going to hire the people. And the cabinet will continue to shape the scheme together with partners such as municipalities, Cedris, the unions and employers. Of course, Mrs Strik's question about participation effects is very relevant. I shall come back to the motions in a moment, because one of the motions is about that. Then I'm gonna go into it, but this first thing. Mr De Graaf van D66's question on the differentiated approach to experimental weed cultivation. The Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Medical Care are currently designing these weed cultivation experiments. They prepare the laws and regulations and are in conversation with fellow governments like mayors. Can I say that we include Mr De Graaf's suggestion and also consider how this relates to the precise arrangements made in the formation? I can't really see that right now, but that's what we're gonna get involved in. So I can't promise now that we will do that, but I can assure you that we will involve this in the deliberations and then wait for the outcome of those talks. Then there is Mr Kuiper's question about the EUR 1.5 billion investment. We are still away from NATO's 2% standard, aren't we? An important step is, of course, being taken, but we are not yet there. However, in accordance with the commitments made in Wales in 2014, we want to work towards them step by step. And this is such a big step towards 2%. So we will always have to look at what is needed and what is possible. But this significant increase now allows the armed forces to restore readiness and initiate the necessary replacement investments. In view of the budgetary system, I cannot, of course, make any commitments now about how we will deal with future windfalls, but, as I said in the first term, it is, of course, the cabinet's ambition to work step by step towards that 2%. But it may just be that if there is financial space, there are others who say: although that is not a fixed budget standard, I do have a few wishes. I am not looking at anyone in particular... That will of course always be a political balance in the coalition, including with the four parties. My guess is that we can always work that out. A question from Mr Kuiper was also about the role of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations with regard to inspections and the search for links with our fellow countrymen. I'd like to come back to this. For more connection between the citizen and the government, we invest as a cabinet in professionals working in the government. It is important that the government has the space and resources to serve the citizen in a professional way and that it has the human dimension as a guide. For my part, this is the responsibility of every trade minister and of the local authorities. That is why we can read so much about this in the various places in the coalition agreement. But I admit that it is in many different places and not yet in conjunction. That is why we do not have one national inspection or one national supervisory authority. How's it gonna work? My suspicion is true: the Minister of BZK has the coordinating system responsibilities, but ultimately, of course, the executive services of all ministries, including inspections and local authorities, will have to do this. It is therefore also important to discuss this regularly, not only with me, but also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and with the trade ministers, and to do so in provinces and municipalities. I would also point out that the cabinet response to the advice of the WRR Weten has not yet been done, which is being worked on by the cabinet. These issues will also be addressed. I say to Mr Kuiper that we will take this part of the debate into account in the cabinet response. I can promise that response by January next. So this one is quickly available. Then the Party for Animals: to hold everyone responsible for the emissions. "The polluter pays," was the simple thought of this spokesperson. Of course, that sounds sympathetic in itself. We have in Europe a pricing system for CO, the ETS. We are adding a minimum price for CO in the electricity sector. The energy tax and the ODE are in principle linked to consumption, i.e. indirectly to emissions, but there is no direct relationship. We choose to create a level playing field for our companies. These levies are not intended to tax consumption, but ultimately to ensure that the revenue needed to implement sensible environmental and climate policies is actually generated. Then also from Mr Koffeman of the Party for Animals the question... No, excuse, I have already answered it. In my view, I am through answering the questions and getting to the motions. Mrs Faber's first motion, on letter B, I would advise against. I would also advise against Mrs Faber's second motion on letter C, also with reference to what I said in the first term. There is no indication that halal products are being used in the Netherlands to finance terrorist organisations. Then I'll get to the third motion. This concerns a reduction target and the ESC opinion on this subject. This motion by Mr Kox to letter D deals with an important subject. Poverty must be fought, especially among children. That's gotta be the focus of everything. Much attention is paid to this. We saw the SER recommendation in March, that of the College of Human Rights in the summer and now that of the Children's Ombudsman. There is also a great deal of attention in the Chamber. A motion in the House of Representatives has already been widely adopted on the same reduction target. As the interruption debate rightly points out, there is still a lot of discussion about the recommendations, because it is decentralised policy. The same applies to the money flows. There are many target groups: parents in welfare, parents with small jobs. In addition, we have all the accompanying policies, from debt relief to people's work. The Secretary of State sends a response to the ESC, with a constructive attitude towards all recommendations and includes the advice of the Kinderombudsman. Having said all that, I would like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I am a little less enthusiastic about the next motion, which is on letter E and also on Mr Kox, because we, as the only NATO Member State, have been involved in negotiating a nuclear ban Treaty from the beginning to the end. We have always set out our conditions. This also has to do with the obligations arising from our NATO membership. In the end, the previous cabinet also explained in a letter why the final result is not compatible with that condition. That means that what the motion is asking for is really in breach of our obligations. So I really need to dissuade that motion. I don't know if that letter was sent to the First Chamber at the time. That usually happens; I send everything in a copy to the First Chamber, but we can check it out. In any case, a letter was sent to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u73	The Prime Minister says the motion is contrary to our NATO membership. The Prime Minister is also aware that, for example, the Italian Parliament has adopted a similar motion to ask the government to look into it very carefully. How can the coalition agreement state that we are striving for a nuclear-free world, 'active', even in the coalition agreement, and that a treaty that is committed to helping those nuclear weapons out of the world would, by definition, be a priori contrary to our obligations in the NATO alliance? The question is: find that out really well and debate it with this Chamber because I see that the government policy is to get the nuclear weapons out of the world. Then we'll have to do something, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u74	I understand the question, but as I said in the first term: one of the problems with the Nuclear Ban Treaty is that we cannot do business with nuclear weapons countries. Well, there are three people in NATO who have that openly; those are France, the United Kingdom and the United States. That's what makes it complicated. The second is that we are very concerned about the verification. No country that has nuclear weapons participates in the Nuclear Ban Treaty. We have all explained this in a letter. Perhaps Mr Kox will be able to hold the motion. Then we can send that letter, if it did not land here, to the First Chamber in a copy. Mr Kox may then decide whether to put the motion to the vote. Perhaps I can make this procedural suggestion. I believe that this letter addresses all the questions that Mr Kox wants answered with this motion. That would be my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u75	That means, Mr President, that if we get that letter, then at least I do not know him that we can look at it and then we will talk about it. It is not so: read the letter and you will know that we are right. Then we'll talk about it, too. I am, of course, dependent on the co-subscribers, but under that condition, I would be happy to accept your suggestion that this motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u76	That "and then we talk about it" is perhaps better to do with the Foreign and Defence Ministers. That's how I keep the agenda manageable. But of course, I'm always available if you want me to come myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u77	At the request of Mr Kox, I propose that his motion be retained (34775, letter E). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u78	Then I come to the motion on the VAT increase. There too a procedural answer, but also a hard answer if we cannot get out of it in a procedural manner. The problem here is that a great deal has already been said about the substance, namely that Mrs Barth's whole speech really only highlights one aspect, the increase in VAT and not cohesion, and that she then wants that aspect to be examined in isolation. Without repeating that whole debate, I could imagine the following. This comes back to the General Financial Reviews with the Directors of Finance. Legislation will then also be drawn up. The consequences will also be discussed; I have said this before. Then I could imagine Mrs Barth holding the motion, at least until the AFB, and perhaps even until the bill. If it does not want to do so and if it wants to put the motion to the vote today, then my intrusive advice is to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u79	I am happy to hold the motion until the financial considerations next week, because that is where the motion belongs. I find it a little more complicated to stick to the legislation, because the outcome of such an impact analysis is important information for us when assessing the legislative proposal. So then the motion will actually become superfluous for us and I would regret that. I understand very well how the Prime Minister sees the VAT increase in the context of purchasing power as part of a package. But we have tried to approach this not only from the point of view of what it means for purchasing power, but also from the point of view of where purchasing power should fall, so where people are going to spend their money, the supplier side. We would like to take the impact of this into account in the assessment of the legislative proposals. So I'd like to leave it until the AFB next week, but then I hope the Prime Minister is also willing to understand that we would like to include the information of such an impact analysis in the assessment of the final bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u80	I think it's going to be a repeat of next week and I'm afraid it's going to be a dissuade too, but let's just extend this moment for us just because I think I gave that impact analysis here. Indeed, if you reduce the burden by increasing more than VAT, this will lead to more spending in shops. That's a simple one; people just have more to spend. I gave the example of the CPB study from 2000. Anyway, we're gonna redo the first term. It is perhaps best to leave it to the AFB for a while, but to prepare ourselves for a sad outcome that we do not agree. Then the First Chamber must decide what it will ultimately do with the motion. That's obvious. We shall then take due note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u81	At Mrs Barth's request, I propose that her motion be retained (34775, letter F). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u82	Then there is Mrs Strik's motion with letter G on the evaluation. It's about the Wajong. The introduction of the Participation Act in 2015 has been decided to reduce 5%. It is about Wajongers who, after reclassification, appear to have work power. We can encourage young people to get to work. Then there must be a chance at work and therefore there is additional support from the UWV. A job appointment has been made, and at the beginning of next year there will be a policy review of Wajong, so that we can see the possibilities for improvement to stimulate work from the Wajong. In the coalition agreement of this cabinet, there are two things going on. One: introducing more incentives in disability schemes towards work and increasing the chances of finding a job for WIA beneficiaries and thereby reducing the use of the WIA. Two: to replace the labour cost subsidy in the Participation Act with a pay dispensation for new cases and to use the resources it provides to finance the already mentioned 20,000 additional sheltered job places. That is the core of this coalition agreement for these two routes: the WIA and the wage dispensation, combined with those places of sheltered work. The timing is that both routes will have the greatest effect from 2020/2021. For the additional sheltered workplaces, 15 million will be available in 2019, 42 million in 2020 and 69 million in 2021. It builds up, and it takes time. That also makes sense, because it has to be done carefully. In both cases, of course, we also involve both Chambers in the legislative process. Each legislative process also includes consultations for all stakeholders, including Cedris, the social services umbrella. Both pathways will include evaluation provisions. I think that's a long way to go. I told you in the first term. Then I can still imagine that it might be interesting to look at the measures in conjunction with each other. This may also be useful for a forthcoming cabinet. But that could only happen in a number of years, for example in the year 2025, because you simply don't have any measurable data before. It does not seem to me to be something the cabinet itself should do. That's gonna have to pick up an outside party. Having said all that, I would like to advise against the motion as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u83	The motion calls for two things: monitoring income development and participation development. The Prime Minister was just focusing on promoting participation in the labour market. In fact, income policy is used here as an instrument to promote labour market participation. That is exactly what we want to monitor: what does it mean for income and what does it mean for employment? The Prime Minister states that the sheltered workplaces will not be introduced until after 2020. My question is what is going on with this wage bill subsidy? Is it going to be abolished or is it going to be abolished immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u84	I just sketched that; it builds up. This is also a gradual process. It only applies to new cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u85	So these income effects don't happen right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u87	Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is an option to be included in the motion: three years after the legislative proposal enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u88	That's what I just said: you're on 2025. We can do that, can't we? Then it's useful. I imagine that's what a next cabinet wants to know. I don't think it's wrong at all, not even that connection. I think your request makes sense, only the timing is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u89	We are concerned with the overall picture. If the other proposers approve of the motion 'three years after the introduction of the legislative proposals', I see broad support from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u90	That'll be 2024/2025. Perhaps then the best wording would be "three years after introduction." This leaves the year in the middle. Is that right? At the Lower House the motion will then be changed. Is that oral in here? Yeah? Things are much more practical here, very good. Then the motion does not have to be distributed again, nicely. Then there is Mrs Strik's motion with letter H for a package of measures to reduce CO emissions to 49% in the short term. The cabinet will make a plan for this in the short term. The cabinet will also consult with co-governments, business and other stakeholders. The Minister for Economic Affairs will shortly inform the Chambers of the above elements. We can live with this motion and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then there is the motion to letter I by Mr Schalk. As stated in the first term, the Law on Abruption pregnancy is evaluated. My proposal would be that this question should really be included in that evaluation. Your preference is a separate investigation. If you'll allow us to find the most appropriate form, I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Is that how we can get together? We leave the cabinet room to find the most appropriate form. Then I can live with judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u91	I agree with the Prime Minister's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u92	Thank you very much. Mr President, perhaps one last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u93	May I ask one more thing about the motion on letter G of Mr Strik on measures to improve the employment rate? Is it now: is the government asking for an evaluation to be carried out in up to three years after its introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u95	Three years after introduction an evaluation. And the Prime Minister leaves the motion to judge Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u96	He supports the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u97	No, we can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u98	You support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u99	Yeah, we're gonna take her or what's that called? I know...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u100	Ah, you're taking her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u101	On the other side, they've all changed it, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you did, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u102	No, I just changed it with the pen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u103	No, but the government's advice has also changed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u104	Oh, no, but we don't do that. We're doing it very simple. You're either in favour of the motion or you're not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u105	The point is that there is one consideration that we are not happy with, but we can accept the operative part as amended. The operative part is therefore acceptable, but I would like to add that you are also interpreting the motion together that this does not mean that the government is happy with all the considerations. But I think Mrs Strik will be fine with that as long as the operative part leads to agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u106	Okay, the operative part is okay, with the words "three years after introduction," and you're taking over the motion. That's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u107	Mr President, I think those were the motions and the questions. I began my reply this morning with the remark that no easy gifts are given away in this house. At the end of the debate, I can see that, apart from the lunch I received, that assessment was entirely correct. And that's the way it's supposed to be. We have had a good and solid debate, substantive and contemplative. That actually fits into the house of reflection. I have also made a number of commitments, with which we can work politically. With the motions we can proceed with you to business. Politics is a conversation that never ends and never ends, perhaps also because the country is never finished. Mr Brinkman paraphrased in his first term the motto of William of Orange and Queen Wilhelmina quietly in the midst of turbulent births when he spoke of the United Kingdom as restless in Europe. Mr Brinkman, judging the situation, expressed great appreciation for calm and contemplativeness in the political debate. I fully endorse the need to do so, starting in our beautiful country. Listening to each other, being willing to settle occasionally and looking for the sensible compromise over and over again: it is perhaps more important than ever in current political relations and this cabinet is more than completely aware of that. You may know, Mr President, that that motto is the symbol of the little icebird, which, according to tradition, may have its nest on the most turbulent births. And now I don't want to push the metaphor too far, but keep that image of peace in a restless and for many people uncertain time, so close to the start of this cabinet, appeals to me greatly. It's a beautiful and responsible assignment. We draw extra hope from this debate that we can also carry out this task as a cabinet, together with the Lower House and the First Chamber, and together with all the social parties in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Prime Minister. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, there's a knocking on the benches! Yes, nod!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-eerstekamer-6.u109	We have come to the end of the debate, but we are about to vote. Motions have been scattered a long time. I'll take a look around the room. I see someone raise their hand for five minutes of suspension. Can anyone live with that? Okay, then we'll suspend for five minutes.
