ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and all those present. I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf as the first speaker. Speaking time is set at two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in its contribution to the modernisation and simplification of the common agricultural policy (28625, No. 242) to make it crystal clear that this is a position of the Dutch Demissionary Cabinet and that, therefore, the whole contribution is subject to a strict parliamentary reservation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28625-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's good, Madam President. Let me give you a brief explanation. There is a contribution from the Secretary of State to the common agricultural policy. We have had a substantive discussion on this in the form of written consultations. There are quite a few differences on the left and on the right. I think there are several majorities that differ from the State Secretary's input. Given the status of the cabinet, we thought it appropriate to make this reservation clear in Brussels as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Let me now give the floor... No one? No, I didn't. Then I give the floor to the Minister. Looks like he can react instantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time I've been referred to as "no one." That's all I need to know. The motion states that there should be a strict parliamentary reservation. A parliamentary reservation may be dealt with in EU legislation. This is not EU legislation, it is consultation. As part of the consultation on this subject, Parliament expressed its views in the written consultation with the Chamber. Nor is it necessary to point out to the European Commission that the Dutch cabinet is decommissioned. It is used to this kind of situation, because the change in Cabinets in other countries is generally much more frequent than the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, after four and a half years, the cabinet is also outgoing and this is well known to the European Commission. However, there is broad agreement on the direction of the future common agricultural policy, where political groups place different emphasis on the subject, also in line with the discussions on the common agricultural policy which have often been held in the Chamber in the past. The contribution that the cabinet now believes should be sent to the European Commission is in line with that. This will be a recognizable Dutch response for the European Commission and the other Member States. I expect them to take note of this with interest. It would be a pity to make a full Dutch contribution at this time. Nor is it necessary to express this parliamentary reservation, which is only dealt with by legislation and not by consultation. We are at the beginning of the process. According to the current planning, a new common agricultural policy will enter into force in 2021 at the earliest. In the meantime, there are still European elections. There will be a new European Commission. It is therefore not unrealistic to take into account that it will be slightly later than 2021. This means that there will still be plenty of room for communication from the Netherlands towards Europe. This can then be done on the basis of a discussion on the common agricultural policy which will take place before the summer recess with the Chamber, on the basis of a document which we will present to the Chamber. After that, the next executive will also have many opportunities before, we expect, legislative proposals from the Commission on this issue will be made in 2018. Then there will also be input from the Netherlands, in consultation with the Chamber. So I do not think it is right to pronounce the motion as it has now been formulated as a Chamber. That is why I am free to discourage this motion from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	A recognizable input from the minister. I wouldn't have expected him to do otherwise, given the past. The Minister says that there is agreement with the Chamber on very important points. That's exactly what I'm questioning. Think of such an element as direct income support. The Secretary of State says that this better disappears and that we should focus on innovation and sustainability. A lot of parties in the Chamber feel differently about that. I'm just referring to the adopted Lodders c.s. motion. (21501-32, No. 666), which calls for this to be included in the first pillar. However, we do not need to have this substantive discussion here. I did not put forward any substantive motion on purpose either, because we will then have a very different discussion. Given the status of the cabinet and the importance of the subject, I think it is important to maintain this motion. We're going to see what happens in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Dijkgraaf's summary of the cabinet's position is too short. The cabinet believes that the proper functioning of the market is the way to achieve what we consider important in terms of sustainability and food supply, in a way that allows farmers to make the most of their entrepreneurial qualities. The Netherlands is strong in this respect. So, as Mr Dijkgraaf put it, it is too short. From the input delivered at this point, it is clear that the main line of the Dutch effort is shared. I also think that it has been put into this consultation in a non-confrontatory way. Parliamentary reservations are only dealt with in EU legislation. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to express such a reservation during a consultation, especially since this ultimately leads to the Dutch contribution being weaker than desired. In addition, there are still many possibilities to provide follow-up from the Chamber, from the cabinet to Europe, for a policy change that will not apply until the year 2021 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Minister says that a parliamentary reservation is linked only to legislation. We have had many debates in this house in recent years with this cabinet about the euro crisis, support for Greece and so on. Almost every time, the Finance Minister went to Brussels with a parliamentary reservation, while it was simply a substantive discussion. In these cases too, it is therefore a customary instrument, which has also been used by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is good to put the points on the i once in a while. A parliamentary reservation is an instrument that may apply to EU legislation. In consultation, there is no strict parliamentary reservation as expressed here. A parliamentary reservation is really an instrument that you are using at another time. The Chamber can, of course, give its opinion at any time in the form it wishes. That is why I went into the substance of the matter and said that I do not think it would be desirable to weaken the Dutch contribution, as would ultimately be the result of this ruling being made by the Chamber. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	The motion tabled will be put to the vote today.
