ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs, the people in the public gallery, the Members of Parliament and the other Members present. Mrs Van Tongeren is the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks and the speaking time is five minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Meters pieces on the natural gas file; so a lot of paper, but in the meantime no solutions. Meanwhile, school children in the earthquake area are not safe in their schools, people are not safe in their homes and in other buildings and precious cultural heritage is permanently damaged. But the cracks are not only in the buildings, because of the attitude of the NCG, the NAM and the government there are also deep cracks in and between people. This is a quote from the press release of the Groninger Soil Movement that everyone here will recognize. The reason for this debate was for me the news that the NAM from the Loppersum cluster had won 1 billion cuub gas. On 18 November 2015, the Council of State ruled that the extraction of gas from those production sites was only allowed to keep these locations open. Can the Minister explain to me how he feels that he has carried out the judgment of the Council of State or has involved himself in his decisions? Would the Minister give me an undertaking that extraction from the Loppersum cluster will be stopped, except for the absolute minimum flame level? The Research Council for Security came up with an update of the previous report from 2015, in which the Research Council said citizens should be safe and feel safe in their daily living environment. At the time, the Minister said he was going to implement the recommendations of the Research Council. The Research Council concludes that a great deal has happened and been done, but that the five recommendations of that time have not yet been fully implemented. Is the Minister prepared to launch the full implementation of these five recommendations, so that the recommendations contained in the original OVV report are fully implemented? We received a message from the Minister that as of 1 October 2017, gas extraction from 24 to 21.6 billion cubic metres is possible. In 2016 we received an extensive study from the Gasunie, which gave an overview of the necessary gas extraction in the years 2017-2020. This shows that the Gasunie is unable to predict gas demand at all times, while the Minister always uses security of supply as an argument. My questions are: why can't extraction go down by 1 October? If there is a warmer winter then on average can there be less win? How do we get reliable figures? Unless the Minister can explain to me that both the Minister's decision now and the Gasunie's assessments, GTS, are correct, I am curious to see what is happening. We need reliable figures if we are to rely on security of supply as an argument for the amount of gas to be extracted. Then there's the damage settlement. As I said in 2014, this does not help us now that the Safe Living Centre would not provide the solution. The Center Safe Living, I said, is not separate from the NAM and the NAM hangs on the strings of the Shell. The Groninger Soil Movement and others have made clear in their recent letters where the problems lie. It looked like the minister gave the results before the game was played. The minister now says he's giving room for discussion in Groningen. So is any other solution acceptable, and should it not necessarily be an independent committee that decides this decision and does not need to be consulted every 14 days on the damage with the NAM? Are proposals from, for example, the Vereniging Eigen Huis or from Prof. Reurt Gisolf, who is considering how to use the law on mass harm claims, also acceptable? Is the Minister prepared to ensure, whatever damage protocol it becomes, that such a protocol is in line with Dutch law? So is there going to be a legal test on such a protocol to see if it complies with Dutch law, for example by the advisory department of the Supreme Court or the President of the Amsterdam Court? Is the Minister prepared to look at the following? A lot of research is being used to reject claims in the so-called outlying areas. Can we ensure that this research has been peer-reviewed and therefore scientifically validated and that the relevant NEN and ISO standards, for example ISO 4866... are clearly involved? At the moment, it's not. Is research an opinion or is research really scientifically validated? My final question is what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the amendment by Mr Van Tongeren, which has been put aside for legal assistance in Groningen. I understand that now that we are almost in May we have not yet spent a penny. If that's the case, maybe that money could go to the Foundation Law for Groningen, for example? Will the Minister ask the shareholders of the Safe Living Centre if they would like to spend 1 million out of the 2 million profits they made with the Safe Living Centre on Groningen, for example, on the Foundation for the Law of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group. Mrs. Beckerman is having her maiden speech. That means she can't be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I find it very painful to see how much is being destroyed in my province. It's hard for me not to hate politics so much. It's the multinationals Shell and Exxon, aka the NAM, who pump up the gas and cause the damage, but it's the politics that makes it happen. It's the politics that makes it happen that Hanneke's dream house was demolished from 33 to the ground, the house where she married and had children. Two years ago, she heard she needed to be demolished at home. Two years of fighting followed: with the NAM and with the Centre Safe Living. Appointments aren't kept, promises aren't kept. Good guidance is missing. Not only has her home been demolished, she's also lost the feeling of being safe, getting rid of the feeling that it's gonna be okay. It's the politics that makes it happen that Annie doesn't know how to proceed. Annie's 68, her husband's 67. They own a residential store in Loppersum. They live above it. The store's broken, sales dropped by 60% since the big quake five years ago. Their pension, for which they have worked their whole lives, is gone. The house has serious damage and at the door there is a briefcase, in case the big blow comes. It is the politics that makes it happen that farmer Nijhoff here in the Lower House distributes his wife's moving card. After 46 years of marriage, they have a latting relationship. That's not because they don't love each other anymore. They love each other - but because they don't dare live in their unsafe home anymore. Restoration of the house requires years of fighting. It's the politics that lets Rosemary of 6 walk through Groningen with a torch. She's protesting the gas extraction. She tells her mother that she had dreamed of having a bedroom with pink wallpaper: Mom, do you think it's possible? It can't be, because every quake creates new cracks. Pink wallpaper is not an option. It should be off every time. Rosemary's school isn't safe. It's the politics that makes it happen that people feel they don't matter anymore. That people have lost control of their own lives. That people don't have solid ground under their feet anymore. That people feel like they've lost their future. If your house is broken, your skin is broken. That's what Kees from Onderdendam says, sitting here in the stands. Lots of Groningers have broken the skin. People get doubly displaced. They're not only losing their homes, they're also losing the feeling that the government is there for them. To the marrow Groningen is sucked out and our right is a vain word. I only have one question: Room, let's do this even longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. You may stand here. Let me suspend for a moment to give colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you on your beautiful maiden speech. I do that first; that is the advantage of being president. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	Let's move on to the debate. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Beckerman on her passionate speech on Groningen. I have, of course, had a number of debates with her in the run-up to the elections and I know how involved she is in this issue. That's good to see. Many Groningers feel unsafe and suffer damage to their homes. The problem is immense. Behind every front door in Groningen this also has more or less consequences. Many Groningers feel at the mercy of a bureaucracy that they do not trust. We saw with each other the increased activity in the Groninger soil and of course we are very concerned with the Groningers. This morning there was another slight earthquake in Groningen, under Loppersum. In his opinion of Tuesday, State surveillance of the Mines says: we do not know why seismicity is rising in Loppersum and therefore production needs to be further reduced. We welcome the fact that the Minister is following this advice. I do have a question for the Minister. Why does he choose not to start the reduction until 1 October and not immediately? In addition to the increased tremors, the most important topic today is the resolution of the damage. The letter from the minister just before the Easter weekend did the Groningers no good. Instead of seeking open and transparent independence in the settlement of damages with a mandate that will enable the people of the region and their representatives to get out of the way, an image emerged that our group certainly does not share. The brief letter that came yesterday afternoon, fortunately, breathes a different atmosphere and offers the possibility of an open dialogue. This open dialogue is very much needed for the perspective of Groningers. The problems of gas extraction are not intended to be moved to the area around Langelo, where there is a gas storage for the benefit of the Groningenveld. Technically, gas storage is also covered by the Groningen gas complex. Our group would consider it logical if the same damage procedure were to apply to the people there, in order to avoid legal inequality in relation to production from this field. What does the Minister think of that? To what extent are the residents of Langelo and the surrounding area involved in changing the storage plan? I also ask the Minister to submit the gas storage plan to the House of Representatives. When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	I would like to know from my colleague in the CDA whether she thinks that the same protocol should apply wherever there is mining damage. Shouldn't there be equality of law for all Dutch people who suffer from mining?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	I have just listened with great attention to GroenLinks' speech. This legal certainty is also an important point for us. I support the line that we need to look at how legal certainty can be secured. Of course, we have said for Groningen separately that we want to make it possible to reverse the burden of proof. This does not apply to the rest of the Netherlands. We think it is important to have a single point of contact where the damage is handled very well. It is not clear to me at the moment exactly how that is arranged. People shouldn't walk up against doors and walls so that they still end up in a swamp. I think GroenLinks and the CDA share that. If we can get that right, we are a long way ahead. But now many people from the rest of the Netherlands are looking at what happens to those Groningers and they think: if I have mining damage, then I am also facing these big companies, and who will help me? I think that we in the House of Representatives really need to pay attention to this. So I share that with the Green Left Group. The CDA had hoped to have a cabinet response to the report of the Research Council for Security today, but we have to note that the Ministry was able to make a press release, but that the letter is still waiting. To what extent does the Minister take over the recommendations of the Research Council? Can he explain this today? Both the State surveillance of the Mines and the Security Research Council, in its supplementary research, say that too little independent research has been done on the extraction of gas in relation to the earthquakes. There has been no independent body to work out the methodology of the seismic threats and the risk maps and therefore to be able to properly control the NAM. There is now only a programme of knowledge which, as far as we can see, is not yet working. The SodM is extremely critical of the NAM: "SodM finds it remarkable that NAM has apparently not been able to propose integrated, more complete and better developed management measures." That is why the SodM has no confidence in the measurement and control protocol that is yet to come. Experts employed by the SodM also say that the quality of the analysis of the NAM is inadequate. The CDA wants certainty that there will be calculations to determine what for and how much extraction, near and near which clusters, is safe for the Groningers. Is the Minister prepared to set up an independent body to advise on the development of seismological models, as the State surveillance of the Mines recommended in 2015? It also remains unclear what is necessary for the security of supply. First that was 42.5 billion cuub, then 35, then 27, then 24 and now more than 21 billion cuub. What is really needed for security of supply? Does the Minister have an answer to that today? On page 7 of his letter, the SodM writes that it is unclear who is in charge of the security of supply and ultimately who is responsible for that security of supply. Of course, the Gasunie came up with calculations before, but has anyone ever heard of GasTerra, which eventually decreases the gas? As a watchdog for safety, the CDA wants the SodM to be involved as part of its role in safety. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? I thought it was a remarkable passage in the letter from the SodM. I would like to make this clear today, because we cannot mess with the safety of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. Earthquakes have left a trail of physical and psychological damage: tears in walls and tears in confidence. So it is very good that before the recess we are talking about the increased number of earthquakes at Loppersum and the new damage protocol. There's nothing to worry about. In order to make good choices about gas extraction, we need independent investigations, about soil and about earthquakes. There's a lot we don't know yet. That one tap, can it or can it not just cause the crack? We don't know yet, and that clarity needs to be established. That's why D66 asked for an independent research institute a long time ago, so we also know that the information is independent. But we see in the letter that no research has yet started and that there is still no comprehensive programme. How can this take so long and when can we see more of that? The earthquakes in Loppersum have increased again, and I think that's what we're all worried about. Well, at least I do. The Minister now reduces production by 10% following the advice of the SodM. We're happy about that, but it also raises questions. The first question concerns security of supply. There seems to be room for this security of supply. Mrs Mulder referred to that earlier. Earlier we heard: this is the minimum we need. In the last letter, 24 billion cube was mentioned as the minimum we need. How did this space develop and what space does the Minister see developing in the coming years? The security of supply for Dutch households is of course important, but if there is room, we need to know. That is why this question is addressed to the Minister. Then there's my second question. Is the Minister sure this will make it safer? Over the years we see more and more evidence for a kind of trade-off between "winning at a higher level and few peaks" and "winning at a lower level and catching peaks." The SodM has also warned about this irregular production before. That is why I ask the Minister how we are going to ensure that we establish this trade-off between as low as possible and as flat as possible. One of the things that is important to know is whether the maximum remains at 30 bcm. Because that would mean you're gonna get 10 bucks if you're gonna win at 20. That is still quite more than the peaks of 6 that we had before at a winning of 24. What does that mean and what is the advice of the SodM on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	Let me check with my colleague from D66. I read in this set of reports from the SodM that they have not yet found any evidence that flat winning actually works. They thought it was going in the right direction at Loppersum at first, you see, this is working, but then suddenly the amount of earthquakes increased again. I read it in such a way that they say, "We thought so, but we have no proof yet. All we know is that you have less chance of earthquakes if you win less." How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'm basing myself on the reports from the SodM. They do say, "We don't know." That means we can't say either one or the other. We'll change strategy now. That's why I'm curious how the Minister took this, because a peak of 10 is really something other than a peak of 6. The field is not a whole now. It's not just about winning flat over the whole thing, but also about where you win. Mrs. Mulder just called it in. If you suddenly win very strong at Langelo because you have to get that whole peak from there, that can be a relatively big peak for that area. The question is whether we are not taking any additional risks. How did the Minister balance these different risks so that we can say to everyone in Groningen: we are all happy with that 10% reduction and we are going to win it in a way that contributes to further strengthening your security. That's what we're all looking for, D66 of course. In doing so, I have already dealt with part of the next question, namely how production in different clusters has been taken into account in achieving the safest possible way of extraction. The supervisor further advises to clarify which party is responsible for determining what can be done for the security of supply. It is not just about the total volume, but also about the capacity. Just like the CDA, D66 wants clarity on this. It would be good if there was an independent test on the information we get from the NAM at that point. My group is in favour of having the SodM take a test on this. I'm coming to the damage settlement. The NAM is now finally no longer part of the damage settlement process. She's really out of it, and it was high time. The Chamber has adopted several motions for resolutions to that effect. I am very pleased that, after several steps at a distance, we have now actually come to an independent damages settlement. The person causing the damage should not be the one who decides what is being compensated. Of course, a new protocol must now be drawn up. It is very important that we take the step of distanceing the damage so that people in Groningen can have confidence in the whole process. It's about your house, so you also want to make sure you can have faith in the process of damages. It is very important that they feel good, and I would just like to say it very simply in relation to the new protocol and the new way in which that process is organized. I'm worried about you. I will first say what my concerns are about; then Mrs Van Tongeren can ask her question on that. The Minister sent the Chamber the contours of a new damages protocol in which, among other things, the second opinion and the arbitrator disappear. The region as a whole raised a number of questions. I share the Minister's view that we must ensure that we do not have an endless reservoir of damage that is currently being filed, but cannot be dealt with because we are developing this new protocol. We're doing this for the people, so we have to make sure they have faith, but not wait six months for someone to finally come and do something about their damage. The new damage protocol must be an open process, in which the region can participate and decide on the implementation of that new protocol. The advisory committee has also highlighted a number of very important issues. I think it is very important that they are taken away. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. My final question is whether the Minister can give an update on the buy-back scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	Of course, these are all very sensible questions from D66, but damage is also about who pays. I too am glad that it now seems that the NAM is outside the damage settlement process, but how does Mrs Van Veldhoven see that the NAM is required, kindly asked or encouraged to pay for those damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	Whoever causes the damage must pay for the damage. That seems to me to be a very simple issue. That should also apply to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Van Veldhoven said she was pleased that the NAM is now out of the process, but I think that together we have questions for this minister. Maybe the NAM is from a piece of the process, but in what way is the NAM required to pay? I don't think the NAM is really out of the damage process yet. I would like to hear whether Mrs Van Veldhoven agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	The NAM must continue to pay the damage, but it must determine from the process of determining what damages will be paid. That has to be done by an independent expert looking at what happened, at the house and at the damage, so that people don't think the person who pays the damage looks at his own wallet. No, we need to look at the situation of the people in Groningen. That is why the process needs to be redesigned, but of course the NAM continues to hold its responsibilities. That responsibility is not lost because the NAM comes at a distance. The responsibility lies with the NAM and we will leave it there for the financial damage. Let me use my last seconds to finish. I was just saying to the Minister: I think this is about the 125th debate we are having together. It's also learning at doing, but let's keep working together to see what we can do for the people in the area. That is why my group takes the signals coming from the region itself very seriously. We do it for them, so let's make sure we do it with them. I would like to call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u17	I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS. Mrs. Sazias is having her maiden speech. It must therefore not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. I'm proud to be standing here. Thanks to a surgeon who took trouble out of my body, but mostly thanks to the 50PLUS voters. I am grateful for their trust and I would never want to embarrass it. We are talking here today about the increased earthquakes in Groningen and what we need to do about it. Yes, so it is possible, given the Minister's decision to reduce production by 10%. You'd think, "Why couldn't you do that sooner?" It is a response to the reporting and advice of State surveillance of the Mines. What 50PLUS has difficulty with is that this report raises more questions than it answers. The findings are worrying and especially fuzzy. According to the opinion, the earthquakes are not clearly linked to specific production operations and therefore the proposal of risk management measures is not made easier. Well, that's not gonna do us any good. According to the opinion, the NAM has also not been able to establish a link between the increased earthquakes and the way in which the field is operated. Thus, the NAM has not been able to propose detailed management measures. Finally, there is no answer to the question of whether there is an operational reason for the so-called return of the earthquakes. In short, this report says: we do not know. We do not know exactly what tinkering of production is doing and whether it will soon bring us back to the next critical seismic limit values. But it is a good thing that the Minister, under these worrying circumstances, opts for a significant 10% reduction in gas extraction. 50PLUS likes that 10%. We see this as a step in the right direction. We already know that we have to get rid of the use of fossil fuels. We have signed the climate agreement, but the corresponding measures are far too slow. Let this reduction be the momentum of the change, the first step towards as much renewable energy as possible at the lowest possible rate. Let's have a chance of this problem! What 50PLUS demands from this minister and from a new cabinet is a total phasing-out plan for gas extraction with clear steps and intermediate steps. And of course we have to take into account all interests, including security of supply and export contracts, but somewhere we have to make a point. The precautionary principle, the safety of citizens and the environment, must be at the forefront. Such a phasing-out plan certainly includes a transition to natural gas-free construction. Housing corporations, project developers and private individuals should be encouraged to do so. At the same time, we need to answer the question of how to strengthen the Groningen houses, the buildings, but also the soil. We need to hurry that up now. The confidence of the Groningen people is completely gone. We have heard the poignant examples of Mrs Beckerman. There's a lot more like that. Your home is your safest environment. Can you imagine, Mr. Chairman, what it does to you when you have to sleep with your family in a house that you're not sure is resistant to another quake? This harms the mental state and the health of people and children. There are 30,000 children living in the earthquake area. The harmful influence for these children still needs to be investigated, the Kinderombudsman thinks. We totally agree with her. A few important steps have already been taken, but the whole process needs to be further intensified and accelerated. There must be an independent, generous resolution of damage, including emotional damage. The Ombudsman mentions six recommendations in his letter. Can the Minister, by recommendation, tell us what he's gonna do with it? We also hope that the Minister will give an in-depth answer to the suggestion that an integrated phasing-out plan for gas extraction should be drawn up as soon as possible. Our 50PLUS department in Groningen talks about phasing out in twelve years. What does the Minister think about the feasibility of this deadline? This is about the redemption of a debt of honor. The whole of the Netherlands benefited from gas. Restore the foundation of confidence of the Groningen people, take them seriously and let's look ahead in particular. Search with us as a room for a cleaner and safer energy supply, and thus for a future without fossil fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you for your maiden speech. I'm gonna suspend the sitting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u20	It's nice to see all those colleagues here to congratulate you. Usually it's a one-time thing; then you have to do it yourself. Enjoy. We are now going to listen to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. Groningen, you'll live there. Houses sagging, walls tearing, facades getting stubbed. Then the question is why. The NAM knows that: Groningen has a weak bottom. There is a decline in soil and there are varying groundwater levels. And then the houses: built on wrong foundations, with wrong mortar, uneven settings, wrong constructions and overdue maintenance. The environment isn't helping either. Construction work in the neighborhood can cause cracks and freight traffic does. This sounds too ridiculous for words, but it is a selection of the statements that NAM once made to indicate damage to houses and buildings in Groningen. Earthquake damage is not included. In fact, if I read the interview with the NAM director in the Volkskrant of 8 April, the NAM is more likely to be a victim than a cause of the earthquakes. If the newspaper asks if the NAM might have underestimated the problem, the NAM director says: "Underestimate implies a presentation of the future. But it happened to us, too. There was no plan." There was no plan? We're talking about 100,000 damage reports in Groningen, and there was no plan? Although there are long indications that the gas extraction could cause earthquakes, the NAM pretended for years to bleed her nose and deliberately caused doubt. The earthquakes could also be caused by something else. The victims had to prove it was the earthquakes. Good luck with that! The damage caused by the NAM and its ventriloquist doll, the Safe Living Centre, is not easy to repair. Deep, deep wounds have been struck. But the NAM isn't the only player. The role of the Minister for Economic Affairs should certainly not be underestimated, because it is not the NAM but the Minister who determines the levels of gas extraction. The role of the minister was already discussed last week at the hearing with the Research Council for Security, which had already concluded in 2015 that there was too much power at one ministry. The Ministry of EZ is, after all, the guardian of all interests involved in the Groningen gas extraction file: the importance of the security of supply, the financial interest and the interest of residents in the gas extraction area. These totally conflicting interests are all in the hands of one ministry. This leads to uncertainty, conflicts of interest and also to mistrust. It is a bit like an attorney at the same time represents the interests of the offender and the interests of the victim and in many cases is a judge in the same case. That really has to end. That's what the OVV thinks, and that's what the Party for Animals thinks. I ask the Minister to follow the recommendations of the Security Research Council and to make different ministries responsible for the different interests. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Quite a few problems need to be solved: the settlement of damages, the restoration of trust, the security and the future of the Groningen people. The Animal Party once again pleads for a general pardon for the damages. We need to get rid of all these costly and debilitating procedures. Safety still cannot be guaranteed. The fact that the Minister announced this week that he was turning off the gas crane for 10% is a very good step, but that is not the news we are waiting for and what Groningen is waiting for. For the Party for Animals, that 10% must be followed very quickly by a further reduction. The 12 billion cub level is often referred to as a safe level. We need to get there as fast as we can. I would like to get a response from the Minister, because how can the gas extraction level suddenly be reduced, but not before? Other groups have already asked for this. The Party for Animals joins those questions. With regard to the future, Groningen and the whole of the Netherlands long for a vision, a horizon to which we can work and live. Clarify how and when gas extraction can be phased out and at the same time explain how the region can be helped as soon as gas extraction falls. The central question here is how Groningen can contribute to and benefit from a green transition. Is that what we do with solar parks? Do we do that with wind? I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. I come to my closing words. Only by working on all these problems at the same time can confidence be restored. I call it generously compensating for the damage, guaranteeing safety as an independent interest, accelerating the reduction of gas production and working on a vision of the future and on a green transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Sazias and Mrs Beckerman on their maiden speech. They were both passionate. Mrs Sazias has quickly lived in and read in the position of the Groningen. Mrs Beckerman was born and raised there, at least for a long time. I was born and raised in Groningen. We've known each other a long time. She was able to articulate the grief of the Groningen. It also saddens me to see how much misery there is still four and a half years after Huizinge in Groningen. I live there myself. The helplessness and despondency of people are immense. That is what the government and politics must do, and that is what I agree with Mrs Beckerman. I would like to speak in particular today on three points: the reduced gas extraction, the entanglement and the various hats that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has on and the position of man. First of all, I would like to refer to the 10% reduction in gas production. It will take place in the short term. The PvdA Group supports that, but it does have questions about how that 10% was achieved. How can it be that last year 24 billion was necessary for the security of supply in the Netherlands, but it can now be reduced by 10%? It's hard to explain, isn't it? How is it possible that the calculations from which that 10% results are actually based only on investigations of the NAM? Mrs Mulder said a few things about that too. How can the person most interested in a lot of gas extraction carry out the main investigations leading to the decision what is necessary for the security of supply? How can that be so organized? How can we be confident that the 10% deduction still guarantees the security of supply, while it is different a year later? I'm gonna put big and serious questions to the Minister. The second point, which has to do with this, is all the hats that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has eaten. The Security Research Council pointed that out two years ago. The OVV indicates that much has happened, but that much has not happened either. This is the most important thing that hasn't happened. If you are responsible for the safety of the Groningers, the security of supply and the amount of gas that is being extracted, the investment programme in Groningen, the damage handling and the legal protocols and procedures, can all be done under one cap? I think the conclusion should be four and a half years: no, it can't be. You could have expected that. It can't be. That needs to be pulled apart. The independence of the SodM, which is based on reports from the NAM, cannot also be covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For Groningen, more is needed than a National Coordinator who is working very hard to coordinate well. As far as the PvdA is concerned, there must also be a separate responsibility, a kind of delta-planning responsibility, to give the area a fresh perspective. That can't all fall under one department. How does the Minister view this, given how it is now, four and a half years later, with the confidence of the Groningers in the government? The Minister has to charge himself with that. The third point is how things are going in Groningen. It's just not going well. It's really not going well. There are people with small damages who are helped, but there are also people who haven't lived in their own homes for a year, two years or even more than two years. That's serious. They don't even know how to move on, whether their house is being rebuilt, who's gonna pay for it, and how long the procedures are gonna run. A government can't do that to people, but it will, every day. The Chamber broadly agrees on this, these are poignant cases and those people need to be helped quickly. There have been many motions for resolutions and debates on them. I've been with a lot of them. But it hasn't been solved yet. Each of us has been visiting people and we can mention dozens where the misery continues. It can't be. The government can't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u23	I would like to welcome Mr Nijboer as a new spokesman on this dossier. We do know him because he was in many of the debates. I therefore assume that he has participated in many of his group's considerations. On his point on the SodM, the Chamber has made a number of motions. I have never seen support from Mr Nijboer or from the PvdA. Why now suddenly this great turn of events in thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u24	The PvdA Group has always supported the conclusions of the Security Research Council. This was part of that. You can talk about the impact and the question whether SodM should be with EZ or another department, or whether there should be a delta-like approach. These are principles that we support. There have indeed been a lot of motions on how to shape that exactly. One time SodM had to fall under I and M, the other time under Security and Justice and another time it had to be remotely. There have all been considerations as to why this was supported or not supported. However, it is clear to my group that this is no longer the case. It is not often that a group chairman, a list leader and now group chairman, makes excuses and says: we did not do this properly. My group chairman/list leader in Groningen did. Much has not gone well, and you can also charge the PvdA, because we were in the government. I am also attracted to that. By the way, the entire Chamber can count on that, but also the PvdA, because we were in the government. So if you say that we have not done things right in the past, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u25	In my opinion, the most important thing in this debate is that we are trying to take care of the Groningen people in particular. I hope that will also be the tone of the forthcoming debates. However, you just seemed to refer in your input to the specific point that SodM would have to go from EZ to I and M. On that very specific point very specific motions have also been tabled. I understand now that you say that it needs to be more independent, but that can be arranged in a variety of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u26	That's right. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the misery that is now in Groningen and so many people. For example, I also find it poignant that 1,600 houses have been inspected and that the conclusion is drawn that the damage is not caused by the earthquakes. Of course, as a Member of Parliament, I cannot fully oversee this, but there are people who do have damage, sometimes for one or a half tons. They now have a letter and a voucher of €1,500 and that's it. That's not really possible. Those people have to give you some help and perspective, don't they? You can't do that, can you? How is this happening, when everyone here agrees that something needs to be done? I hope and think it is best for the Groningen people that the Chamber should stand as one woman/man behind Groningen. I can tell, and I have seen that in recent times, that different parties are willing to do so. The PvdA is certainly willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mrs. Van Tongeren, the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u28	Like GroenLinks, does the PvdA think that the research, on which so much depends, should be scientifically validated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u29	Sure. Many motions have been tabled and we have supported the motions, which said that the NAM should not do that research and that it should be done scientifically. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of Mr Carla Dik-Faber, who cannot be here because of personal circumstances. There is a worrying increase in earthquakes in the Loppersum region. The cracks in the subsurface appear to be critically tense, according to state surveillance. In other words, there will be more and heavier tremors if gas production is increased. Professor Vlek reported this week that the soil in Noordoost-Groningen is severely weakened. This warning comes on top of the pile of reports, a pile that has been rising ever since 2012. The Christian Union therefore embraces every step towards reducing gas production. But why wasn't this possible before? Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven asked the same question. What has changed in concrete terms in the numerical or model basis, so that we can now do what could not have been done before? What is the concrete change in the models and calculations? And why is the reduction only on 1 October and not immediately? After all, we are going back into the summer months, where security of supply is no problem at all. It's gonna be nice. The extraction at Loppersum had to be stopped from the Council of State, but it was, as it turned out, not completely silent. In 2016 another 1 billion cube was produced for the so-called watch flame. The SodM now concludes that the activation of the clusters in this region is probably the cause of the tremors. Why doesn't the Minister immediately discuss the extraction of gas at Loppersum? The assessment by the SodM of the reporting of the NAM is very worrying. The NAM has not been able to propose more comprehensive and more elaborate management measures. There are doubts about the measurement and control protocol and the NAM has failed to deepen a number of topics sufficiently. How is it possible after five years that investigations and measurements are not carried out independently and not completely? What's the Minister gonna do about this? Then I'll come to damage handling and strengthening. The residents would be number one, but there is still no question of that after five years. The criticism piles up, from the OVV, the Independent Councilman and the Ombudsman, even now that the Minister finally recognises that the damage settlement must take place independently of the NAM. The Groninger Bottom Movement and the Groninger Gasberaad have now left the consultation. They ran into a wall, and 15 minutes ago, RTV Noord announced that the D.A. should investigate the earthquake damage caused by the gas extraction. The breach of trust is complete with that. They do not see the agreements made on damages settlement in last week's letter and have lost confidence. Is the new letter of 19 April going to restore that confidence? Can the Minister respond to that? And how does he intend to restore that confidence so that these parties can move back to the table? Why did he ignore the advice, for example to maintain arbitration and counter-expertises? Why is there no link between damage handling and housing reinforcement? We only know at the end of this year how the additional costs of strengthening will be reimbursed. That's way too late, isn't it? There is still no compensation for mining damage outside the quake area. There is a new method based on a test, but the result of this test was that of the 33.048 damage assessed, exactly 0 were related to mining activities. There will now be a €1,500 construction voucher for all claims, while it will not be called recognition of damage due to mining. Why not apply the reverse burden of proof? Should the NAM not simply demonstrate that the damage is not caused by mining, and still fully compensate the damage? In Drenthe, in Langelo, the National Coordinator has left the trial and the NAM categorically rejects all claims for damages. That's not an independent and fair assessment of mining damage, is it? Quakes don't stop at a county line. I'm closing up. Trust in restoration and restoration of trust: that was the motto a few years ago. That seems a long way away now. The Christian Union calls for a phasing-out plan, which reduces extraction by steps, in combination with a large-scale heat transition, whereby the province of Groningen becomes a precursor to the application of innovative energy transition and energy savings, plus a truly independent assessment and generous compensation for the duped Groningers and Drenthers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u31	Madam President. The NAM and the Empire need to slow down. That's always been our line. I used to be an energy spokesperson between 2006 and 2010. I am now taking over from Mrs Klever, who unfortunately left us. Even then, I said: keep your own gas from Groningen for your own citizens and import the rest. Trade in gas, but keep that gas for us, too, to spare Groningen. I said that back then, between 2006 and 2010. We've always argued for a buy-out arrangement. Mrs Klever, who has been a spokesperson on this dossier in recent years, I do not know how many motions have been tabled on this issue. The spokesmen here know that. There were several motions: on generous buy-out arrangements, on the equally rapid recovery of complex damages, on the use of freed-out budgets for buy-out rather than for sustainability, to which people currently have nothing, on the equal treatment of all damages, including those arising from gas extraction outside the contour frameworks, and on the reversal of the burden of proof. All of these were tabled by the PVV, but they were all rejected; they didn't make it. I am very pleased that some parties have now finally opened their eyes and that they are now going to support us in this, together with a number of parties that have always supported us. We want an independent and fair protocol for the settlement of damages, as well as an independent management. From various sources we have understood, all Members of Parliament here, that the current National Coordinator does not have the necessary mandate and also does not have the necessary independence from the Ministry and possibly from other governments. I do not know that; I ask the Minister if that is the case. Don't let Groningers depend on counter-expertises and don't let the right to a second opinion disappear. That's what I'm asking the Minister. The PVV group in the Provincial States of Groningen has been waiting for months for answers to a WOB request from the National Coordinator with which all correspondence has been requested. As a member of the States-General, I too would like to see it. I shall therefore also put that request to the Minister. This concerns in particular correspondence, communication regarding buy-out, reinforcement, damage recovery, the contour card and the Groninger Forum. We're all interested in that. Once again, I understand that it may not be possible for everything to be made public, although I doubt that since state security is not at stake, but as a Member of the States General, I too would like to see these documents. I think the President will support me when I ask, because we simply have a right to see it. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on that request. How is the Minister going to solve and address the management problems? I am talking about the problems that have arisen with the National Coordinator Groningen, municipalities, the province and the national government. How will the Minister improve the role of Economic Affairs? And that in the most independent way possible? That is very difficult. After all, almost everything is related to the NAM or to one of the ministries. Get on with it! Who's gonna be in charge? Who's gonna do that? And who's independent enough? In any case, not the actors that have acted so far. Let's make that very clear. It just can't be. They are not independent enough. All the actors involved in the extraction of gas, including the government, have made billions of dollars over the back of our Groningen. That's what's going on in Limburg. The Minister knows that, too. I'm talking about the mining damage in Limburg. We'll get back to that at another time. I'm not going into that right now. What happened there is also a disgrace. People are in trouble. It can't be. An expensive damages settlement system has been rigged, with commissions, valuers and consultants. Everyone makes a lot of money out of that. So basically everyone deserves the misery of the doomed, while the Groningen with complex damage eventually have to go to court themselves to get their damages compensated. It can't be. We can't allow that. I thank the PvdA for finally wanting to do a hand-out. I am really grateful for that, because I am in favour of us working together on this issue. If humans or animals are in trouble, we need to hang out together. We should do more than that. Consensus makes power. Residents are in a desperate situation. They have unbearable fear and grief. We are always talking about economic damage here, but what is being done with mental and therefore physical damage? After all, from mental damage very often comes physical damage. You can check with any doctor. However, we are only talking about economic damage, and we are not even helping people enough. I ask the Minister: fulfil your duty to care for your citizens, be a hero in your missionary period too, and make sure that one day a street in Groningen that still has authentic houses can be named after you. The Minister can take care of that. Be merciful. Be a good shepherd. I always say that every minister is a shepherd of our sheep. Be that shepherd. There must be generous justice for those who are hurt. That is why I ask for a reduction in gas extraction, repair of damage and confidence because trust is also important for building and strengthening earthquake-proof, a generous buy-out scheme, independent measurement data, a well-stocked damages fund, following the recommendations of the Research Council for Security and an independent directional function and coordinator. I will leave it for today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. Groningers do not feel heard and involved in the solutions, and are angry and disappointed about them. I understand that all too well, but with understanding, you don't buy anything. The question is, how do we solve this, or who do we sort it out with? We will need to invest the roles and responsibilities well and clearly and provide each other with support where necessary. It doesn't have to be finger-pointed. The task before us is great. Anyone affected by earthquakes must be compensated. It is important that we speed up. As a Zeeuw, I say this has the same dynamics as the Delta Works. We must make big decisions, and we must also dare to take them, with a common responsibility. It is good that the Minister has chosen to reduce gas extraction by 10%. So I dare say that the system has worked. The limit values show an upward trend. The State surveillance of the Mines signals and informs, and the Minister takes action before the limit values are reached. My question to the Minister is why he does not allow the reduction to take place until 1 October and not before. That question was also asked by my predecessors. Can the Minister explain this? I'd also like to hear from him what the warning flare at Loppersum means. What amount of gas does that include? I'd like to get a clarification. An increase in tremors causes damage. Many Groningers see the handling as slow and bureaucratic. It is therefore a good thing that there will be a review of the damage settlement, as long as it is in service of the damage handling and the help of the Groningers. I read in the Minister's letter that the so-called second opinion is removed from the trial. Can the Minister explain why? Doesn't a second opinion allow you to weigh a verdict again? Who could give that second opinion? I expect a good explanation from the Minister. So far, I am not convinced that removing the second opinion is a good thing. The task for Groningen, the Groningen and the Groningen drivers is great. I'm aware of that. It's not just about mining damage. Also shrinkage, infrastructure and economic development are issues that lie on the board of the Groningen drivers. I imagine this is quite a task. With regard to shrinkage, the Groningen directors will have to consider whether it might be better to rebuild homes instead of strengthening them. It is also necessary to consider the consequences of the whole operation of strengthening, remodeling and rebuilding for neighbourhoods, neighborhoods and perhaps whole villages. How do you deal with the quality of life when the core of a village is in a renovation? How do you deal with closed stores during that operation? How do you ensure that viability continues to exist in the Groningen villages? We will have to deal with these concerns together. Municipal authorities, provinces and provinces will have to work together in order to settle this properly. They must agree together to initiate the improvements and address each other if the commitments are not met. They must stand above all for the agreements that have been made. Only if we tackle this together and do not turn it into a we-side discussion, or a Groningen-Den Haag discussion, can we quickly make meters. That is something that everyone is waiting for: a Groningen that can build a future without blabbing about things that we simply need to settle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u34	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u35	I'm reopening the meeting. I would particularly like to welcome the class of primary school Het Veldhuis. I give the floor to the Minister. The kids know what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. They know what it's about. It is about Groningen and that is a subject on which the two spokesmen who made their maiden speech today have also collapsed. I think we have found that Mrs Beckerman has expressed with a great deal of sensitivity what ultimately matters in that area, namely what people experience there. It has expressed the effects of natural gas extraction on people there. Natural gas extraction has been taking place in Groningen for decades since the 1960s. Mrs Beckerman has expressed what the impact is now on the field and on the people. She translates that into individual people, and she does so quite rightly, because it is ultimately about them. I would like to congratulate her, as well as Mrs Sazias, on her maiden speech. Mrs Sazias also did so in her own way. It has established the link between the transition to renewable energy, the transition from fossil to renewable energy and the desired reduction of gas extraction in Groningen. I think she has done so quite rightly, just as she has rightly pointed out the impact that everything that happens around the earthquakes has on the children in that area. That's something we can't pay enough attention to. I therefore think that Mrs Sazias has quite rightly pointed that out. I would therefore like to congratulate both spokesmen not only on their maiden speech, but also on the fact that they are now fully part of Parliament. It's a privilege to do that. I am sure that they will do so with great commitment and I hope that they will do so for a very long time to come. Mr. Chairman. According to Mrs Van Veldhoven, this is the 125th debate on energy in this cabinet period. The spokesmen have again indicated what lives in the area. I think it is best to put that as "collected distrust." There's really been a build-up of distrust in Groningen. That is not to blame for the people in Groningen, because it was caused by gas extraction. Those responsible for the extraction of gas are therefore responsible for this. The NAM is gaining gas. The government has issued permits to do so. I too, as Minister, have been responsible for what has happened with regard to gas extraction and the earthquakes in Groningen during this period of office. So there is a build-up of mistrust and we need to get it sorted out. We need to restore confidence and commitment in the work that governments are doing to improve the situation there. I believe that we can do the very best by performing, so by ensuring that things really improve in that area. People's problems were caused by something that really went wrong. They understand very well that these problems can only be solved by doing well and better. I'm glad that happens. In the last opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines, you can see on page 6 that the number of earthquakes in the area has been halved since 2013. You can also see that the strength of the earthquakes has become much less. Moreover, last year, for the first time since 2005, there was no earthquake stronger than 2.5 on the Richter scale. These are all concrete improvements that were absolutely necessary. You can also see that there is a direct relationship with what we have done in the past cabinet period, namely the extraction of natural gas more than halve compared to the time for the current cabinet period. That concrete improvement has been achieved. Of all the damage reports made in the area that were 80,000 damage reports; it is terrible to say that 85% is handled. At least that's what happened. That is a contribution to restoring confidence. I think it is also a big contribution that the situation has now been reached that someone who has damage does not have to fight with the NAM anymore. Everyone immediately understands that the balance is lost between a damage detector, a civilian, and the NAM, a large organization of Shell and ExxonMobil. Instead, the one who should be there is the government. The government has to ensure that there is a direction of what is happening and that the cases there, including the settlement of damages, are settled in a proper manner, in such a way that the alarms can also have confidence in them. The government's done two cases. We have organized a separate unit that can be charged with the execution of the damages, the Centre Secure Living. This organization is located in the area and is manned by people from the area. These people are capable of doing what needs to be done. However, it is a question of who decides what needs to be done. Who will establish the damage protocols? Who's gonna draw up the manual? Who's gonna run that Safe Living Center? Who controls that Center Safe Living? Who's handling the damage? Who makes the relevant decisions? For this we have appointed the National Coordinator Groningen, again a large intergovernmental organisation, where hundreds of people work. These people were placed there from the provinces, the municipalities and the ministries in The Hague. They work together under the National Coordinator Groningen to ensure that the public direction takes shape. First, the damage detector had to do with the NAM, but now it has to do with the government, in the form of the National Coordinator. It ensures that the Centre can take care of the business and does so in a way he wishes, which he has recorded in the documents. We are now in the process of redeploying the damage settlement. The National Coordinator has drawn the right conclusion from the many discussions that have taken place in the area that the complexity, the complexity of the whole procedure, is a worrying matter. This leads to delay and delay leads to prolonged uncertainty and increases the anger of people. It also leads to a lot of costs being incurred. This money does not end up in the hands of those who suffer damage, but in the handling of procedures. Of all the money that is currently going to the purpose, damage settlement, 58% will end up with the damage detectors. The rest remains in the system, in the procedures that are being conducted. That doesn't help people at the end of the day. The National Coordinator has sought an opportunity to concentrate all our good intentions in the course of the process of damages handling in the very beginning. Once there has been an earthquake, determine which area is involved and make sure that the people in the area are informed so that they know that they can report any damage. The damage is then dealt with vigorously from the very beginning. Therefore, an in-depth investigation will be carried out if any injury is reported. What exactly is the damage? What could have caused that damage? Good reporting is made of that. It will then be assessed by an independent committee. It is therefore not the case that one alarm has to make a decision. The independent committee, which can also employ experts, makes the assessment. In this way, things can be handled properly at the very beginning of the procedure and they can be dealt with as much as possible. If you manage that, you can also shorten the current long procedure and remove elements from it. Exactly how this is completed must be determined by the National Coordinator. He's the one responsible for two important cases. Firstly, he is responsible for establishing the manual and protocols. Secondly, he is responsible for the process leading to it. This process will involve the organisations, the people and the directors in the area, so that they can also recognize themselves in the end result. The National Coordinator has been working on this for a while and continues to do so. Eventually, he will also establish the documents, because he is the one who is responsible for the direction in the area on behalf of the government and has to ensure that the accumulated mistrust, including in relation to the settlement of damages, can be resolved again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u37	The residents, represented in the Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council, no longer want to sit at the table to talk about the new damage protocol, because they are angry because the minister is already taking an advance on the result, on the new damage protocol. They want it to be an independent process. Yesterday, in a small note, the Minister apologized in detail, but now I hear him take an advance on the outcome. Is it going to be an open process and then these organisations are going to sit down again or is the Minister still taking an advance on the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u38	I have indicated what the National Coordinator's commitment is, and I very much support it. He said: we must make sure that we do better at the beginning, that we do it there in such a way that we can solve the matter and prevent people from getting into a long procedure. So if you can do that, you can also extract elements in this current procedure and so it can be better done, but how exactly that will eventually be designed will be contained in protocols and a manual. I'm not gonna fix it. I'm gonna fix it for the National Coordinator. He will also have the opportunity to ensure that this process of getting there is carried out in such a way that he is convinced that manuals and protocols can be drawn up in a responsible manner. It is important for me to make it clear at this point that I support a number of things. I have worked very hard on this in recent years. I support the fact that the situation has now reached that the NAM can be removed. The National Coordinator is here. The Center of Safe Living is here. The last step, the NAM out, can be taken. I also support the fact that now that the NAM has been removed and that, for those cases where no damage has been recognised, compensation will still be provided for those who have reported damage, for which EUR 49 million has been made available by the NAM. I think that is a positive commitment. I also welcome the fact that the National Coordinator is focusing on doing much better work at the beginning of the procedure than has been done so far. In my letter of 13 April, I wanted to say that I think that this is a good development and that I support it, but I do not want to give the National Coordinator less freedom on any man than he needs to establish the protocols and the manual properly. He's got plenty of room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u39	Again. The representatives of the inhabitants, the Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council no longer want to talk about a new damage protocol anymore and that is due to comments made by the Minister. Is he gonna apologize to them so they can get back in the game? Does he give them his word that nothing is fixed and that they can talk to them in an open trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u40	As I have indicated, the National Coordinator intends to adopt these protocols and the manual shortly after he has obtained support for them in the region. That's not new to him. He's been working on that for months, and he's come a long way. He has had my full support for the approach, as he has it in his head now. He also received the support of the government leaders in the area. He is now committed to ensuring that people's organisations in the area are properly listened to to to see how they think about it and whatever thoughts they may have in those protocols and that manual. He's gonna work on that. That's what he's free to do. I support him in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u41	I think it is important to clarify this point. Those who read the letter of 13 April could read it as: these are the elements, we have decided, this is what is going to happen. So just to be clear, in this letter the Minister states: I could live with this, but if the NTG decides otherwise, for example not to cancel the arbitrator or to depart from this letter at another point, then he has that freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u42	It is true that this letter also expresses what emerged from the work of the National Coordinator, for which there is also support for the government leaders in the area and for which there is support from me, but in the end it is important to arrive at a settlement that will gain the confidence of the people in the area. The people in the area have organized themselves. So we need to talk to the organisations of the people in the area and listen to them. It is also necessary to ensure that, in the end, something comes out that they can agree with and in which they can find their views. So that will now be the follow-up work that needs to be done. The base is there. The National Coordinator laid that foundation, he's moving on now. He gets all the room for that from me and from the government leaders in the area. I am very confident that, with the fruitful consultations he has had with these organisations in the past, he will be able to continue to do so and ultimately lead to a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u43	The only way we can do anything in Groningen is to do it with the people there. It must therefore be ensured that, according to the people in the region, this protocol really leads to confidence. That must be the basis for everyone. The Minister says this is a base. So the NCG has all the space to work on it, but also to deviate from it. That is the conclusion I draw from the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u44	Sure, but I do have some important points that I really want to see in it eventually. I would like the money that is available for damage treatment to reach the people and not stick to procedures. I would also like people not to remain in uncertainty for long, so there is not a very long complicated procedure that is burdening them even more. They already have the burden of damage and the burden of the long procedure. I would also like to see the NAM not involved in any way in the settlement of claims and that this is done entirely under the direction of the government in the form of the National Coordinator. What I said in the letter of 13 April is in line with that, but that is something that is now going to be discussed further in Groningen. We'll see what the National Coordinator finally comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u45	Everyone agrees with the three principles outlined by the Minister. I also conclude that the process that the Association Eigen Huis outlines whether the process through the law is still a possible process. Everything's still on the table. The National Coordinator Groningen has every freedom to come to a process with which they can agree with the Groningers. Is that correct, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u46	There's no controversy between me and the National Coordinator. I see the National Coordinator as the one who directs the intergovernmental service not only for me, but also for the other ministries, the province and the municipalities in that area. He is the one who should first of all shape the public direction that should be given there. So the NAM was taken out at the damage settlement. Something else has to replace that. That's who we are with each other in the person of the National Coordinator. That National Coordinator is someone who has great experience in the area, but who also wants to have his own space. He won't be prescribed the law. He knows that in the end it is the intention to solve the problems that exist, together with the Groningers, in a way acceptable to the Groningers. That's what he's committed to. That's why I'm working with him. This is also the case for local directors and provincial directors in the area. Who's gonna give him the space he needs? We all have an interest in his success in this. We will also support him in this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u47	Okay, so everything's on the table. Next, the Minister says that the National Coordinator Groningen adopts the new damages protocol. Now you can go to the administrative court in the Netherlands as an administrative body takes a decision. Suppose you don't agree with the new damages protocol, is it civil law or administrative law that people can object to? The National Coordinator now has hybrid capabilities. He enters into civil contracts with the NAM, but as a derivative of the minister he also has administrative power. Is that new damages protocol civil law or administrative law? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u48	I cannot now answer the legal questions that can be asked. We are working on a legislative proposal in which we also strengthen and establish the position of the National Coordinator. We have made a proposal for this. We have received a response from the Council of State. I also discussed this with the Council of State. We are now examining the opinion and will discuss it again in the Council of Ministers. It must then be completed further. So it's work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mrs. Beckerman, for your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u50	One more time, Mr President, because there seems to be a kind of parallel world. I hear the Minister talking about all sorts of procedures and discussions, but the fact is that the people are no longer sitting at the table at the moment. The Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council don't want to talk anymore. Will the Minister please respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u51	That's what I've been working on. I think it is very important that constructive discussions are held with the people's organisations in Groningen and constructive consultations are taking place. I have already mentioned the term 'collected distrust'. I understand very well how people in Groningen look at the NAM, at the governments and at me. I understand that very well, but I also know that we have to deal with it. I know that we can only solve it if we come to an approach in which they can agree and if they have had sufficient influence on its creation. So I would very much like the organisations of the people in Groningen to come back to the table and talk to the National Coordinator about this. I know that he is also able to do that if we create the framework conditions. For my part, I will do my best to ensure that these conditions are optimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u52	I understand the distrust of this protocol very well. A method considered scientifically better has been applied to 1,600 cases. That showed zero damage. It is rather weird that the people who are going to talk about this will say: well, I don't know if this method is as reliable as you are going to apply it to the whole area. This was about the status of the method. My first question is whether it can be changed. My second question is as follows. Everyone agrees that the costs of proceedings should be reduced. However, if this is at the expense of people's appeals, i.e. they can no longer go to the arbitrator and cannot ask for a second opinion, I understand that people do not find it the right way. The costs of the proceedings are mainly incurred by the NAM and the lawyers who played a major role there. So there are two issues at stake. Firstly, the method: if people expect them to have damage, they must have a real chance that it will also be allocated as earthquake damage. In fact, we have included in the law that there is a reversal of the burden of proof. Is that reflected? Secondly, do people have a chance of having a second opinion and an arbitrator? Are those matters that can still be discussed? Otherwise, there is little point in taking part in these consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u53	It makes a great deal of sense to take part in the consultations. If you don't participate in the consultation... Something has to happen. If there are any claims, they will have to be dealt with. Now that the NAM has been taken out of the process by us, something else has to come. We can't leave the damage reports. Those claims must be dealt with. The people in Groningen understand that very well, but they want it to happen in such a way that they are involved, can find and agree to it. It is a difficult matter for the National Coordinator to do so in the current circumstances. I think it helps him that the NAM is really out and that the organizations are completely occupied with the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen. The organisations are also supported by the municipal authorities and the provincial government in Groningen and are also supported by me. The National Coordinator also knows his support. Natural gas extraction is more than halved. The number of earthquakes is more than halved. The strength of the earthquakes has decreased considerably. From this point of view, he must try to create a situation in which he can fully involve the organisations of the people in Groningen. I'll wait and see what that leads to. Which steps remain in the process and which do not? The length of the process is not only due to the NAM. We have established with each other that there is a first injury report with a first injury expert. Then there can be a second and possibly even a third. Then there is the arbitrator and eventually one can go to court with reversal of the burden of proof. It's a long procedure, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's a long one, and it's It is the intention of the National Coordinator to maintain the quality of the procedure while the good solution for the people is achieved at a very early stage, so that they are not sucked into that long process. That's what he's trying to shape now. I think it would be very wise for him to do that. I'd like to give him my full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u54	We really agree that the process is now going lousy. In some cases not; in the case of minor damage, it often goes well. But in most cases, it doesn't go well. However, reversal of the burden of proof, which is regulated by law and which is best fought for in the Chamber, must be the starting point. That shouldn't be the end of the court. Moreover, people have to have legal remedies, because they're facing a powerful institution, whether it's the Empire, a government or the NAM, all of which can hire lawyers and I don't know what. I would like to give the Minister these two principles. I recommend that this be made possible in consultation, as will the Groninger Gasberaad and the Groninger Soil Movement. Otherwise, he won't get out with the residents again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u55	I agree with Mr Nijboer. The starting point for reversing the burden of proof in Groningen has been discussed, it has been established and it must be maintained. This should also be the starting point in a new set-up. I also agree with Mr Nijboer that there should always be a professional opportunity for the people of Groningen. But we also need to fill in the long procedure, which is now leading to major problems. We must maintain the qualities, but let them lead to the best possible outcome as early as possible. That is the commitment of the National Coordinator, and I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u57	I'm gonna get back to what happened recently. In the meantime, I've received the advice of State surveillance on the mines. Let's go back to what we decided. The cabinet had decided to take a decision on approval of a extraction plan for a period of five years. The level of extraction in Groningen was 24 billion m natural gas. This level was chosen in such a way that there was a balance between the lowest possible extraction and as few fluctuations as possible from year to year. On the advice of the State surveillance of the Mines it was committed 24 billion m. But it is also stipulated that once a year, on October 1st, we would consider whether there were new facts or circumstances. Of course, I have never said that the SodM should not judge things within that year and should not come up with any further advice. In that first year, in the period from 1 October last year to 1 October this year, state surveillance has been following developments closely and has given reason to come to me with an opinion in the interim. By reducing natural gas extraction, we have achieved a drastic reduction in the level of earthquakes, earthquakes and their strength, particularly in the Loppersum nuclear area. Now the SodM has found that in the area of Loppersum, which was first the most restless and is now actually a very quiet area, the number of earthquakes has increased again from that low position in the past six months. So it has increased from the lower level and it was only about the surroundings of Loppersum. The State surveillance of the Mines has pointed out the signal value laid down in the mining decision. If that signal value is exceeded, it is necessary to consider whether something should be done. The SodM has said that in the area of Loppersum that signal value is approached. We are not yet at that signal value of 0.25 earthquakes per square kilometer per year, but we are getting close. If you do get to that signal value, SodM says to me, you have to reduce natural gas extraction in steps. The first step must be 10%. You have to look at the effects of this and then make further decision-making. The cabinet has said that it does not intend to wait until that signal value of 0.25 is reached. The considerations which SodM has given us in the opinion are such that it is better to take a step now, to start the preparations now to bring that natural gas extraction back in the area by 10% as soon as possible. That decision has been taken by the cabinet, focused entirely on the safety of the people in Groningen. What is needed for the safety of the people in Groningen? SodM's advice is there and the cabinet has taken a decision on it. At the same time, the GTS, a public undertaking whose shares are managed by the Minister of Finance, is constantly reviewing developments and considering the conclusions to be drawn. I heard one of the spokesmen say that the NAM determines how much natural gas is needed in the Netherlands. That's a misunderstanding. They have nothing to do with that. That's what GTS is about, the company that manages the gas network, the company that takes the gas from the different sources to the people at home and to the companies. GTS determines how much natural gas is needed in an average winter. Last year, GTS had identified the need for 24 billion m of natural gas in an average winter. They're constantly revisiting this. They have also prepared it for the review which will take place on 1 October. The latest insights are involved. They told me that they would come forward with an opinion on this in June, but I drew attention to the advice of State supervision of the Mines. The cabinet then adopted a line whereby preparations were made to reduce extraction by 10% as soon as possible, in line with the opinion's thrust. I have asked GTS about the current data and the conclusions that may need to be drawn from it. For the calculation of those 24 billion m3, GTS informed me that it was based on a certain quality of gas coming from the small fields in the Netherlands. That's expressed in a Wobbe factor. That is a technical term, for which I apologize. High-caloric gas from the small fields is brought to the nitrogen plants. That's where nitrogen is introduced, bringing the gas to the level of the Groningen gas. That gas from the small fields, mixed with nitrogen, can then be brought into the system. You'll have to take less gas out of the Groningen field. Last year, GTS made calculations based on a certain Wobbe factor. Over the past six months, three quarters of a year, GTS has found that the differences between the small gas fields in the Netherlands can be used by bringing the gas from the fields with the lowest Wobbe factor to the nitrogen plants. If you do that, you'd better use the nitrogen plants. At present 65% of the capacity of the nitrogen plants is used, while it is possible to use 85%. GTS says: we can bring that to 85%, then we need less gas from Groningen; that means that the amount of gas from Groningen that is needed for an average winter is not 24 billion m3, but between 21 billion m3 and 22 billion m3 is closer to the 21 billion m3.............................................................................................................................................................................................. That has led me to the conclusion that reducing gas extraction from 24 billion m to 21.6 billion m or in the order of magnitude indicated by the SodM should not lead us to experience greater fluctuations in the coming period. That 24 can be replaced by about 21. This means that we do have the advantages of obtaining less gas, which gives us more safety, but not the disadvantages of greater fluctuations. Those fluctuations remain the same. With the decision that the cabinet has now taken to initiate preparations for a 10% reduction in gas production by 1 October, we can achieve more security for the area. That's what it's about. We hope, following the advice of the SodM, that this will lead to further improvements in the Loppersum area. That is the background to the various figures, the 24 billion m and the 21.6 billion m requested by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u58	That makes me very curious to see to what extent this option was already on the table last year, when we decided to do that 24 billion cube. Even then, several groups here asked whether it was not possible to do less. In any case, I know from myself that over the last few years I have repeatedly asked about the use of nitrogen capacity. I am a little shocked that we are now finding out that the use was 65%, while 85% was possible. I can't wait to see what's going on. Who decides exactly what the security of supply is? I don't think this is the way we should fly this thing. I'm very worried about this. This way we find out every time with parts, a kind of salami tactic, how this works or not. That gives me very little confidence, I must say very frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u59	That's too bad, I say sincerely. We are doing this in a very correct way. Of course, there is no question of me keeping information from the Chamber at any time. On the contrary, I will ensure that all the information I have at my disposal is transparent to the Chamber and to everyone. It's gonna be on the Internet. All these calculations are accessible to everyone. The calculations made last year by the State-owned company GTS........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the moment, on the basis of what proved possible in practice, it has been concluded that a further reduction is possible. So I was informed as early as possible. It was not due to be discussed until October. They were supposed to bring it to me in June. Now it is April and I already have their preliminary conclusions at the moment. These conclusions lead me to follow the SodM opinion. This leads, on balance, to improvements in security, because the fluctuations that occur year by year as a result of that lower level that we can now establish do not occur. What happens every time, what happened last year and what happens now is this. Those researches of GTS and the experiences they gain are neatly put on paper and on the Internet. Anyone can take note of that. I can assure you, Mrs Mulder, that the only pressure from me that could possibly be experienced by GTS is that they must constantly do their best to stay on this subject, to see what can be done and to ensure that they draw the most up-to-date conclusions regarding the necessary level of gas extraction from Groningen to meet the needs of the Netherlands in an average winter. We know more will be won when it's colder. So you're gonna get fluctuations. That leads to insecurity. So we are looking for a balance between less winning and less fluctuations. The SodM also advises in this direction. In this direction, the cabinet has now reached its conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u60	I'm really seriously wondering what's going on here. As far as the Loppersum cluster is concerned, the Council of State has said that this should be as minimal as possible, actually just zero. Then a billion cubs will be removed after all. It's all trouble. That's why the SodM is going to do research again. Now it can go down. How does that correspond to the GTS and that 85% nitrogen capacity? Why don't we go straight to 100 and maybe go further down? I don't really get that. I really hope the Minister can explain that to me, because I really do find it very worrying the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u61	Now Mrs Mulder connects with 1 billion m which is won in the Loppersum area. In the Loppersum area, 15 to 16 billion m of natural gas were extracted at the beginning of this cabinet period. This has therefore been reduced to 1.5 billion m and then to 1 billion m. Now we are looking with those involved, at the possibilities of bringing it back even further. But we have to realize that at this moment we depend on the capacity in the Loppersum cluster for cold days in cold winters. Then it is really necessary to get a lot of gas out of that area in a short time to keep the business warm in the Netherlands. Well, that's really necessary. To ensure that, when it is really necessary, that extraction can take place, a minimum amount of gas is needed there. So we've already gone back from 15, 16 billion to 1 billion. If it is technically possible to go further back, that will certainly happen. There is no obstacle either, because there is no relationship between that 24 billion m and the 21.6 billion m, if the advice given by the SodM is carried out exactly, and that one billion extraction in Loppersum. That means that mining in Loppersum is just part of the total. Less extraction in Loppersum therefore does not change the total that we need in an average winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u62	What concerns me so much is that the SodM concludes on that one billion cube but perhaps on all the cubs that are won by the NAM, which is very difficult to find out on the basis of the measurement and control protocol whether all the calculations are correct. Then we'll get back to that billion in that cluster of Loppersum. Can't that go any further down? What exactly is that about? What kind of knowledge is there? It's starting to get a little tricky for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u63	At the moment, it is being considered whether this reduction of 1 billion is the maximum possible reduction or whether more is possible. From that we will get the findings, from which we will draw conclusions, which we will share with the Chamber. It is all of course publicly available information, because you can only gain confidence from the people in the area if they know exactly what is happening there. That is why we follow the line that all relevant investigations and reports, however technical, are posted on the Internet. That on which we base our decision-making can thus be followed by the people in the area. There is no inhibition to allow the extraction in Loppersum to be even less than 1 billion cubic metres, if that is possible in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u64	I assume that the Minister will also put the draft legislative proposal on the position of the National Coordinator on the site, so that the Groningers can involve it in the negotiations. We're here to control the government. Over and over again, we, for example from GTS, get a proper overview of the years 2017 to 2020 when it comes to the amount of gas needed. We saw the Minister on that and he explains that there is no other way. Then we hear: well, 24 can. I am pleased that it may be less, but how can the Chamber follow or check in any way what the gas needs are? After all, this need is constantly changing. In line with what Mr Mulder is asking: how can we know if that billion cube was really essential? The judge says the crane has to be completely shut down, others say it has to be on the watch flame, but a billion cub is really a lot of gas, and not just a watch flame. How can we check with the government that the best is chosen and that we are as low as possible in terms of gas extraction? I've lost track, and I've been on this file quite a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u65	In this respect, you have not lost sight of the track that has now been realized that where gas extraction was 48 billion cubic metres in 2012 and in the following year more than 53 billion cubic metres, it has now been reduced to 24 billion cubic metres, which is now going down 10%. All the opinions underlying the decision-making process shall be public. Now there are two concrete points. What about the minimum gas requirement in an average winter? Last year this was made available to everyone. The examination of GTS, the conclusions drawn and the cabinet decision have been made accessible, and we will do so again this year. I will take care of that, so that the people in Groningen can see what that is like and on what basis the final conclusion has been drawn. Mrs Van Tongeren wants to have the draft bill on the position of the National Coordinator on the Internet. For legislative proposals, we agreed on a procedure with each other. The Council of State is being consulted and there is an internet consultation. This is always happening at certain times, including the Council of Ministers. I follow the normal procedures for disclosure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u67	How, then, can Groningers discuss the damages protocol in a sensible way if it is unclear in what legal system that is in, if it is unclear whether the National Coordinator makes decisions that fall under civil law or administrative law and if it is unclear whether contracts with the NAM are covered by civil law or administrative law? Then the Groningen talk is a wash nose, isn't it? First, the Minister says what the results should be, after which the legal system will be reviewed afterwards. How can the Groningen contribute in a serious way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u68	Speaking of converging distrust, Mrs van Tongeren should really ask herself whether she is not contributing to this by speaking of a waxed nose. We had the following situation at the beginning of this cabinet period: if you had damage, you had to go to the NAM. We first put the Centre Safe Living in between and then the National Coordinator. Then we took the NAM all the way out. Now that the NAM is out, we are in the process of establishing the manual and protocols for the new situation. Of course, you can ask relevant questions about this and they will also have to be answered. But it's very bad to say right now that what's happening there is a wash nose. The fact is that the NAM is out and the government takes the public direction over the settlement of damages. The way in which this is to be done is laid down in a manual and in protocols. This has been discussed with me and with the directors in Groningen. There will now be further consultation with the organisations of the people in Groningen. Let us please not call that a wash nose, but let us establish that we are doing what is necessary. All the questions that are being asked about this, I will try to answer in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr President, I feel really attracted to the fact that I would be bad or that I would continue to stir up mistrust in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u71	You can make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u72	I myself think the question I get from Groningen is quite right. What kind of legal system are we operating in? It is said to the Groningen people: come and talk and come back to the table; see how a damage protocol works. I'm not the only lawyer in the world. Lawyers then ask first: what legal system does my damages protocol fall under, because then I can contribute to that? I would like to hear from the Minister that this is not a question that raises a lack of trust, but that it is a relevant question when drawing up a damages protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u73	The argument that the consultation in Groningen would be a wash-up is not a constructive statement. The situation is as follows: The NAM has been removed and the public direction has been given content. The National Coordinator has made a very constructive proposal for the precise functioning of the direction and the way in which we are going to handle the damage. He has obtained the necessary administrative support for this. He will now proceed with the consultations in the area. His intention is to lead to such an outcome that the way in which the damage will be dealt with can be shared by the people in Groningen. It's very good that we're doing this. It is very good that we are trying to strengthen the position of the National Coordinator. Let us not call the work we are doing now, this necessary and important work, a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u74	Let me make it clear that we are not talking about a de facto reduction in the extraction of gas, we are talking about a relocation. Less gas may be extracted in the Groningenveld, but elsewhere in the Netherlands more high-caloric gas is extracted, which is then reduced to low-caloric gas via nitrogen factories. There is a clear relationship between earthquakes and gas extraction. Aren't we gonna move the problems? We are now pretending that the extraction of gas is going down by 10%, but 10% is being won in a different way. Can the Minister guarantee me that we won't move the problems? And more importantly, can we not ensure that we need less gas in the long term? Can the Minister state exactly what is happening to ensure that we are about to use 10%, 20%, 50% or 100% less gas, not just from the Groningen field, but all of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u75	It's not like more gas is going to be extracted from small fields. Besides the large gas field in Groningen, we also have a lot of small fields in the Netherlands on the North Sea and on the mainland. Those small fields were used as a priority. In 1999 there was a historically low production of the Groningenveld, because it was first and foremost used on small fields. These small fields are gradually becoming exhausted, but the Groningen field is also becoming exhausted. We are in a situation where more and more gas has to be imported from abroad. It is not that if less gas is extracted in Groningen, we therefore need to obtain more gas from small fields. In the Netherlands there is a certain need for gas. This need is partly covered by Groningen, partly by small fields, partly by imports from Norway and partly by imports from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u76	I have heard the Minister clearly say that the 24 billion cube that was first won could be reduced to 90%, i.e. 21.6 because it can now also be extracted from high-caloric gas from the small fields.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u77	I apologize to the Chamber for the technical argument I made on this point and for Mr Wassenberg, who cannot be denied intelligence, not being completely clear. So I'm gonna have to explain that better. What I wanted to say and what I'm going to try to say better is this. Over the past few years, we have found that we can use the high-caloric gas from the small fields. We can transport that to the two nitrogen plants we have, mix it with nitrogen and make it a quality similar to Groningen gas, which is a unique low-caloric gas in the world. The high caloric content of the small gas fields in the Netherlands varies. GTS has seen that it is possible, in particular, to lead the gas from the low Wobbe factor gas fields to the nitrogen plants. The other, higher calorific gas from these small fields goes directly to the industry in the Netherlands and to the gas plants. The relatively higher calorific gas from the small fields goes to those nitrogen plants and then gas can be produced that can replace the gas from Groningen. So that means you have to get less gas out of the Groningen field. I tried to explain that in the first instance. I hope I have been able to explain it a little better in this second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u78	Your second interruption, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u79	This is exactly what I'm saying. Less is won from the Groningenveld, because it is won elsewhere. It'll be made low-caloric through those nitrogen factories. But that's won from those high caloric fields, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u80	Sure, but we've been winning gas out of the small fields for decades. We have four sources of gas in the Netherlands: Russia, Norway, the small fields, both on the North Sea and on the mainland, and the Groningen Field. That high-caloric gas is used for a certain purpose. Low-caloric gas is mainly used for households in the Netherlands. In addition, there are 300 industrial companies connected to that low-caloric gas. However, most industrial companies use high-caloric gas. This high-caloric gas comes from three sources: the Dutch small fields, Russia and Norway. We now remove the relatively lowest calorific gases from these small fields. We'll take it to the nitrogen plants. By doing so in this way, we have been able to achieve that less gas has to be extracted from the Groningen field. So there are shifts in the gas extraction from small gas fields that already took place. So it is not that because of what we are doing here, more gas has to be extracted from the small fields. The gas from the small fields is used in a different, sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u81	I have tried to follow the technical argument well. I agree with the Minister in itself that we are getting a lot of information, including on technical decision-making and the like. The big question is why this couldn't be done last year and now it is. Why was 24 billion security of supply necessary last year when there were also nitrogen plants and then there was also low and high-caloric gas and why can it be less now? Why did we have to agree to EUR 24 billion last year, otherwise the factories would close and the heating would go out, and can we do it now with less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u82	Why we can do it now with less than last year, I just explained. We have learned in the past cabinet period. The first thing we learned is that we can use the nitrogen plants for this purpose. That's not what those nitrogen factories were originally meant for. Those nitrogen plants were meant to be used when it was necessary and something extra had to be done. Over the past four years, we have discovered that we can also keep these nitrogen plants running permanently and thus make it possible to obtain less gas from Groningen. So that's the first thing we've learned. The second thing that we have learned now is that we can benefit even more from it, by leading the gas selected from those small fields to those nitrogen plants in a sensible way, and that we need to get even less gas from the Groningen field. We constantly learn from experiences how to do things better. When we became aware of the major problem in Groningen four and a half years ago, we had the problem that the solutions were not clear. The solutions had to be partly invented, in theory and in practice. We have achieved a great deal in this area. The latter is also a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u83	It is clear that more and more information is becoming available. The PvdA Group is also pleased that less is won. I'll take it that way. Another point is the advice of the SodM to win 10% less and to produce that advice. Above the letter is "Ministry of Economic Affairs" and on the first page is five times the word "NAM." The letter says that the SodM is surprised at the fact that there has not been a good look at how this extraction takes place, that there has been no discussion at all on how to do less, in order to ensure security of supply. The main argument for the Court is that it sets the minimum level. The Minister is therefore right that we have received all the technical information. But how is it possible? Surely it can no longer continue to be so that the NAM has such a great influence in those analyses of what is needed for security of supply, while the NAM has such a great interest in winning as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u84	But the NAM doesn't make those analyses. The only person making analyses is GTS; and GTS is a 100% state-owned company and its shares are managed by my colleague from Finance. GTS stands there like the Cabinet, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and you, neutral. We are doing our best to do the best we can to do the things that are in the interests of Dutch citizens, in this case the people in Groningen. As a state-owned company, GTS makes analyses of what you need minimally in a year with an average winter to ensure that we don't get cold in the Netherlands. They make those calculations; the NAM has nothing to do with that. They are brought to the cabinet and on that basis we can draw conclusions again. If Mr Nijboer says that improvements are possible and that others might need expertise, I certainly do not want to rule that out. But I would point out that not the NAM but the State-owned GTS is doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u85	GTS is also involved and indeed examines what is possible. However, it is also about other things: the seismicity, the impact of what you drill at which well, the fluctuation over the year, and the impact on earthquakes, which it is all about. These are all analyses of the NAM, which are also related to how you determine that security of supply over the year. That's what GTS does. It's all very complicated, but that's how it is; that's all connected. Then the SodM says that the NAM does all these calculations and that it has serious doubts. SodM says 10%. And not 1% or 2%, because that's very little, they say in the press conference. It is also surprising to the SodM that there is no proper consultation to see how it can be reduced with the same extraction. That's what they say. And that's what the NAM does. It surprises the SodM that the NAM doesn't say that in the NAM report, while the NAM has an interest in winning a lot. That's what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u86	It is unthinkable that things happen in Groningen that the NAM is not involved in at all. The NAM is the organisation that has been winning gas in Groningen for 40, 50 years. There's a lot of expertise there. There is also the responsibility to do so in a good way. We have the State's surveillance of the mines to see to that. The SodM comes to me again, this time too, with recommendations. They see opportunities to improve things. I'm very happy about that. So I am going to implement all the recommendations contained in that SodM opinion. I have no limitation as to the implementation of SodM recommendations. On the contrary, SodM is currently saying to me: hold on to that 24 billion m and go back only when the signal value of 0.25 earthquakes per square kilometre per year for the Loppersum area is exceeded. We have now said that this is the only recommendation we do not follow. We're not gonna sit on that 24 billion m3 right now. We are already calling for the 10% reduction to be made as soon as possible. The State surveillance of the Mines is also an opportunity for me to get a better grip on the process and to organize things better and better. I am therefore pleased with the advice and I am grateful to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u87	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u88	That's right. That's right. In essence, I think it comes down to the following. The NAM has had a lot of influence on the damage handling. That influence is coming out now. The NAM has a lot of influence on the investigations into earthquake-related damage and the effects of gas extraction. There's nothing independent about that. The SodM should actually do that, but that again depends on the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The CPB says the fact that the SodM is part of it, not above that, but that's just on those letters. While EZ has other interests, such as trade interests, gas interests and so on. The interests in the gas building in the Netherlands are too much intertwined and connected. We need to get rid of that. Monitoring must be independent, scientific research must be independent and the NAM must be much less influential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u89	Monitoring is completely independent. As far as the acquisition of knowledge is concerned: if you gain gas there, you obviously have a lot of expertise and many responsibilities. So you have to investigate things, too. The NAM gets that designated by the SodM: you want something there; based on research but shows that it is responsible and how you can do it best. From the SodM the NAM gets orders to do research and does so. In addition, we have found that it is very useful to create something in the field of research that is completely separate from the NAM, in which expertise can be collected and which can be used by the SodM. The responsibility of the NAM remains. The NAM can still receive research orders, but something must also be done independently. We have therefore worked together on a knowledge programme that is being set up. This knowledge programme involves universities and all kinds of experts. This will be led by an independent scientific committee. That's what people have been asked to do. So they're about to start their work. There is also ongoing consultation in the area, in the region, to gather research questions from the area that can then be deposited with that knowledge programme led by that independent scientific committee. I think we are making a further improvement with this. The SodM is optimally used. Soon we will be able to use this independent scientific committee with this knowledge programme. This way we are constantly working to improve things. The most important thing is that I say again that the extraction of gas is more than halved and that the number of earthquakes is more than halved. 85% of the claims have been processed and eliminated and we have made a plan for the settlement of the damage in which the NAM has been completely out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u90	Before I give Mrs Van Veldhoven the floor, I would like to ask the Minister something. The Minister has been busy for almost an hour, of which 45 minutes to respond to interruptions, while the MPs have also asked a lot of questions in their contributions. I would therefore like to know the state of play on the question of the answer, also in relation to our votes today and the people who are following this debate. How far along is the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u91	In any case, I have kept my agenda open until 5 p.m. on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u92	You're all blooming; I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u93	If you want me here longer, I'm sure I'll be available for that. You said that I spoke for an hour and that I was able to keep my own story in it for 15 minutes. I'm very grateful for that. I'll try to go through with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u94	With what? Another hour? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u95	No, I think the MPs have been mostly interrupting what they see as the most important subjects. So I have already dealt with the introduction of the spokesmen to a large extent. I have a few general points to make and then I will get to the contributions of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u96	I also wanted to know whether a number of questions have already been taken into account in the response to interruptions. That is the case. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u97	I would like to continue on Mr Nijboer's point. We actually have two types of volume issues. One species is: how much do we win in total in the year? The Minister has just explained why he now thinks we can go further down. I'll have a question about that later. And indeed, GTS determines how much we need. Another question is: how is the amount of gas we need won over the field? That's the security of capacity. How do we ensure that, when it suddenly gets very cold, we can pump up enough gas so that all demand can be met at that time? The NAM conducts studies on the security of capacity. But there is a relationship between on the one hand the place where you take the gas out of the field at the time and in what quantities and on the other hand the seismicity. Hence the question, which was also raised by Mrs Mulder, whether an independent test can take place. After all, at this point, the NAM provides the input; it is not determined by GTS. Is that right? Is the Minister prepared to take such a test?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mrs Van Veldhoven is right: there are two forms of security of supply. The one form of security of supply is that you can supply the gas that the people in the Netherlands depend on throughout the year. The other form concerns peak moments. For example, if it freezes 15 degrees in winter and everyone turns on the heating and showers on Monday morning, you will see a huge peak in gas demand. That is what Mrs Van Veldhoven means when she talks about security of supply. For those kinds of moments in particular, we need the capacity of Loppersum. That is also one of the topics SodM is talking about. SodM says: we do not feel that it is perfectly clear, that we have enough clarity as to what is the basis for calculations and what is best decided. I agree with SodM. SodM doesn't know. The NAM doesn't know it either. It is a large gas field with different compartments. If you use one compartment very much over a certain period of time, it has an effect in that compartment itself, but after some time that compartment is replenished from the other compartments, which also affects the whole gas field. They don't know exactly what that is about. Mrs Van Veldhoven says: in this respect, you should not only rely on research carried out by the NAM on behalf of SodM, but you should also entrust the independent knowledge programme with the scientific independent committee. I think Mrs Van Veldhoven is right about that. SodM will certainly also work with that committee to see how it can make a contribution to clarity in this way. I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u99	Very nice. Perhaps we can reach such a conclusion on the next point. The Minister said that it is still being examined whether a further decrease can be achieved. He just mentioned that this research has recently resulted in the understanding that you can do more with that nitrogen conversion. It's now at 85% instead of 65%. My question to the Minister is whether he expects there to be more room in it. And what are the other lines along which he investigates whether the question can actually go further down, and with that also the extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u100	Here's what we're gonna do. Reducing the demand for gas is something that we have already talked about a lot about in other debates in this house. This is happening in the context of the energy transition. We want to move from fossil energy to renewable energy in the Netherlands as soon as possible. We put a lot of money into that. We have already achieved a great deal in this respect and we will see great progress in the coming years. The first problem from Groningen's perspective, however, is that as long as you still need fossil fuel, gas is not the cleanest fossil fuel, which is not the first fossil fuel to fail. The second problem, seen from Groningen, is that all households in the Netherlands have equipment that is only suitable for the Groningen gas. That's a fact. As a result, the whole of the Netherlands depends on the gas in Groningen. So both these things complicate the case. These are the problems that we are facing and for which we need to find solutions. The cabinet is constantly working on this and also presents it to the Chamber, which then has its views on it again. I think that we should always draw the broad line on this point. We have succeeded in getting the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy irreversible in the Netherlands. We put a lot of money into renewable energy. Meanwhile, we have also managed to organise the matter in such a way that we have been able to halve the gas extraction in Groningen more than half. As a result, seismicity has also been reduced by more than half. That's the big line. We are working on a lot of things and much remains to be done, but much has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u101	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u102	A very brief question: does the Minister see any further room for further use of nitrogen conversion capacity? It's now at 85%. Is there any rack in there or can't it be because of maintenance or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u103	I think it would be very useful for the House to be involved again in the whole of the nitrogen plants. The best time for that seems to me to be when there is a new cabinet. That will be the decision that the current cabinet has not taken, namely whether there may be another nitrogen plant, on its plate. I think that is a good opportunity to indicate what we now have in terms of nitrogen plant capacity, to what extent it is used, to what extent there may be room for manoeuvre, to what extent the new plant might be able to start operating in the fourth quarter of 2021, and whether that would still make sense at that time. I think that's the time to make the whole thing clear to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u104	I can hear the Minister repeating: I have halved the gas production. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but it makes me a little cranky. Because you weren't the one who halved the gas extraction, Minister. The Groningers forced that on the judge. I myself spoke in the Council of State. It was the Groningers who forced you to halve the gas extraction. I'm proud that the Groningers have always made a fist. I find it sad that this is the system: that we have to go to court all the time and that we have to fight all the time. I would ask you to respond to the recommendations of the Security Research Council in order to do something radically different now. The OVV recommends stopping fighting, sticking patches and Juridizing, and putting people first again. Would you like to comment on the recommendations of the OVV or, rather, would you like to take them all over now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u105	I'm not talking about me. I'm talking about the cabinet. The cabinet takes decisions. Inside the cabinet, it's my wallet. In the first instance, I have the responsibility to deal with the day-to-day situation and to make proposals to the cabinet. I'm playing an important role in that myself. That is why I am accountable here to the Chamber and I must speak about 'I' in that regard. After all, I am quite capable of doing so. It is not the case that the people in Groningen had to enforce the reduction in gas extraction against me through the courts. That's just not true. As a cabinet, we have always decided to reduce gas production. At some point there was a level of gas extraction of 30 billion m. Then there was a procedure at the Council of State. He said that extraction had to be reduced to 27 billion m. In the meantime, I'd anticipated that. I had already brought it back to the 25 billion m by then. Then it went to 24 billion m. Now I have gone one step further in anticipation of an opinion from the State surveillance of the Mines. The cabinet has gone a step further. We are preparing to reduce 10%, assuming 24 billion m. So it is simply wrong that it should be enforced against the cabinet or against me in court. The cabinet has always taken the initiative. It has always worked on reducing gas extraction in Groningen because it is the only way to reduce earthquake problems and improve the situation for people in Groningen. We have received the report from the Security Research Council and we have informed the Chamber that we are following and implementing all recommendations. The Research Council for Security has now produced a follow-up report and has had a number of criticisms. We will come up with a response to that. He's going to the room, too. I can already refer to a letter from State surveillance of the Mines. This says that the second report of the Security Research Council suggests that there would be an increase in earthquakes. That's not true, SodM says. It says: we have much more and much better equipment, so we can also measure much smaller earthquakes in the area. As a result, earthquakes are now being depicted that have not been depicted at the beginning. If you want to look at the real development of seismicity, you have to look at page 6 of the last opinion of state supervision. There you see what the development is like. Like the cabinet and state surveillance, the Research Council for Security is doing its utmost to try to contribute to improving the situation for the people in Groningen. I am certainly grateful for all the gifts and recommendations I can follow. I'd be happy to. Insofar as this has not yet been done, I shall see how this can be done. In my response to the second report of the Security Research Council, I will give that more detail to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u106	Now you go on and on to a conclusion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u107	I shall now move on to the points that I wanted to raise more generally before my reaction to the introduction of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u108	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u109	It is now about the starting date for the reduction in gas extraction. I'm getting ahead of the advice of state surveillance. The SodM says you need to stay at 24 billion. We don't. We're going to prepare to go down to 10%. What's the first way to do that? We are in an ongoing gas year, because the gas year in the Netherlands runs from 1 October to 1 October. This means that we have completed the first seven months of the current gas year. In those first seven months, an average of 2.2 billion m of natural gas has been extracted. During the remaining five months of this gas year, extraction of 1.7 billion m per month is still possible. This 1.7 billion m extraction is needed because, even when winter is over, there is still demand for gas. The question is much less, but there is. For example, there is demand for gas from the Netherlands and Germany, Belgium and France, where one is also partly connected to the low-caloric Groningen gas. Moreover, we need a quantity of 5 billion m of natural gas to fill the storage in Norg. So that 1.7 billion is needed over the next five months. I can therefore make the reduction by 1 October next. There are also procedural reasons. I can't just reduce or increase gas extraction. We have to follow procedures for that. There's a Mining Act and a consent decision. I have to deal with that, too. All this leads to the fact that, in my view, it is also formally possible within the period that it is practically possible. This means that we are not going to decide on 1 October to do anything, but that we are already preparing it in such a way that it can be implemented immediately on 1 October. We could therefore achieve the 10% reduction as from the new gas year. That's about the date. I have already touched on some of Mrs Van Tongeren's points. She also asked about the two tonnes made available for legal proceedings against NAM at the last examination of the budget for Economic Affairs. That money is in the budget and can therefore be used. We are now in the process of taking the NAM completely out of the damages settlement and taking over the damages settlement as a government. I do not think this is the right time to conduct proceedings against the NAM. I do not see at the moment how in Groningen I can make constructive use of the space I am given in the budget. I think it's good to focus, under the direction of the National Coordinator, on a good alternative for the moment that the NAM is out of the damage settlement. I shall therefore leave this amount on the budget. In the course of the coming months, it will become clear how it will all be completed. Then there may also be a successor, who can draw conclusions from it and see if a meaningful interpretation can be given to that budget line. At the moment, given the current situation, I have no intention of implementing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u110	I would like to know whether all Mrs Van Tongeren's questions have now been answered. Mrs. Van Tongeren, this is your last interruption. Then you can take everything with you at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u111	I'm gonna go see what other questions I have from Mrs. Van Tongeren. Mrs Van Tongeren also spoke about the damage in the outskirts. There were approximately 1,600 damage reports outside the earthquake area. With all the available scientific knowledge and all the relevant expertise that could be collected, all kinds of investigations have been conducted into each of these cases. In addition to that scientific guidance, we also had administrative guidance. All these investigations concluded that what had been reported of damage outside the earthquake area could not be demonstrated and that it was not expected to be proven. In itself, that is not so strange because it is outside the earthquake zone, but we have had it looked at with open eye under the guidance of the National Coordinator. He organized the case in such a way that it was in order both in terms of scientific content and in terms of administrative guidance. In the end, these conclusions have been drawn. The National Coordinator thinks that this man of approach has valuable elements not only for that outlying area but also for the earthquake area itself. It has also been indicated by the guidance committee which valuable elements could be and which elements could be improved. That is also the pre-work he is using to finally establish the damage protocols and the damage manual in the earthquake area. Mrs Van Tongeren also spoke about the profits of the Safe Living Centre. That's a private-law organization. If it has less expenditure than it has in revenue, then those responsible must take a decision on it. It's an organization that costs a lot of money. The resources available for this must be sufficient to do its job. It's not an organization to make a profit. I have no idea at this time of how to deal with deficits or small surpluses. These were Mrs Van Tongeren's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u112	There was a motion passed to make a budget available for courts of Groningers who want to. Then there was a majority supported amendment to make that money available. The National Coordinator has asked around in Groningen if there are any suitable cases. And now the minister says he's not gonna spend that money. Is that a step to restore Groninger's confidence in government and politics? What's the big problem with letting people who want to go to court anyway? If the Minister already finds 2 million profits from the Safe Living Centre a small amount, two tonnes is actually a negligible amount. Why can't Groningers use that money from this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u113	It was about supporting legal proceedings. I am trying not to allow it to come to legal proceedings. The last step we have taken is that an arbitrator has been deployed to ensure that, before it comes to court, it leads to a result in a practical way. The most important thing was that we pulled the NAM out of that damage process. The aim of the amendment was to finance pilot procedures which could then be carried out against the NAM. The moment you take out the NAM, you create a new situation. Then it is not wise to start legal proceedings again. People in Groningen aren't getting anywhere with legal procedures. They'll make a difference with proper and quick handling of damage, and I'll focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u114	I am very disappointed that the Minister can imagine that, despite the fact that twice a majority in this Chamber has voted for it, the Minister is going to present it. Legally, however, he may. My second question is about research on which so incredibly many claims for damages are rejected. Is that a peer-reviewed research, which really has a scientific basis? Is the Minister prepared to ensure that research on the basis of which such important matters are based is scientifically based and that all kinds of existing standards, such as the NEN and ISO standards, are well involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u115	Over the past few months, I have ensured that the National Coordinator, when dealing with such matters, has a great deal of attention to detail. He ensures that those who have investigated those 1,600 claims in the off-site area go there with the good institution and have the good expertise. He ensures that the good scientific guidance is available. He also ensures that this whole process is managed by an advisory committee with a composition that he trusts. Eventually, conclusions were drawn by both the guidance committee and the National Coordinator. I think this has happened carefully. We have learned from this once again what we can use for the core area, the earthquake zone itself. I have just said all the necessary things about how we do that. I therefore firmly believe, in the light of my experience with the National Coordinator, that it has been done in a very responsible way, including scientifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u116	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mrs Beckerman rightly pointed out what is ultimately at stake in Groningen, namely the problems facing people and what they look like in individual cases. She has rightly emphasized this. She said that there was an increase in activity in the Groningen soil. That's not true. There is much less activity in the Groningen soil. But it is precisely in the core area where the greatest reduction was achieved that some increase has recently been observed. It was still below the limit. We reacted directly to this by allowing a 10% reduction in total gas production in Groningen from 1 October. Mrs Beckerman has asked a number of questions which I have already been able to answer. She also talked about the area in Langelo, about the gas storage of Norg in the Drenthe area. In the area outside the earthquake area in Groningen damage can also occur in some way. The person causing the damage shall be liable for it. That's the NAM. If the outcome is not to the satisfaction of the damage detector, the damage detector can go to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. It will then look into the matter, appoint experts, if necessary, and then ensure that the matter is settled in a proper manner. I will certainly see to that myself. However, it is important to note that there is a very specific problem in the Groningen earthquake area, because there is a huge field and the effects there are large. Furthermore, it is all to a lesser extent, to a lesser extent. That is why there is a special policy for the Groningen earthquake area and that there are good facilities elsewhere. Among other things, a Technical Committee on Soil Movement can be set up. Among other things, there is a hotline where people can be pointed out in the right place, so that they do not feel they are sent from the cabinet to the wall. I have gone into the independent scientific activities. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also seen many points answered, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u118	I thought, "Let me wait until the minister's done." I have asked a number of questions about Langelo and the settlement of damages there. People notice that the soil is in motion by being pumped in and pumped out. There's just soil movement, they're not earthquakes. There's really soil movement that's bothering people. That's just mining damage. The question is how that is solved, knowing that it is all directly related to what we are doing in the Groningen field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u119	I have answered that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yeah, that's right. All you said was that they were questions from Mrs. Beckerman, but they were questions from Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u121	My apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u122	But the answer has indeed been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yes, I see you're right, as always, Mr. Chairman. I should have answered this question by mentioning Mrs Mulder's name. Let me see if I have any other questions from Mrs Mulder before I go on with Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions. Ms Mulder asked how the region would be involved in the decisions on the amended storage plan for Norg. At the end of March 2017, I received a modified storage plan for Norg. The procedure to be followed is laid down in the Mining Act and requires that advice be sought from all regional authorities, i.e. the province, municipalities and water boards. There is an opportunity for everyone to present a view. At some point, the storage plan will be made available to everyone, including the Chamber. It is not exchanged separately with the Chamber because it is a procedure laid down in the Mining Act. That procedure shall be followed carefully. Both the drivers in the area and the people in the area can bring forward views, which will then also be assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u124	Is the Minister prepared to send the gas storage plan specifically to the Chamber for information? Then maybe we can talk about it sometime. This has a big effect on the inhabitants there, who feel a bit peeped. Because there are problems in Groningen, they get extra storage capacity. That varies in numbers of cubs. A lot of questions have been raised by the inhabitants. I understand that; therefore I would like to pay explicit attention to it in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u125	There's no peeping around there. Here's what's gonna happen there. In order to obtain less gas in Groningen, it is important to have a gas storage. At times when a lot of gas is needed, you don't have to extract all the gas from Groningen, because you put the gas in storage at a quiet time in the summer. You can use that raise then. That is in the interests of the people throughout the country and in particular of the people in Groningen. The people in the area in question are certainly not abandoned. If anything happens there, it will go through amended plans which follow exactly the procedure of the Mining Act. All governments will have the opportunity to give their views. All citizens will also be given the opportunity to express their views. If there is damage, the person causing the damage is responsible for compensating it. If this does not happen to the pleasure of the people in the area, they can involve the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, which will then do what is necessary for the benefit of the people. So I think that the word beeping is really out of place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u126	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the balance between less gas winning and less fluctuations. I have already gone into this, but I will add a brief addition to it. This is the big point that the SodM is constantly working on. The SodM knows of course that gas extraction is necessary in order not to leave the Netherlands in the cold in winter. That's a fact. How can gas extraction be as safe as possible on the basis of that fact? The SodM keeps telling me that I have to do two things at once: less winning and less fluctuations. That is why it is good that we are always looking very closely for the balance. We had first found that balance at 24 billion m, as also advised by state surveillance. Now that state surveillance says that it can also be reduced by 10%, and on the basis of the advice of the GTS, I have found that this can also be done in a responsible way, the cabinet has decided not only to follow the advice of the SodM but also to anticipate it. I come to Mrs Sazias' contribution. She said that there should be an integral phasing-out plan and asked what I was doing with the recommendations. I have already indicated that recommendations, in particular those of the Security Research Council, will all be followed and that we will come back to the Chamber on the second report written by the Security Research Council. The integrated phasing-out plan for gas extraction, as requested by Mrs Sazias, is our transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. I am very pleased that 50PLUS, through Mrs Sazias, also supports this transition, because it is a very radical transition that costs a lot of money. We need the support of everyone, especially Mrs Sazias and Mrs 50PLUS. So I'm happy about that. However, gas will continue to play an important role in the transition from fossil to renewable energy. This transition will take place in the period up to 2050 and gas will still play an important role in this transition. Ms Sazias also asked about the Ombudsman's recommendations. I see a lot in the Ombudsman's points of view from the signals we have also received from other quarters. We have already talked extensively about the smooth and fair handling of the damage. I also discussed recent developments in the position of the NAM. We have talked extensively about the strengthening of the houses in the Chamber, and we will do so. That is an important subject. Reducing gas extraction is very important, but strengthening the buildings, especially housing, is also important. There's a lot to be done there. The people of the National Coordinator are also working on this for a large part of their time. We have now arranged the matter in such a way that it will probably be possible to start in October with the implementation of the first 1,740 houses in the picture. Then we try to inspect homes at a rate of 5,000 homes per year, then make agreements with the people and carry out the necessary work. I predict that Mrs Sazias will often talk about this in this house, because it is a very far-reaching operation involving very many people and where a lot has to be done, not only in terms of the organisation of the whole, but also in terms of the individual's attention, to ensure that it is done in a responsible way. Then Mr Wassenberg. It's nice to have him back on this file. It has already been done by Mrs Ouwehand, but in the time when Mrs Ouwehand was replaced by Mr Wassenberg, I have already seen that he does so with a great deal of effort. I understand that he will also deal with this dossier on behalf of the Party for Animals Group in the near future. Mr Wassenberg spoke about the Centre for Safe Living as a ventriloquist for the NAM. I really hope that with this kind of thing we can stop washing noses, beeping, ventriloquist dolls, also to help solve the collapsed distrust in Groningen. The Safe Living Centre is not a ventriloquist doll, but a performance organisation. That organization is manned by people in Groningen who are doing their best. She will be deployed in the coming years to ensure that under the direction of the National Coordinator Groningen the things that need to be done are done. That is one of the means we have in our hands to do the good things for the people of Groningen. Mr Wassenberg said the same thing as Mr Nijboer, namely that there would be a lot of things in the hands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Economic Affairs would be about finance, state supervision and the permits for natural gas extraction and what should be done for that purpose. As far as finances are concerned, I can assure both gentlemen that not one moment in the last four and a half years a necessary measure has not been taken because of financial importance. That hasn't been the case. We have looked first and foremost at the safety of the people in Groningen. We have had to take into account the security of supply interests, also because they are linked to security interests of people throughout the Netherlands. That is why we have made decisions. It is not the case that there are financial interests. If money comes in from natural gas, it'll just end up in the state treasury. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs there is no interest in getting more or less money: it all goes to the state treasury and benefits the general interest in the Netherlands. So the argument of finance doesn't play out. Then there's the argument of state surveillance of the mines. Mr Nijboer said that he had a paper from the SodM which also contained EZ. EZ is not a dirty word. EZ is one of the eleven ministries in the Netherlands. It is a ministry that must ensure that the good decisions can be taken in the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers takes the decisions. In the first instance, one member of the Board of Directors bears the responsibility for the day-to-day operation and the proposals to the Council of Ministers. This is done very conscientiously by me and by the staff of Economic Affairs. I hope that over the last four and a half years, in the debates we have had, you have noticed that we have done so. As far as the finances are concerned, there's no point. On behalf of the cabinet, I explained that the independence of State supervision of the Mines should not be obstructed in any way. That has not been the case at any time. I think it has never been the case among my predecessors either. The State surveillance of the Mines is completely independent and free to advise on what it wants to advise. It is also about the content of that opinion. There is therefore no material problem with regard to State supervision of the Mines. Of course you can hang the SodM under one ministry or the other, but material doesn't make any difference. I come to our responsibility for the permits. I will not say it for the third time, but the extraction of natural gas has been reduced, the number of earthquakes has been reduced, the NAM has been removed from the damage settlement process and 85% of the damage reports have been removed. A lot of results have been achieved at this point. I don't think it's one ministry or another. The cabinet is responsible and also the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Under my responsibility, we have done our utmost conscientiously to do what we believe is right for the people of Groningen, namely to solve the real problems they face as quickly and as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u128	I'd like to respond to what the Minister said a few minutes ago. I'm sorry about that, but it's happening really fast now. I paraphrased the Security Research Council. I myself did not say that the financial importance exceeded everything. I have said that the Research Council has concluded that there are too many interests in the hands of one ministry. The Security Research Council suggests that the various interests should be transferred to other ministries. In particular, the importance of safety in Groningen is mentioned. The Minister doesn't go into that. He's just saying that not only the financial importance is important. I'm just saying that the Security Research Council says take that apart, put it in different ministries. That is what I have argued in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u129	I have also been able to say a few words back, namely that the finances are absolutely not on the agenda. At no time has the issue been raised that finances stand in the way of doing what is necessary for the people in Groningen. The State surveillance of the Mines has not been in any way obstructed. It is completely independent, does what it wants and is fully supported in it. If it needs backup, it gets it. The conditions of authorisation are particularly important in terms of safety. If you have to issue the permits, you're gonna be in charge of security. There's no other way, because you have to make conditions for those permits. One ministry has to issue those permits. You can have those permits issued by I and M instead of by Economic Affairs, but that really doesn't change anything. My successor could end up on Economic Affairs, but it could end up on I and M. The people at I and M are doing their best very conscientiously, just like the people at Economic Affairs. So there's no problem with that either. I would point out that everyone in the government is very aware of their responsibility. In my view, the powers are organized in a proper manner. If other choices are made in the new cabinet, then we will see again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u130	The Minister does not discuss the benefits of housing in different ministries. In 2015, the OVV said: take the interests apart. The Minister responded: we are discussing it in the Council of Ministers and a decision is being taken there. In 2017, a few weeks ago, the OVV said that this is too late, that the ministries should be involved earlier, and that is best done by laying down the interests of the various ministries. That's different from what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u131	I understand there's gonna be a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u132	The Security Research Council has given a specification of its first recommendation, which I have said I will follow. I would like to say through you, President, to Mr Wassenberg that I will address this point in the response we will give to the Chamber on the second report of the Security Research Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u133	That's right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u134	Then Mr Wassenberg asked for a general pardon for the damages. At a general's pardon for the damage settlement, I can't imagine much. 'Cause what if you have three people next to each other who all have the same damage? The first gets €2,000 for that and finds that sufficient. The second one is asking for €10,000 and the third one is asking for €100,000. Then, if you pardon a general and give everyone what he asks, you create enormous legal inequality in an area and you don't deal with government resources responsibly. So you have to make sure, if you want to do justice to the people in the area, that you pay for that damage that's there, and that you do it smoothly and correctly. That's always happened. What has now been added from the consultation of the National Coordinator Groningen with the NAM, is that it has been said that the moment the NAM withdraws completely from the area and the National Coordinator Groningen takes over the direction of the damage handling, even in cases where the damage is not recognised, compensation is made. A sum of 49 million has been made available for this purpose. In those cases of unrecognized damage, an amount is still available to pay in kind, which can be met by the people who have reported damage. There you can achieve the result they want for 85% of the cases. This is not the case for 15% of the cases, because it concerns larger, more complex damages which are not recognised. The National Coordinator will look into how to make a contribution within this budget of 49 million. Furthermore, anyone who does not wish to do so can, of course, continue to follow the procedure that is possible, namely the use of an arbitrator and, where appropriate, the courts, with a reversal of the burden of proof. So what is happening now is that both the NAM withdraws and that although there is no general pardon, there is a concession for all those open files of unrecognized damages, including the 1,600 in the outside area, which we discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u135	In my opinion, earthquake damage has been looked at here in particular. The Mining Act, of course, talks about mining damage. It's wider than just the earthquakes. It is the whole system where people suffer from water levels, call it all on....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Doesn't the minister think it's a little weird that you're gonna buy that off with $1,500, "here's a voucher"? I do have a problem with that. Then they can go all the way into the formal trajectory, when they're actually just suffering from mining damage. That's exactly what I was hoping to avoid for the Groningers, who just didn't ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u136	The first concerns the 1,600 cases we have just discussed, which have therefore been established, after extensive and responsible research, that there is no relationship with natural gas extraction. If there is no relationship with the extraction of natural gas, the NAM is also not liable to damage. Also in the situation that the NAM goes out and the National Coordinator takes over the direction, no damage will be compensated that was not caused by natural gas extraction. Whoever's causing damage has to pay for it. If that is damage caused by the extraction of natural gas, the NAM's money must eventually become available and then it will be awarded under the direction of the National Coordinator. Since in that area, where it has therefore been established that no damage could be recognised there and therefore no damage could be compensated for on behalf of the NAM, it has been said that now that the NAM is withdrawing, we also want a new situation to arise in the Groningen area and that not only all the cases that have been recognised will be dealt with correctly, but also those that have not been recognised. An additional 49 million will be made available for this. I think this is a positive gesture that benefits the people in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u137	So I hear the minister here saying that he's ruling out all these cases from mining damage after all? That's what I hear the Minister say in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u138	It has been said by me that if there is damage caused by the extraction of natural gas, which is damage caused by the NAM and that the NAM will have to compensate for that damage. In the outside area, a large number of cases have been considered to establish a relationship between natural gas extraction and damage. On the basis of the investigation, it was concluded that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u140	I ask the same question again, because I can't get an answer to that. So the Minister does not rule out the damage caused by mining activities? That's what the law says. He's not talking about all the other forms, he's talking about mining damage. Is that what the Secretary of State's ruling out? I do hear other sounds from the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u141	I have already given the answer twice, but I will give it a third time. If damage is caused by the NAM as a result of natural gas extraction, the NAM must compensate for that damage. If the damage is caused by another person, the other person must compensate for that damage. If there is damage, it must be compensated by the person responsible for the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr Wassenberg asked how Groningen could contribute to the energy transition. Groningen is very interested in the energy transition. Initiatives are being developed in collaboration with the university, the university, governments and large companies. The House has expressed its support for this. I, too, have given my support to this. Groningen will play an increasingly important role in this transition in the future. This subject keeps our constant interest. It would be nice if an area that has had to deal with the negative effects of fossil energy could benefit from the positive effects of the transition to renewable energy. I have already touched on Mr Nijboer's points, including the position of Economic Affairs. The same applies to the additional amounts made available. I think I have had all the points made by Mr Nijboer. Mr Bruins asked why we did not complete the extraction at Loppersum. I brought that up. There's research going on to see how it can be below 1 billion. We'll see what comes out of that investigation. Mr Bruins also wondered why there was no reversal of the burden of proof for claims outside the Groningen area. That is because there is a provision in the Civil Code which states that the reversal of the burden of proof applies to the area of Groningen. For the rest of the country, it's not. However, in any individual case, for reasons which he finds convincing, the judge may decide to unilaterally lay the burden of proof on a particular party. It's possible all over the country. In cases where that is indicated, the court will undoubtedly make use of it. I have already touched on Mr Graus' points, including the independence of the National Coordinator. Parliament must be able to express itself about everything that is happening in the country. Mr Graus, as well as the other spokesmen and members of the Second and First Chambers, the People's Assembly, have the right to express their views on this matter and to address it to the government. There's got to be a minister who can talk to you. There must also be someone who can be heard for what the National Coordinator is doing. That's the Minister of Economic Affairs. I have a functional relationship with the National Coordinator. The legal relationship with the National Coordinator is also part of the draft law that is in preparation. The National Coordinator can function independently as the one in charge of an inter-administrative service. He does what is necessary for the people of Groningen on behalf of the governments, but his functioning must also be accountable. That's what I'm talking about. Mr Bosman said that in what happened in Groningen, he experienced the same dynamics as in what happened at the time with the Delta Works in Zeeland. I have that feeling, too. I am talking about what the Zeeuws faced at the time. We are not talking about the large number of victims and the enormous destruction that took place there, but about what had to happen next to get the case under control. If you see what needs to be done in Groningen to get the situation under control there, there is indeed a similar problem in some respects. That is why the government is making a very strong commitment to this, with some 250 people at the Centre for Safe Living and a similar number at the National Coordinator Groningen. The governments are working together and there are ongoing debates here in the Chamber, which show great involvement of Parliament. I therefore believe that what we are doing here, the money that is going on here and the efforts in terms of dynamism are indeed going in the same direction. Have I failed Mr Graus by turning to Mr Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, I'm not. Mr Graus is keeping an eye on it. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u145	I had asked the Minister another question and it was about the WOB request. I'll tell you why. Our group in Groningen has requested this, but it is making them very difficult. It is said that we need to know what in concrete terms. And then they give concrete words to what and then nothing happens. Then we get the feeling that something is wrong. That feeling should take away the Minister from me. I'd like to see that information, and I can. I myself took part in a parliamentary inquiry and it turned out that Members of Parliament are doing too little or not doing so in time. I'd like to do that in good time. So I would like to have that correspondence, the communication regarding buyout, reinforcement, damage recovery, contour maps and the Groninger Forum. So the communication between the National Coordinator Groningen, Economic Affairs and the NAM. I'm allowed to look into that as a government inspector, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u146	I don't want to enter into an ongoing procedure in Groningen. There is a Public Administration Act, established by the legislator. It must be applied, even in the case of Mr Graus. Then justice must also have its course. If the Chamber wishes information from me, I'd be happy to give it to you. I hope that if Mr Graus asks me for information, he will do so in a manageable way for me. So when he says, "I want all the information, I can't do much with that." But when he says: I have a need for information on this point, I would like to assume that that is the need for information from the Chamber and I will try to do so. I hope that this can be done in a targeted form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you for the commitment. It concerns correspondence and communication related to buy-out, reinforcement, damage recovery, contour maps and the Groninger Forum. I mentioned all that, so it's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u148	I don't think this is a targeted information request. We have people at work, we have annual reports and annual reports and we are accountable. However, there can certainly be additional specific requests. I would then like to have these requests addressed and not a general request like: send all correspondence between that and that about everything that is going on in Groningen. That's too common in traffic Chamber and government. I would like to discuss this with the Chamber or with Mr Graus to see exactly how I can meet Mr Graus' information needs. Mr Bosman expressed his support for the new damages settlement, at least for its approach, but he questioned the disappearance of parts of the current procedure. Mr Bosman will agree with me, I hope, that this current procedure did not ultimately work out satisfactorily for the people of Groningen and that it is good that the National Coordinator should come up with an alternative. He has already come a long way and has already gained considerable support for this. I am convinced that once it has been worked out in detail and when the picture is finally clear, after the discussions that are continuing, it will also be made clear to the Chamber. Then Mr Bosman can make a final assessment of that. Mr Bosman also spoke about the impact of the reinforcement operation. I don't think you can do that enough, because the impact of the reinforcement operation will be very large. I estimate that the spokesmen and my successor will have a lot to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you. We now move on to the second term of office. After that second term, I'll suspend for lunch. The Minister may then examine the motions tabled. After the break, the second term will then take place on the part of the government. I call Mrs Van Tongeren. Speaking time is 1 minute and 40 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u150	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Minister continued to reduce gas extraction to 21.6 billion cubic metres;]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Council of State considered that the extraction of gas from the Loppersum cluster is only permitted to the extent that the total amount of gas to be extracted cannot be extracted;]] [[noting that 1 billion cubic tons of gas has been extracted from the Loppersum cluster;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the intention of the Council of State ruling and to limit the extraction of gas at Loppersum to the smallest amount necessary for the so-called "flammation mode,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council (OVV) has recently updated its report;]] [[whereas the Council notes that much has been done and done, but that its original recommendations have not been implemented;]] [[calls on the government to initiate processes to fully implement the original recommendations of the OVV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Protocol on the settlement of claims is being revised;]] [[Whereas there is confusion as to whether earthquake damage, soil damage or mining damage should be compensated;]] [[Whereas legal causality is a different matter from physical causality;]] [[Whereas the burden of proof has been reversed in the gas extraction area;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the new Protocol is in line with the relevant Dutch legislation and to have a legal test carried out on the new Protocol by, for example, informing the Supreme Court or the President of the Court and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Graus, Van Veldhoven, Beckerman and Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-335]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Graus, Wassenberg, Nijboer, Beckerman and Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-336]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder, Graus, Beckerman and Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u151	I saved it in 1 minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u152	Excellent! You can do it; I know you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr. Chairman. "Stop sticking patches, but make a big gesture for Groningen," the OVV said last week. The OVV wants it no longer to be seen as a legal or technical problem, but also as a social problem. It's time to do something radically different, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council (OVV) concludes that the current approach is bureaucratic and procedural and does not contribute to the restoration of confidence;]] [[noting that the OVV states that sticking patches does not help, that problems should not be fragmented but should be addressed in a coherent manner;]] [[declares that Groningen deserves a great gesture;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a coherent approach that takes the human dimension and generosity into account and organises it independently of NAM and Economic Affairs so that confidence and perspective can be restored in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u154	Sometimes it seems like we're getting a step further. Suddenly, the Minister also seemed to recognise that we need to get the NAM out of the damage settlement and that your residents should not be allowed to fight multinationals. But the hope that it will be well will fade away when we read last week's letter from the minister. It's not an open trial again. Minister and NAM seem to be making another claim on the outcome. The representatives of the inhabitants, the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council, have decided not to talk anymore. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the representatives of the inhabitants, the Groninger Bottom Movement (GBB) and the Gasberaad, are withdrawing from the consultation on a new injury protocol;]] [[noting that they are doing so in response to a letter (33529 No. 330) of the Minister for Economic Affairs of 13 April 2017;]] [[considers that it is essential for the restoration of trust that a new harm protocol should be established with public support;]] [[whereas trust only arises in an open process;]] [[points out that the process of achieving a new injury protocol should be independent and open and that the final result should not be fixed in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Nijboer and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear who has responsibility for the security of supply and security of capacity of Groninger gas;]] [[calls on the Government, independently, to review what is necessary for security of supply and security of capacity, and to give the State surveillance of the Mines a role in this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Bosman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Graus and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-340]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u156	The questions on security of supply and security of capacity have been asked to the Minister here today. Following a question from Mrs Van Veldhoven, he has promised to involve State surveillance of the Mines and the independent committee of inquiry, but I just want to see that in the Chamber: what are the considerations, what about the various wells and how little gas can be obtained around Loppersum. I think it is very important that with his letter yesterday and also with what he said in the Chamber today, the Minister seems to really want to enter into an open dialogue with the inhabitants of Groningen, the Groninger Gasberaad, the Groninger Soil Movement and our directors there. That is what the CDA attaches to, not only for the Groningen people but also for the people who are indirectly involved in this. Those are the people who are currently excluded from the contours of the debt instrument, which I say very explicitly, as well as the people who live in Langelo, in the area used as storage capacity. They too suffer from the extraction of gas. I believe that they too are properly involved in this. I'm counting on the Minister to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u157	Mr. Chairman. I have two short questions that have not been answered in the first term and then two motions for resolutions. I had asked the Minister if the ceiling would remain at 30, now that the extraction ceiling is going down. Or is that also reduced proportionately? The second question concerned the state of play of the buying-in scheme. Perhaps the Minister could inform the Chamber in writing. I'm filing two motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Research Council for Security has recommended the establishment of one comprehensive scientific research programme on the subsurface so that independent knowledge about the subsurface becomes available;]] [[whereas EZ and NWO have launched research programmes but have not been established in conjunction with any research in these programmes;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the leadership of the research programmes, to establish a single, fully independent research programme and to ensure that the actual start-up of the investigations is accelerated and to inform the Court in June,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Graus, Wassenberg and Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u158	The second motion concerns the independent settlement of the damage. We've talked about that a lot. The motion is intended to record that process. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a new procedure for the settlement of damages is being developed, which has resulted in damage occurring since the end of March;]] [[Whereas it is important for the harmdoers to be helped quickly, in an independent and generous manner, whereby the money for the compensation ends up in the hands of the people rather than in the procedures;]] [[Considering that there are still concerns in the region about the current proposal and that the recent report of the Security Research Council and the report of the Guidance Committee contain a number of important recommendations on independent and generous damages handling;]] [[points out that the NCG should have the scope to establish a supported regime with the region for the independent and generous handling of mining damage, including the recommendations of the Security Research Council and the Advisory Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in mid-June of the results of the new scheme so that the settlement of the damages can be resumed quickly thereafter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Van Tongeren, Graus, Wassenberg and Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u159	I would also like to say to Mrs Mulder that, of course, 'the region' means anyone who suffers from this. As far as I am concerned, this includes the Langelo example she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u160	Mr. Chairman. We know the Minister as an enthusiastic advocate for renewable energy production, with all the interests at stake being well weighted and widely borne, but I regret to say that I did not try to embrace the idea of a concrete, targeted and broad-based gas extraction plan with the Minister. The year 2050 has been mentioned. He says gas will always play a role, but that doesn't mean gas is the last fossil fuel we're going to reduce? Make a start and put a dot on the horizon. A good phasing-out programme is immediately a good direction that we can give to the new scientific committee. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in particular, earthquakes and the risk thereof are a driving force for decisions to reduce gas extraction;]] [[Whereas this approach has led and continues to lead to an increased security risk for residents of gas extraction areas;]] [[Whereas this causes significant environmental damage and damage to buildings, and causes major financial and emotional damage to residents;]] [[expresses the desire to implement a phasing-out plan for the extraction of gas with clear steps and intermediate steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Graus, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations and compliments to Mr Beckerman and Mr Sazias for their maiden speeches. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Research Council for Security (OVV) concluded in 2015 and in 2017 that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the guardian of all debt instruments, often conflicting interests, such as the security of the Groningers, security of gas supply and the state treasury;]] [[noting that the OVV concludes that other ministries are involved in the decision-making on gas extraction too late, namely in the Council of Ministers, which makes a careful balance of interests insufficient;]] [[noting that the OVV recommends that careful decision-making requires the various and partly conflicting interests to be invested in different ministries, explicitly referring to the security interest as an independent interest;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan to invest the various interests involved in the mining of minerals in different ministries, including security interests at least in a different ministry than at the Ministry of EZ,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council (OVV) concludes that the current policy is too focused on the recovery of emerging problems and is not yet sufficiently focused on the future consequences of gas extraction;]] [[Considering that a vision of the future may provide a solution linking energy transition ambitions and regional challenges in terms of reducing gas extraction, population decline and employment;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a vision for the future which outlines the steps in which we can end gas extraction and how the Groningen region can be strengthened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Sazias, Mr Graus and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-344]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-345]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u162	I call Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA. I can see he's not filing any motions. But I think he co-signed a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. As a financial spokesman, I'm lucky I'm good at accounting. So I can keep track of the number of motions. I have chosen not to table a motion myself, especially since the most important decisions on gas extraction will be taken at the formation table. The PvdA will assess it in particular on three points. First of all, is the mix-up, the entanglement of interests broken? I am referring to the many hats on which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and NAM also wears in the conduct of research. That point is really important to regain confidence. Secondly, there is one point we have also mentioned today: will the people really have any influence in the discussions when they come back to the table, on how the damage is dealt with? I found the Minister, with whom I had a wide-ranging debate of interruption, somewhat reluctant. If the reversal of the burden of proof is not leading and if people do not have the opportunity to go to an arbitrator or ask for a counter-expertise, then it will not work with the damages settlement. Thirdly, a delta programme for Groningen is needed to give Groningen a future and perspective. All three things will be on the table at the formation. I'll judge on that. And you are right, Mr President: I have tabled a number of motions. I will support most of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u164	I now give the floor to Mrs Schouten, who is replacing Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u165	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to speak on behalf of my group. We're a little complicated in logistics, but we still wanted to file another motion. I would like to thank my fellow Members for allowing me to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Provincial States of Groningen a motion was unanimously adopted on an open process and human measure in a new damages protocol;]] [[Notes that:]] [[the recommendations of the Security Research Council should still be followed;]] [[the process of establishing the new Harm Protocol should be an open consultation in which the results are not established in advance and in which the input of disabled residents is secured through, inter alia, the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council;]] [[the new Harm Protocol should not only be a technical and legal approach, but should also be based on generosity and the personal circumstances of people;]] [[the new Harm Protocol should be able to count on public support and contribute to restoring confidence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr. Chairman. I, too, have signed several motions. If you're on the speaker list a little later, it's better to do that too. Of course, we have asked for a reduction in gas extraction and repair of damage and confidence. This is not just about compensation for economic damage, because there is also physical and mental damage, which cannot be expressed in money. That's very sad. I also talked about a buy-out scheme, earthquake-proof building and strengthening, independent measurement data and a well-stocked compensation fund. Like my predecessor, I have asked for the follow-up to the recommendations of the Security Research Council. I also asked for an independent management function at all levels, namely the municipality, the province and the national government. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the buy-out arrangements are in place by means of the Vos c.s motion. (32849, No. 110) Chamberwide, was requested to prepare and bring into force by September 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Bruins, Mr Nijboer, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u167	Carefulness is very important in this process, which will be shared by the Minister, but speed is also needed. It is not just about economic damage, it is also about physical and mental damage. Be that good shepherd, I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u168	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. In my speech, I spoke in particular about the broad consensus that is important. Mr Nijboer also mentioned the Delta Plan and the Delta Works. The crucial thing was that it was mainly a joint action and that everyone supported the same solution. Residents and administrators, whether it was Rijk, county or municipality, all had the same interest in getting started. I hope the same for Groningen. If we make agreements, we all have to stand by them and speak out about them in all publicity. I'm looking forward to the new damage protocol. The Minister has promised that this will go into an open dialogue with all the people involved. I very much hope that this will be widely supported and that we will be able to support it when it becomes known. Only in this way will we be able to increase confidence. If we keep seeing each time on different legs of different chairs, that broad confidence will not quite come. I thank the Minister and wish him every success in the coming period in order to find a good solution for the people of Groningen and to bring this damage protocol and the solutions to the problems in Groningen to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:45 p.m. Then we'll vote. After the votes we have the order of business. The Minister will then be given the opportunity to give an opinion on the motions.
