ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs to section K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 7 October, we read at NU.nl that the US Department of Commerce has significantly increased import taxes, namely to 300% for the Canadian aircraft manufacturer Bombardier. Bombardier happens to be the former supplier of the Dutch double-deckers, I say for the people who are interested in it. You'd say, "What's that got to do with us?" But indirectly this has affected a European country, Northern Ireland, which supplies parts. That's where it hits about 4,500 people. So it has already arrived in Europe. This American decision shows that US protectionist policies can affect Europe through other countries. It shows how vulnerable European employment can be. The consequences of this decision are now for the British, as there are 4,500 jobs at risk. Perhaps the next time will be the consequences for the Netherlands or for other countries we work well with or for which we are a supplier. That is why I have three questions for the Minister at first. Are there any signs for more of this kind of action from the US? Can the Minister indicate whether the motivation of the United States is based on facts? Important here is whether the State aid and US suspicions are based on real grounds, whether a court ruling is based. It cannot be that, as we sometimes say in the Netherlands, shots are fired from the hip. Can a measure such as this be challenged in a particular court, perhaps the World Bank or ISDS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Amhaouch is right to bring a point to the attention of the Chamber. It is quite something that America, which has always behaved reasonably in the world in terms of trade, is changing policy, in a way that is worrying. Mr Amhaouch was right to say that it primarily concerns Canada, but that it also reaches the European Union through Northern Ireland. He was wondering if there were any more of these signals. Yes, there are. In 2016 America has taken or planned some of these measures to the EU countries alone, and this year it has already been eight. So that is indeed an increase. Mr Amhaouch wondered whether this was based on facts. That is the question. Under the WTO Treaty, the World Trade Convention, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, you can only do so if you have shown that there is illegal subsidies and dumping. In addition, you have to prove that the companies in your country suffer from this damage. If that's what you've done, it's okay. If you haven't been able to prove that, you can't. Mr Amhaouch asked whether this could be challenged by the countries which are "threatened" by America in this way. It's possible. You can start an objection procedure at the WTO, whatever Canada is considering. Mr Amhaouch spoke of two measures. On 26 September the Americans who imposed an anti-subsidy charge on Bombardier aircraft and on 5 October they imposed an anti-dumping measure. They have to decide by 19 December whether they are going to go through with this and really make a case out of it. Canada can then object to the WTO. The European Commission has already said that it is following this closely and intends to work with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister is short on this and that he recognises the problem. I think it is a good development that the European Union is done by looking at the motivation as well, because we have a problem, whether we go left or right. Or America has no criteria; then it is based on quicksand and we as a Europe have a problem. Or Canada provides a lot of state aid; in that case we will have a problem with Canada in the future, but I do not expect that to happen for the time being. Mr. Chairman. I have a supplementary question. As far as these criteria are concerned, it would be good if the European Union could examine whether the US is also applying specific and strict criteria on the increases in these import levies. But also very important is the question of whether, for example, the US has already threatened imports of Airbus in Europe, we have the aircraft manufacturer Airbus, of which, for example, a dozen Dutch companies are suppliers or those charges have already been imposed. Mr. Chairman. So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch asks for criteria. The criteria that America applies internally are less relevant. The point is that the World Trade Convention stipulates that you cannot come up with such measures if you cannot prove that there is indeed illegal subsidies and dumping. Besides, you have to prove that your companies are the victims of that. So that's what America has to prove. In itself, I find it interesting what America does internally before it starts such a case. I'll see if there's any criteria there at all. At the moment, I don't have the impression that this is true. A number of things have started. It has been announced that these things will begin, but I have not yet seen that this is being done. So it seems to me that they're still looking a little bit in America, but I'm less interested in that. The point is that an international treaty has been concluded that has also been signed by America. They've got to stick to that. If they don't, there are opportunities to argue with that. Mr Amhaouch is asking for Airbus. I don't have the information right now that this would play. If that changes, I will inform the Chamber and therefore Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you again for the answer and for the answer that the European Union and the Minister are short on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	The VVD has also been concerned for some time about the protectionist attitude of America, led by President Trump. Earlier, we also asked Minister Ploumen about its impact on the Dutch steel industry. Trump has announced an investigation into whether he could regard the steel industry as a national safety issue and whether it could impose high levies. That could hit Tata Steel in the Netherlands. 10% of the production of Tata Steel in IJmuiden goes to the US. I wonder if the Minister could say a little more about that. Is there any clarity about American research and the commitment of Minister Ploumen to the US and the EU in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	I think it is right for Mrs Becker to bring this up, because for Tata, the American market is important. A substantial part of Tata's production goes to America. So it's good to keep an eye on that. Mrs Ploumen, whom I am currently replacing for her stay abroad, spoke with the US Secretary of State for Trade, Wilbur Ross. In any case, we can see that this has not yet led to anything in October, while America, Trump, began to suggest this as something he was working on in July. At the moment, therefore, there is nothing concrete that we can oppose. We understood the signal very well. The first talks have been on this. We'll keep an eye on it. As I have just said to Mr Amhaouch, Airbus and Tata are relevant things. I will therefore not hesitate to inform the Chamber if there are important developments on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
