ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Economic Affairs. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a very extensive debate a week and a half ago on the fipronil eggs and on the trade and walking of the NVWA and the issues in the sector itself. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance thinks it is fantastic that there will be an investigation, but we can draw a few conclusions on the basis of the debate and we should not wait a day to do so. In our opinion, the NVWA could have performed a lot earlier. That would have been extremely desirable. For this reason, I have wholeheartedly signed the motion that Mrs Ouwehand will be tabling on behalf of several political groups. In addition, I would like to make two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the poultry sector has a voluntary quality system, i.e. the IKB certification system;]] [[considers that certification by the sector itself can contribute to improved food safety;]] [[Whereas the IKB system is a voluntary system in which companies can participate throughout the food chain but are not obliged to do so;]] [[Whereas the public authorities may also make forms of certification compulsory, as has been done for example for asbestos rehabilitation;]] [[calls on the government to examine, together with the sector, whether the current IKB system could become more binding, for example by making certification mandatory for companies in the chain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Food and Waring Authority (NVWA) did not intervene after the tips in November 2016 because, at that time, there was no acute risk to public health;]] [[Whereas a broader balancing framework which took into account aspects such as economic impact, loss of consumer confidence and animal welfare could have led to a different conclusion on the usefulness and need of intervention;]] [[calls on the Government to involve such a broader balancing framework in the forthcoming investigation into the action of NVWA and the need for such a broader balancing framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-492]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. In a food scandal, the animals are the biggest victims, and this case is no exception. That is even more debatable, because it is not only morally reprehensible that animals have been sacrificed massively on the altar of the economy, but in this case it is also legally very controversial. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Animal Act recognises and establishes the intrinsic value of the animal;]] [[noting that the illegal use of a prohibited product in the poultry sector has resulted in more than 1.5 million unscathed chickens, at least at odds with the intrinsic value of the animal;]] [[calls on the Government not to negotiate with the legally established intrinsic value of the animal, nor, therefore, with regard to animals kept in business,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in November 2016 the Dutch Food and Waren Authority (NVWA) was tipped on the use of fipronil in poultry stables, including an explicit reference to the relevant company Chickfriend;]] [[noting that:]] [[the NVWA has the task of maintaining the authorisation of plant protection products and biocidal products and that fipronil is not authorised for use in the poultry sector;]] [[in November 2016, it was known that fipronil could enter animals, eggs and milk, including found by the European Food and Food Authority EFSA;]] [[However, after the tip in November 2016, the NVWA decided not to test eggs from which possible enforcement actions could arise, but limited itself to criminal investigations;]] [[enforcement was only launched after the Belgian Food and Goods Authority called in June 2017, when millions of chickens were already infected and countless eggs were contaminated;]] [[points out that appropriate intervention by the Dutch Food and Waren Authority would have been possible and highly desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-494]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Grashoff, Mr Futselaar and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	A very long one, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	It's a long motion, but she's also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes, but you must stay within the agreed time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I can now give the explanation or make it clear from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	No. Please read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in November 2016, when the NVWA was tipped on the use of fipronil in poultry stables, the decision to take enforcement action merely depended on whether there was an acute risk to public health;]] [[noting that the NVWA is required to maintain the safety of the food actually on the shelves on the basis of much broader criteria, namely exceeding the maximum residue level of a substance such as fipronil in eggs and exceeding the Acute Reference Dose in small children;]] [[noting that at the beginning of the food chain there is a much more limited criterion for enforcement than the standards laid down by law which food must meet at the end of the chain;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has not previously interfered with the NVWA's method of working because it wishes to have a preliminary examination of the lessons to be learned from the fipronil affair;]] [[noting that a food scandal such as the fipronil affair may recur at any time if the NVWA does not take into account the standards that should be maintained at the end of the food chain at the beginning of the food chain;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that NVWA is maintained immediately on the basis of food safety standards, including at the start of the food chain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr President, I understand your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	Otherwise, you will have to make an order to increase speaking time, but this is not fair. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	You're right about that. Perhaps a third-term proposal of order would have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. Several poultry farmers are still in uncertainty and have concerns about the future. That's not gonna be in the cold clothes for them and their families. The fipronil crisis in eggs has damaged consumers' confidence in our food safety, but fortunately that confidence is coming back. The question remains how this crisis could have been prevented and in particular whether the NVWA should not have acted differently after anonymous tips. I will reply in writing to the questions raised by Mrs Sorgdrager. In any case, I note that no questions are asked about the role of the political leaders. Can the Minister indicate the outcome of the informal Agriculture and Fisheries Council in the field of fipronil? Is the European Commission taking any further support measures? What does the Minister think about the Belgians' measure to set up a compensation mechanism? I hear that the NVWA no longer allows cleaning with a solution containing 3% hydrogen peroxide in the practical handling of the crisis. Is that right? How does this relate to the human use of hydrogen peroxide for lighter coloring of hair?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	Are you going to read the motions? Otherwise, you'll have the same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. President, don't worry. You will not receive any motions from the CDA on this point. In the lighter coloring of the hair, solutions with percentages up to 12 are used, I read. Furthermore, I hear that government support in respect of deferred taxes and accounting provides two days' work. Can't this be a little easier? Finally. What are the possibilities of part-time WW for the poultry sector? I understand that Social Affairs rejects requests to do so. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Spacious in time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	Nice. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. We have indeed debated the fipronil crisis in detail. A number of measures have been taken, but the Secretary of State has nevertheless said that unfortunately not all companies will survive this blow. We find that very difficult to digest, especially now that the bad behaviour and communication of the NVWA is actually the fault of that. We welcome the measures that have been taken, but they may not be enough. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has undertaken to defer payment of tax obligations to affected companies for a maximum period of 12 months;]] [[Whereas the financial situation of a number of companies is such that a one-year delay is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a report after six months to clarify the number of companies that have been affected by the fipronil crisis in such a way as to threaten the company's survival;]] [[invites the Government, where appropriate, to extend the deferment of payment for tax obligations and to inform the Court in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-497]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, we have only lost in the fipronil crisis. Millions of chickens have lost their lives without meaning. We've lost millions of eggs. We have lost millions of euros in economic damage. Another unknown number of poultry farmers is bankrupt or on the verge of it. The worst loss is probably the loss of confidence, of consumers in their food, of foreigners in Dutch products and of us in NVWA. That is why the SP has signed a proper critical motion. I would like to add that the criticism is mainly about whether the NVWA has the means and opportunities to do its job properly, and not the hard-working people at NVWA itself. Confidence has also been damaged in the self-regulation of the sector itself, which has not been able to find the remedy in good time. That leads us to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas surveillance in the poultry sector is increasingly being replaced by self-regulation by private parties with a commercial interest;]] [[noting that the system of self-regulation within the poultry sector has proved insufficient to prevent the use of a prohibited substance in a pesticide as such;]] [[considers that the monitoring of food safety, animal welfare, the environment and public health represent a public interest;]] [[considers that this public interest is currently not sufficiently guaranteed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which the principle of self-regulation by the sector worked during the fipronil crisis and also to examine the need for a stronger role of NVWA in the food chain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. Mrs. Lodders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, Mr Futselaar's motion deals precisely with the input to the research question before us. Why submit this motion and not do so in the written consultation on the question of investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	I've considered that, but it's still about a meeting. After that, we need to consider what the research question is. As I saw it, we are looking at how the self-regulation system worked, but I did not see the task of increasing the role of NVWA if it did not. That is why I think a more political statement in a motion is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Lodder, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. On 24 August we had a debate on the crisis that arose after the discovery of fipronil in eggs. A crisis where the poultry sector and the egg trade still experience the consequences every day. My group is very pleased with the research promised. In the meantime, a written consultation is under way so that the various political parties can provide input for the research question. We shall make use of it. In the debate we discussed a number of measures, such as postponing payment and postponing the collection of fees from the Animal Health Fund. My question is whether we can deal with this in an appropriate, good, non-bureaucratic way and whether, when it is clear that the deadline is too short, we can discuss it with each other. Mr Geurts has just asked a question about bureaucracy and the very strict rules of the Tax Administration. I also have another question, which has already been raised by Mr Geurts. A number of companies have indicated that they would like to make use of or need to regulate the reduction of working time. Can the Minister explain why a positive decision has not been taken at the moment? What are the reasons for that? Finally, on the subject of consultation in Europe. My group is very grateful to the rulers for paying great attention to this. I think it is extremely important that we agree on good rules and apply transparency in the same way. Perhaps the Minister can give us a little insight. The questions we have asked have been answered, but I am also looking hopefully at the summit at the end of September. We hope that concrete agreements will be made there, so that not only this crisis, but above all future crises, can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. I'll read the motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after consulting the European Commission, the Belgian Council of Ministers has decided to compensate affected poultry farmers;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide an indication in the short term of the total financial damage caused by the fipronil affair to the poultry sector;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine in the short term the scope for State aid rules to cover costs for the destruction of clean or contaminated eggs, for rowing or clearing of poultry, for sampling and testing, and for manure disposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Graus, Mr Hiddema and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	The Belgians have clearly decided to compensate. I have a press release from the Ministry of 1 September in front of me, which says: we are going to do so. Also included in terms as contained in this motion. For our poultry farmers, it is incomprehensible that this government in the Netherlands says: yes, but none of this can be done within the rules. Mr Bishop spoke on behalf of my group during the general discussion. Secretary of State Van Dam then said to him: just look at the rules, and you will see that. Well, the Belgians have a very different opinion. That goes for us, too. So we want that to be well figured out and we believe that the NVWA could have intervened earlier. That has been said before today, among other things by Mr Grashoff. I would also like to draw attention to the communication by NVWA. If she had done so otherwise, we believe that this would have led to less damage. Of course there is a piece of entrepreneurial responsibility, but simply placing it on the board of the entrepreneur does not match the mistakes that have been made. And so we think there should be compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	I see that Mr Geurts has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	Does Mr Dijkgraaf have a legal title to do so? There are a number of examples, for example in calf farming where a substance was also discovered at some point. If he opens this, they'll come after him. How does the SGP Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	"Yes, but if you do this, other things will come after you." That's another argument you can't do anything with state law. If the government makes mistakes and that leads to damage to entrepreneurs, then it has to compensate them, whatever comes after them. The question of the legal title is rightly raised. The Belgians see it clearly. They found it in an unforeseen incident. That gives them sufficient basis. Before they decided to do this, they also had preliminary discussions with the European Union on the question: do you think this is going to fly? Apparently, they have enough confidence that that's going to fly. If it's so important to the survival of the sector, you can't get away with just the argument "we think it's not going to fly"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I fully endorse Professor Dijkgraaf's words. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase both qualitative and quantitative enforcement and inspectors within the NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the survival of the so-called Animal Welfare Team within the NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current reporting code for veterinarians is an opinion;]] [[calls on the Government to make this reporting code mandatory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine what bottlenecks so-called "recalls" (track/trace) in food crises and/or scandals cannot take place within the specified four-hour period, to remove them or to ensure adequate FTE and/or an accurate functioning system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-500]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-501]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-502]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-503]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	I also had a brief debate on this with the Health Minister. She agreed with me that it should all take place within four hours, but because it does not happen, I tabled this motion as a stick behind the door. Then some explanation of the animal welfare team. That's team cattle. This seems to involve 15 to 30 employees within the NVWA who are particularly after polyplayers and animal executioners. So these people must never disappear. It seems that 6,000 hours are going to fall away and that should not happen at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. The fipronil crisis is worth this summer by the Netherlands with a very large economic impact for all poultry farmers and above all an adverse consumer confidence. D66 aims to address both impacts, the economic impact and the harmed consumer confidence, by strengthening the private quality system IKB Kip. The best promotion for Dutch products is to restore confidence in the control system that goes with it. My colleague Stientje van Veldhoven has received clear assurances from the Secretary of State. Please confirm by the Minister that, together with agricultural organisations and other chain parties, he will set up a working group to strengthen self-control in the chain and that if you certify, you will have to have that checked by independent bodies. And that's where D66 is at, because consumers and farmers need to know if they're dealing with a bunny or a bona fide business. A quality system is not for the stage. It has to do what it promises. Therefore, following the horse meat affair chainborging.nl has been established. Is the Minister prepared to make the notification and review by chainborging.nl compulsory? Given the number of notifications so far, there is no harm in encouraging them. Finally. Communication could be improved. That's what I thought when I read on RTL's website about granting an exemption for a breeding company: if you report it to us, that can be arranged. Later, RTL stated that this was deleted on its own initiative because the ruling was not entirely clear, according to you at the Spokesman's request for factual inaccuracies. Can this communication also be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	Do I hear D66 say here that if the chain assurance is better in order, we can trust that food safety monitoring is adequately regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	Private quality systems have been set up to give substance to the sector's own responsibility, which the farmers themselves have in accordance with the law. In practice, they do not always do what they promise. For this purpose, we have once established chainborging.nl, so that you can report there and then the NVWA will check whether the system works. Only, you can see that there are now about three systems logged in and approved. That's just not fast enough for me. IKB Kip should sign up as far as we are concerned, alongside the other systems. That's what our question is about. In addition, of course, the functioning of the NVWA can also be improved. There's been enough change of plans. For D66 the quality improvement of the private systems is the central issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Subsequently, the US and Economic Ministers will address the motions and questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. A crisis like this only knows losers. The consequences for many are acidic and everyone regrets that. It started with fraud and fraud is of all times. So it is crucial that we learn how to track this down faster and how to do it faster and better. If you can do this faster and better, you can also reduce the impact on consumers, entrepreneurs and animals. That is why we have asked Mrs Sorgdrager to carry out an investigation. How did it end in this crisis? That research must be completed by the end of this year, because we can quickly make those improvements again. And in that investigation everyone's role must be assessed, I say to Mr Geurts. I think that's crucial. The whole chain! That's how the piece we sent you was built. That starts where it starts. It starts in one of those stables. That's where it starts. Eventually it unwinds and then every link has something. Eventually, you're gonna get into surveillance. If you look at this, I believe that under point three, the way the various actors, private and public, have acted in dealing with the crisis, it says: what was the role of the departments in supervising crisis handling? The departments, that's us, because they do everything for us in consultation and by order. So that's where it starts. Then we have a whole zipper of questions that you can ask. When were they even informed? What steps have they taken? How was the cooperation between these different parties? So how was the cooperation between the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Agriculture or Economic Affairs? How did the government communicate with the entrepreneurs? So then you're gonna come over and maybe that's where the confusion is with the departments and the government. And that's us, of course. We are in that last step under point 3. If you think there are any further questions to ask, then we are very much in favour of this, precisely because this is not about black people. I think we should learn from this. The departments, and therefore the politicians who run these departments, must learn from this crisis. Mr President, we have divided the motions among ourselves. If I skip motions, that means that the Minister of Economic Affairs will answer them. I'll start with the motion in part No. 493 by Mr Grashoff. It invites the government to include such a broader balancing framework in the forthcoming investigation into the action of the NVWA. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, it can certainly be included in the investigation. There is also a written round and so he will probably bring it in through that written round. But I think it's fine to include this in the investigation. Then the motion in part No. 495 by Mrs Ouwehand cum suis. It states that more appropriate intervention by the Dutch Food and Waring Authority would have been possible and highly desirable. I think this is a premature motion, because this is exactly what we should investigate. I would imagine that this motion would be held until Mrs Sorgblader came forward with her findings. If this motion isn't held, I find it really weird that you're asking someone to investigate something when you've already reached your conclusion. Then I'd like to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 496 by Mrs Ouwehand and calls on the government to ensure that NVWA is maintained immediately on the basis of food safety standards, including at the start of the food chain. The NVWA must, of course, always maintain consistently. Whether that went well is part of the investigation. I would therefore advise against this motion. I do that separately from all the observations, because then you have to check whether you agree exactly. We need to learn how to do this better. Because it will be ready by the end of the year, we can do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Does the cabinet realize that it is deliberately running the risk of this affair repeating itself for months? The documents of the cabinet itself have shown very clearly that at the beginning of the food chain a very narrow criterion is there an acute danger to public health? While a much broader set of criteria, namely food safety standards, was rightly maintained later in the food chain. If you don't weigh that at the beginning of the chain, you know that it can happen again, because at the end of the chain you have to put the enforcement in order. The cabinet opts for research, but in the meantime this situation remains and therefore risky. That's what the motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	Of course, we also had a lot of exchanges in the debate on that November. The Secretary of State indicated that it was not an acute food safety hazard at that time. But that doesn't mean nothing happened. It was also included in a criminal investigation, because it was a substance you weren't allowed to use and therefore didn't belong there. The NVWA receives 18,000 tips and notifications; everything comes in. I can tell you that this will only increase with the new information systems, with apps you can send. What I think is important is that we work together to see how the NVWA can do this better. That it did not go well, we can all see afterwards. I think it is important to ask Mrs Sorgdrager and her team: do you have any ideas? Should that be another way? How can we better guarantee the things that we find important in this? So I think this is really an important part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	My question was whether the cabinet realises that it will knowingly allow a risky situation to exist until the investigation is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	I'll fight that. Many substances can be used in many situations. The issue was that a substance should not be used in a stable, but was used. However, the experts did not consider the risk to public health of the substance returning to eggs to be so great. You can ask if that was a good judgment. Can this be better and how should it be better? I think it is important to wait for the investigation to do so. Then you can expect Mrs Sorgbearer to say: here and here you are vulnerable and so you need to improve it sister or something. Then you actually know what you're doing on the basis of an investigation that took place. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 503 by Mr Graus. This motion calls on the government to examine what bottlenecks so-called "recalls" in food crises and/or scandals cannot take place within the specified four-hour period, then to remove them or to ensure sufficient FTE or an accurate functioning system. What I regret about this motion is that it goes straight to fte and the conclusion that the system would not be good. If Mr Graus wants to take this, I have no problem with it. I think it's a great idea, and I think it's very important. But I would leave out the phrase behind the comma, because it already gives an explanation, as if you already know what it is. So if Mr Graus would like to amend his motion to that effect by taking that conclusion out, I think it is a good idea to include that in the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'd like to take the Minister's advice with me. For the record, I had written "and/or." I hadn't written "or an accurate functioning system." But at least I'll get rid of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yeah, 'cause maybe it's something else. But it is good to look at it, because those four front and back in our system is, of course, crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm going to amend the motion as the Minister would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you. We're just waiting for the Minister of Economic Affairs to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman. I attended the informal Agriculture Council meeting last Tuesday in Tallinn. Of course, I had my input at that meeting, but I also spoke separately with the Commissioner, Mr Andriukaitis. I have also spoken a little longer with my colleagues Ducarme from Belgium and Schmidt from Germany, and even shorter with my colleague Travert from France and our Estonian colleague Tamm, who led the Agriculture Council as chairman. I stressed that the best possible exchange of information and cooperation, as well as harmonisation in the application of the standards of communication and warning, are of great importance in Europe. It is very nice that we have standards and that we stick to them and want to do so, but there is a real need for clarity in applying them and everything around them. The Commissioner himself emphasised this. He said that there are now 26 countries in Europe where one way or another is dealing with the fipronil crisis. The sources are also in several countries. He said that it is quite clear that the whole issue is based on criminal acts and that it is very good that they are being addressed now, including by the judicial authorities in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. We will therefore have to discuss this with each other on 26 September, so that we can do what we can to ensure that there is more harmonisation and more coordination, so that there is a more uniform application of standards throughout Europe. The Commissioner asked for proposals from the Member States. I have agreed with my colleagues from France, Germany and Belgium that there will be four proposals for this and that we will present them to the Commissioner. I think that this can be very helpful in getting results quickly. I have also explained to my fellow Members how we seem to control the situation in the Netherlands, and I have indicated that we are going to carry out a thorough investigation before the end of the year, and we will see what lessons we can draw from the various aspects that are at issue and what improvements can be made. I have indicated that we will share this with our colleagues, as well as we hope that we will receive information from them about lessons they take in their countries as a result of what has happened. I'm on my way to the motions now. I shall then turn to the questions raised by Mr Geurts, Mrs Lodders and Mr De Groot in particular. In the motion in part No. 492 Mr Grashoff asked the government to examine, together with the sector, whether the current IKB system could become more binding. During the debate we were allowed to have with the Chamber in the recess, the Secretary of State promised that he and the sector would take the initiative to come up with a plan to strengthen self-control. We believe that it is very important to do so and that it should also produce results. We have agreed to report back to the Chamber in six months' time. I recommend that the Court await the outcome of that consultation, assess the report and then, if necessary, give a ruling if it considers that the conclusions drawn by the government are not the right one or the full one. I therefore recommend to Mr Grashoff that we hold this motion until we have done what I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	I am somewhat surprised at the Minister's reaction, because I am asking for this to be examined in conjunction with the sector. I therefore believe that it is complementary to what the Secretary of State has promised to do, and that is what it is intended to do. You can look at how you can improve a system and I'm suggesting that you include an option in that investigation to make it more binding. In my view, therefore, the logical time is right now to add that to the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	The point is that we would like to do this research without burdening it with the suggestion that the solution is to give it a binding character through certification. It is very conceivable that this will happen. Of course, that is one of the possibilities in the investigation, but I do not think it makes sense to make a ruling on this as a Chamber at the moment. That is my view. That is why I suggested to Mr Grashoff that we hold that motion until the results of that investigation are known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	It is now up to you to say what you intend to do with this motion, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr President, I am not going to hold her. But in my view there is also a bit of misunderstanding with the Minister, because I do not ask for a ruling on whether or not it is binding. I would ask you to examine it so that the Chamber can make its judgement on it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	It goes without saying, of course, that when that is done, when they are going to investigate it, all the possibilities will be discussed. What matters here is that the Court of Justice, before that investigation has been carried out, let alone that there is a report, focuses on one of the possible outcomes and thereby puts pressure on the investigation. I don't think that makes any sense. That is why I have made a request to Mr Grashoff. Is he holding on to the text of his motion in part No. 492, then I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr De Groot, this is about Mr Grashoff's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	I have a factual question to the Minister, namely what is the coverage rate of IKB Kip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	It's almost complete. Exceptionally, there are companies that do not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	Then there's the motion in part No. 494 by Mrs Ouwehand. It calls on the government not to bargain with the legally established intrinsic value of the animal and therefore not in the case of animals kept in business. Of course, it's not the government's policy to go and negotiate. The Animal Law recognises the intrinsic value of animals. It follows that the importance of the animal in making decisions is clearly weighed. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. That's done in all the underlying decisions. It also follows from that law that production animals may be killed. It is up to the holder to make a trade-off and to make that a careful consideration. The Court ruled on 4 August and confirmed that, even in the case of economic reasons, poultry farmers may kill animals, taking into account that they are animals intended for consumption and are therefore killed at any time. In any case, that judge gave a ruling on that. Of course, the Cabinet implements the law, I enforce the law, and negotiating is not something that belongs to our policy. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 495 by Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Then I have the motion in part no. 497 by Mrs Sazias, who asks the government to extend, where appropriate, defer payment for taxable persons and to inform the Court in good time. The Secretary of State for Finance may defer payment of tax in case of liquidity problems. That's the law. That is Article 25 of the Recovery Act, and he has to comply with it. That delay is a maximum of 12 months. Those are the frameworks that need to be applied, and that has happened. This means that I cannot but reject a request which is what I have just said and which means that a report must be submitted after six months. We must apply the law on this point. I believe that a delay of up to 12 months is also sufficient in a situation like this, also in view of the other measures in the package discussed by the Dutch Government together with the banks. The motion in part No. 498 by Mr Futselaar. He says that the government should examine the extent to which the principle of self-regulation has worked and also examine the need for a stronger role of NVWA in the food chain. The design of the investigation I sent to the Chamber. We also invited your room to respond. My colleague has already mentioned this. I understand that the Chamber has planned a written consultation on this matter. I think we should wait and see. I also think that it has become clear that we have indicated what we believe should be investigated, but that we would like to pass on the concerns of the Chamber to Mrs Sorgdrager. I therefore believe that this has made the matter sufficiently clear. The motion in part No. 498 I don't recommend. I'll come to the motion in part No. 499, by Mr Dijkgraaf and others. They ask the government to provide an indication of the total financial damage and to examine in the short term the scope for State aid rules. We have made an initial study of the core of the sector affected, namely laying hens. Turns out there was 33 million dollars worth of damage. We will now find out what damage you will suffer if you look at the whole sector, a sector of which, of course, other companies are also part. We expect to have an insight into this at the end of this month. The motion concerns the search for space in the state aid rules. I do not think this should be said by the Chamber. That is why I am against this motion. I believe that these state aid rules are reasonable. I believe that we in the Netherlands have an application of those state aid rules which is in line with the intentions of the European Commission. I understand that a different choice has been made by Belgium, but I also understand that this choice, which would have been made, has not yet been reported to the European Commission. The European Commission therefore has no opinion on this either. In any case, we have a fixed line of compensation. In this case, it is also remarkable, because in other cases where we have not given compensation, there was no fault in the sector. I'm thinking of falling with heavy hail showers. Now there is a problem that has been caused by fraudulent action and the way in which the sector has dealt with the control of companies that are allowed, and of the resources of companies that are allowed in its own business. So I guess there's no reason to deviate from the line we have right now. This means that we are doing things that fit within the state aid rules, namely postponing payments: tax payments but also other payments. And together with the banks, we ensure that healthy companies can continue. In doing so, we are also prepared to apply the state-owned guarantee schemes. I believe that cooperation with banks can also provide the right solutions for healthy companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	I do not really hear the Minister say that compensation is by definition contrary to those state aid rules. This compensation will always be partial compensation, also because of the company's own responsibility. If the Minister were to say that this is by definition contrary to State aid rules, it would be a clear statement in itself. The Belgians doubt that, and so do I. But I hear the Minister doesn't say either. I'm actually tasting a political choice. Does the Minister actually say: I think what we are doing is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr President, the state aid rules allow for such situations in cases which, in my view, are not comparable to the situation currently prevailing in the Netherlands. We have a steady line in terms of state aid and compensation. On that line, so far, we've held each time. If we were to deviate from that this time, and also opt for a derogation in a case where the damage was caused by fraudulent activity within a sector, we would create a precedent that is very undesirable. Moreover, our line of work has so far applied within the State aid rules. I do not think that enlargement is part of it and does not fit in with it. I understand that Belgium intends to do something else. I have already said that this has not yet been registered in Europe. We will see whether this is notified and then what the European Commission's views are on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	The Belgians have clearly indicated in a press release dated 1 September that they will report it. The package's there, too. More importantly, however, I believe that this area does exist within the State aid rules. There's at least a discussion about it. Then why don't you find out? All the more so since the appeal is not for fraudulent action; that would be a special appeal. I have indicated here that the appeal would be based on the fact that the NVWA could have acted earlier and the communication of the NVWA. There are still a few things. So that is a completely different title, on the basis of which you can apply those state aid rules in such a way that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	I shall go into the last point because I am afraid that Mr Dijkgraaf misunderstood me there. As regards the first, it may well be that the Belgians have a package and that they will report it to the European Commission. I have said that it has not yet been notified and that, if it has not yet been notified, there can still be no opinion of the European Commission. I myself believe that the line we have always consistently followed in the past is within the framework of state aid rules. This has also been demonstrated in practice. I also believe that the package we have, the combination of deferment of payment and guaranteeing banks so that they can continue to finance healthy businesses, is an adequate whole. Now, about what I said about this fraudulent act. We have therefore consistently applied the line we have had in the past, for example in the case of bird flu and hail damage. But now there would be a deviation from that line, and it is also true that it is not something that is entirely outside the companies but something that has been caused by private action in the sphere of companies. That is therefore an additional reason not to deviate from the steady line we have had in the past and which I believe we must also hold on to. It's not like I'm just saying no. I believe that the package that we offer together with the banks is an appropriate package, and that fits into the state aid rules at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mrs. Sazias, you have a question about your previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	No, I'd like to get on with this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	Well, I'd rather not, because it's a motion from Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but that's what I'm responding to. It bothers me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	But you're under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	Only the first proposer can say anything about this. So I'm sorry. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	I want to ask a factual question, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	Yes, I hear you are all getting tips from Mr Dijkgraaf!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am very grateful for that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	It bothers me, however, that the Minister is putting the sector all the way, and does not assume that a large part of this crisis has been caused by a public institution. The Belgians did consult with the European Commission. My question is: has the Minister had any discussions on this with his Belgian colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	That wasn't a factual question, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr President, do you wish me to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then I say that the cause of the crisis lies with the company Chickfriend, which used a drug, Dega-16, which was not allowed to fight blood lice and also a means in which it was processed, fipronil, which was not allowed to do so. We then found that a number of companies did not check whether those who fought blood lice in the company had the necessary qualifications for that. Nor has it been checked whether the funds used were authorised. That is where the problem lies. The NVWA then responded to it. The way in which the NVWA responded to this, we have had a lot of exchanges. We also agreed to investigate this. Only when the results of the investigation are available will I be able to have a view on the action of the NVWA. Not at the moment. I'll wait for that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 500.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr Graus asked the government to increase the quality and quantity of enforcement officers and inspectors within the NVWA. At the NVWA we have implemented a reduction in capacity over the last ten years. KPMG has established that there is an efficiency potential in the organisation. We have said that we want to exploit that efficiency potential. In addition, we agreed that in the Multiannual Financial Framework, 23 million from the EZ budget will be made available to the NVWA. This, together with the improvement plan of the NVWA, "NVWA 2020," will allow adequate, effective and risk-oriented supervision. We will learn from the crisis that has been going on. We shall see what the recommendations of the Sorgdrager committee, consisting of at least Mrs Sorgdrager, are. We will then be able and will also be able to look at the possible consequences that will have to be drawn from them. But I don't want to anticipate that. At the moment I think that this motion by Mr Graus is premature, so I would advise against his motion in part No. 500. I'll come to the motion in part No. 501, in which Mr Graus asked the government "to ensure the survival of the so-called Animal Welfare Team within the NVWA." I assume that Mr Graus means the animal welfare workers who visit the attention companies. These are companies where there is often neglect due to deteriorating economic conditions or due to social or mental problems among those running the business. If that is his intention with this motion, I see the motion as supporting policy and then I leave the judgment on the motion in part no. 501 left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	You have tabled another motion, Mr Graus. Why don't we wait and see what we have to say about that? Then you can respond afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	In his motion in part No. 502 calls on Mr Graus to make compulsory the code of reporting for veterinarians. I assume that he is referring to the voluntary code of the veterinarians which aims to ensure that veterinarians report neglect to attention companies. There's an agreement framework for the heirs, so everyone who comes to the yard. It has been agreed to collect early signals and to make them negotiable. This concerns banks, feed suppliers, veterinarians, dairy companies and other parties. I think this is a good approach. It is a question of culture: you come somewhere, you notice something and then you report it. The fact that all those participating parties I mentioned have said that they want to do so is very useful. I am happy that the veterinarians themselves will add a reporting code to that, but I do not think that it is necessary to go further and make this compulsory, and that is why I have tabled Mr Graus' motion in respect of item No. 502 detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	My motion to part No. I submit 500 just about every year. I'll put her back to the vote. I seem to be right every time but not to get it, unfortunately not from the Chamber either. Will the Minister also look at the qualitative increase? Then I mean the training. I also told the Minister of Security and Justice yesterday: a lot of investigators, enforcers, inspectors, animal police officers or NVWAs don't know how to translate the letter of the law into a report, so that a lot of animal executioners and other repeaters, recidivists, come out of the dance. Could this minister also take this with him in the training? They're gonna start with Security and Justice, and I'd appreciate it if this minister would give that to the NVWA as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	I think this is a valuable signal from Mr Graus that we should pick up and also discuss with the leadership of the NVWA. I agree with Mr Graus that if you want justice, criminal law, to be properly dealt with against things that are wrong, there must be a proper record. If Mr Graus, on the basis of the signals he has received and on the basis of his experience, has the impression that there are shortcomings, that is a signal that is significant to me and that I will also discuss it with the leadership of the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	I shall come back to the motions on the items Nos. 501 and 502, because I was allowed to do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	The Minister has the opinion on the motion in part No. 501 left to the Chamber. You should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	I thank the Minister for that. The animal welfare team has to turn in 6,000 hours. That's what I meant. The minister didn't quite know which team I was referring to. It's supposed to be 15 to 30 FTEs. I believe 15 to 28 FTEs. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his commitment to this. I would like to thank him for his support and for leaving the vote on the motion to the Chamber, as I have to say. The motion in part No. 502 is about the reporting code for veterinarians. I filed that motion for the following reason. In the case of large mixed practices, those are practices where they treat pets and also farm animals....................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are often more than ten of them. Those vets work there for a hunger wage. They dare not report anything because they often have problems with their boss, the owner of the veterinary practice. If it becomes an obligation, then dozens of veterinarians per practice may also be more, but in any case more than one veterinarian report without being punished by the owner. After all, they have to report it. Now they won't dare. They're afraid of losing their job at vet practice. So we have to protect those people!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	I believe that it has been concluded in the veterinary environment itself that it is useful to come up with a code of conduct in addition to the agreements I have talked about, the framework of agreements for heirs. We are convinced that the veterinary group should do so itself. I think it's very sensible that they do that. I also think that this kind of thing, making notifications, is mainly a question of culture. You have to understand that that has to happen when you run into it. You have to agree that you're gonna do that and that you're gonna talk to each other about that, too. You can't get the furthest from just making rules. You get the furthest when all heirs are convinced of that and when the vets put a shovel on top of it. That was the reason for Mr Graus' motion, the motion in part No. 502, not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr Graus, this discussion has been discussed extensively in the debate. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	This was not discussed during the general consultation. I fed it myself. This has really not been discussed. It is a question of getting paid vets into trouble. They can't report it from their boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	We need to protect those vets by setting up a mandatory code of reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	I believe that, as far as what Mr Graus describes is concerned, these veterinarians are protected by the code of conduct which the veterinary group itself intends to draw up. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Geurts asked whether the Commission could propose further support measures. The Commission has not indicated that there will be support measures. It pointed out the existing rules on State aid and compensation. As was the subject of an exchange of views with the Chamber, I did call on the Commission to use the crisis reserve of the so-called EU promotional regime. The Commission has not responded to this. There was also no enthusiasm from the participants in the meeting. It was stressed that these were exceptional circumstances which were formulated differently from what happened here with fipronil. This concerns the case of a crisis caused by criminal acts. That must then be looked at in this way and responded to. So I do not expect support from the European Commission. That is why I like to stick to what we set up in the Netherlands and what I have just been able to describe. Mr Geurts has also asked how I see the Belgians' measure. The Belgians have used a different line. That's up to them. They themselves explain the European Commission's State aid framework. We do, too. Our explanation falls within that State aid framework. That has also been shown in the past. Whether that with which the Belgians come in also falls in there, I have to wait and see. That is what the European Commission is talking about. We'll see. For the time being, a Member State cannot act by way of derogation from the European Commission's view on State aid. This applies to the Netherlands, but also to the Belgians. Mr Geurts has also asked why we do not allow more than 3% of hydrogen peroxide when cleaning the stables. He also appears to have experience with, at least knowledge of, the coloring of her. He says that percentages up to 12 are used, by people I understand. Use of hydrogen peroxide higher than 3% is not allowed in stables as this may cause breathing problems for chickens. In empty stables this is allowed because this risk does not occur. This is based on the College's rules of use for the authorisation of plant protection products and biocidal products. I think we should stick to that and that the stables can be cleaned by a percentage up to 3 and no more. Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders asked about the bureaucratic nature of the delay. In order to postpone payment, in particular by the Tax Administration, it is necessary for it to be a company that is viable at its core and that there is a real prospect of payment. You can't postpone if there's no prospect of payment. In order to determine whether the company is viable at its core and whether there is a real prospect of payment, any accounting work should be carried out. That's inevitable. We will address this in the discussions with the sector to see if this is done in a good and practical way. That is why we will also consult with the Ministry of Finance, with a view to ensuring that this is done properly, but as smoothly as possible. Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts pointed out the possibility they assumed of applying part-time WW in the poultry sector. The part-time WW is only applied by us in the Netherlands under exceptional circumstances. This crisis has been caused by human actions. This does not fall within the definition we use in the part-time WW for exceptional circumstances. Part-time-WW is actually a form of compensation, because you take part of the salary on behalf of the collective through the application of the WW. If you were going to do that, that would be a precedent. In this crisis in this sector the part-time WW does not apply, the cabinet's position is. Mr De Groot asked for confirmation of the commitment to set up a working group looking at self-regulation. This commitment was made in general consultation. He asked if I am willing to make registration and review by chainborging.nl mandatory. I await the results of that working group. I'm not stopping anything. We'll see what the working party's gonna come up with. Depending on their proposals and arguments, we will take a stand. I don't rule it out, but I don't want to anticipate it either, because that doesn't seem useful to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	The other commitment of the State Secretary was that he was willing to have certification checked by an independent body. That would therefore be part of that working group. The D66 Group's suggestion is a practical one. Can you confirm, in whatever form, that that review is still in place through the commitment to an independent body review of that private quality system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr De Groot has a view on this. He's been thinking about that. I think it would be useful to share his views with the working group. I'm not taking anything away from the Secretary of State's promise. I shall give Mr De Groot's view. Mr De Groot also spoke about the communication issue with RTL and had specific questions about it, which he also wrote to me. I answered that; that came in this morning. I think those answers are satisfactory for Mr De Groot. If that's any different, I'll see him come back to that. But here's just the question of a normal interaction between a journalist and a minister spokesperson, a communication officer. When it is found that there is a misunderstanding, sometimes something is asked and sometimes something is said. I think that normal interaction has taken place here, too. It aims to ensure proper and careful communication, in which both sides have an interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	I am satisfied with this answer. All I can see is that there is another reading at RTL of what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	This brings us to the end of the VAO. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
