ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the people sitting in the public gallery and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk as the first speaker on behalf of the PvdA Group. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, good morning and thank you very much. This debate we, the Labour Party, have requested following a study, a collaboration between VU, Radboud University and Utrecht University, which shows that a native applicant with a violent crime in his name is three times more likely to have a positive reaction than someone with a migrant background. Another study that shows that discrimination is commonplace in the workplace, unfortunately. The figures on discrimination in the labour market are disgusting. For many employers, arrivals seem to weigh more heavily on job applications than a criminal record. We have concluded it before in this Chamber: we find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to make two comments on Mr Van Dijk's first two sentences. The study was not about discrimination in the labour market but about whether as a delinquent you have a better chance than someone who is not a delinquent or has the same chance of being invited to a job interview. A sub-conclusion was not the purpose of the investigation, but it was a sub-conclusion that people with a name that is not original come from the Netherlands have a slightly less chance. In addition, it was not about discrimination in the workplace, but about whether you have a chance to be invited. I think this is keeping the debate pure and simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Just so we're clear, applying is part of the job, whether you get the job or not. That's kind of crucial. It's a job market: do I get a job or not? In fact, the investigation initially investigated what it means when you have a violent crime in your name. But something very special came next to it. That is what the researchers themselves have concluded, namely that people with Arab surnames are invited three times less often. That is a shocking result, as the researchers themselves say. Essentially, this is about how our labour market works. Do we all have equal opportunities at work, wherever we come from today or whatever we believe? Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands must have the certainty that he can move forward in life, regardless of where he grew up, what he believes or what his name is. Everyone deserves a fair chance at a job. This is not only good for applicants, but also for employers, who are now missing out on a lot of talent. Equal opportunities for jobs: that is one of the security we stand for. I think that's true of several parties in this Chamber. Good employers therefore not only give Anton but Ahmed a fair chance. Unfortunately, this investigation shows that Anton is three times more likely to have a positive reaction than Ahmed without a criminal record. So equal opportunities do not come on their own. It's gonna take more than that. Minister Asscher has taken good steps with the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan. A cabinet should go further with that. But we don't just ban discrimination with legislation. Of course, we in the Lower House must do everything we can to ensure equal opportunities for work and equal treatment in the workplace, by rules of play, by laws, by action plans, but ultimately it is a cultural change. We must realise that diversity in the workplace is a force and a reflection of our society. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight three important areas of action. First of all, we want more enforcement and we want it to be made easier to report labour market discrimination, whether on the basis of age, gender, origin, disability, pregnancy or sexual orientation. Secondly, as a large employer, the government has a leading role to play. We regret that this is now necessary, but in order to give everyone an equal chance, we believe that anonymous application should become the norm for public authorities and semi-public institutions. This is a horse's tool, and it is also sad that we have to do this, because in the end it is about changing the culture in the workplace. In particular, public authorities and businesses will have to work on diversity in the workplace, so that diversity becomes the norm rather than the exception. The assumption policy lies with many companies in the HRM department and HRM functions. This group is crucial for breaking the existing business culture, but it is also the employment agencies and the employers' trade associations. What do employers' umbrella organisations VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands do? And how can we speed this up? That is also my question to the Minister. Finally, Mr President, we want to improve the reporting of companies and public authorities on a proportionate reflection of society. Companies and governments that do well deserve praise for this. Organisations which are found to be structuralally disadvantaged should be affected by this by taking-and-shaming. Mr. Chairman. It's 2017. It is sad to see again in a study that labour market discrimination is still structurally present in many companies. Should we accept that? No, never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Pregnant women don't get contract renewal. Older people aren't hired because of prejudice. A boy doesn't get an internship because he's gay. And, of course, the saddest reason for this debate today: even ex-criminals with a criminal record have a better chance on the labour market than Dutch people with a migration background. Mr. Chairman. Being discriminated against on any ground is one of the nastiest things that can happen to you. It affects your dignity and can be incredibly demotivating. I can talk about it. When I decided as a student to find a job that joined my studies, I didn't get anywhere. Because I was not invited each time, I started responding to the same vacancies with a friend who, according to the standard, has a Dutch-sounding name. And it turned out, she was invited and I never, when I had more experience. After almost a year of trying, I responded to one last vacancy. Professor Beunders was looking for someone who could translate his articles into English. He did something remarkable: he sent all applicants a text to translate. I'm glad I got that job. Why? Because Professor Beunders looked at what I could, instead of my origins. Mr. Chairman. I tell my personal story because as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the key has to be there. In the labour market, we must eliminate unconscious prejudices, which we all do, and select only by competences. That is why GroenLinks is in favour of trials with anonymised applications and competence tests. Can the Minister state exactly why he doesn't want to continue with the pilot anonymized application? Where there is deliberate discrimination there is also a lot; let us say that we must act hard. More enforcement, more inspection, my party has always been committed to that. Mr. Chairman. In 1986, the first study of discrimination in the labour market appeared. Do you remember what the title was? The Registry, maybe? The title was "May it also be a foreigner?" Fortunately, today we have a slightly different terminology, but the conclusions were not mild: ethnic discrimination in the labour market is structural and persistent. Unfortunately, Mr President, after 30 years and research after research, it appears that little has changed. Apparently we haven't quite caught up with the cow all along. Because if you look closely at all these investigations, you can see that those unconscious prejudices are actually a symptom of a deeper challenge in our society: the we-they-thinking. To solve this, there is a responsibility not only for politics, but also for society, for all of us. If you think that Dutch people with a migration background are not real Dutch people and should leave the country, then you are not working on the solution. On the other hand: if you are born in the Netherlands and you yourself call out that you are not a Dutchman and you compare others, then you are not working on the solution either. If you want to become top attorney on the Zuidas but you don't get soft skills during your studies, so you broaden your horizons and learn cultural skills, it becomes difficult. There is also a piece of own responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I also address my final word to the people who are watching. Please, in the Netherlands, let us all judge each other by behavior and competences and no longer by origin, gender or sexuality. We'd be a whole step further by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday we received good news: The Netherlands is one of the most competitive economies in the world. Only Switzerland scored better in Europe. That's pretty cool, our Prime Minister would say. On another point, too, we are at the absolute summit in Europe last week, and that is in the area of discrimination. Because Dutch Muslims experience more discrimination than Muslims in all other countries. Again we are in place number two; only Greece is doing worse. And that, of course, is terrible. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about labour market discrimination. DENK is in favour of equal opportunities in the labour market. Discrimination based on race, religion, background and orientation is forbidden and unacceptable. Labour market discrimination against people with a migration background has been known for a long time; Mr Özdil just spoke about it. In 1986 there was the research called "May it also be a foreigner?'. The answer from companies was always no at the time. No, it shouldn't be a foreigner, was the conclusion. For the record: the foreigner is just someone with a Dutch passport. In 2011, there was an investigation among temporary employment agencies. Temporary agencies were asked whether they would rather not want Moroccans, Turks or Surinames, even though they speak fine Dutch. Of the 187 temporary employment agencies, more than three quarters replied that they were willing to cooperate. 75% of temporary employment agencies indicated that they were cooperating in discrimination. The current debate is about an investigation that shows that an applicant with a migration background without a criminal record has a significantly lower chance than a candidate with a Dutch surname with a criminal record for a violent crime. In plain Dutch: many companies prefer a criminal rather than someone with a migration background, and that is unheard of. Mr. Chairman. You hear the stories on the street. From people who apply for jobs, people who send hundreds of applications and then get no answer. From an official in Delft who indicates that she makes two stacks of application letters: a pile of Dutch sounding surnames and a second pile of non-Dutch sounding surnames, and then she indicates that after having exhausted the first stack she will only look in the second pile. That's the Netherlands in 2017. On the other hand, in the Netherlands there are many Dutch people with a migration background who work hard, hardworking Dutch people with a migration background, including Muslims. And unfortunately, they are all too often the folding chairs of the economy. If the economy gets worse, they get out first, and when things get better, they're the last ones to get hired. Unfortunately, there are too many hard-working Dutch people with a migration background who work hard to get a job at all but who do not get a chance because of labour market discrimination. DENK is here to fight this injustice. Mr. Chairman. This is also your purest capital destruction. People who can do what, people who can contribute to the economy, people who can contribute to our society, we should not want to abandon based on their last name, on their background or on their religion. Mr. Chairman. And what has the government done in recent years? The Minister presented a comprehensive action plan against labour market discrimination. We have said before that we think this is a paper tiger and that we think the approach is far too soft. My main question is: are we actually looking at the final impact of all these measures? Because if you don't do those measurements, it's good intentions and beautiful words, and that's not nearly enough. Let me give you an example, Mr President. Point 11 of the action programme states that the Ministry of Social Affairs will pay attention to the judgments of the College mentioned in particular. Is the Minister finally prepared to adopt and shaming in this debate? Can he simply mention the names of companies that have committed discrimination, or does he only do so in the back rooms where no one hears it? Mr President, I will conclude. The United Nations has repeatedly addressed the Netherlands in the context of human rights on racism and discrimination. It is painful that the Foreign Minister prescribes human rights education for other countries, while our children still do not have to learn anything about human rights. That actually characterizes the attitude of the Dutch government. Human rights are only an export product in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Are you going to finish? You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Civil society organisations call this plan a no-action plan. With no action, you're not gonna solve discrimination. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Four minutes is really four minutes. Then I will go to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. It turns out that immigrants are three times less likely to be invited to a job interview than natives with a criminal record. It is sad and also incomprehensible that these people do not get a fair chance. It is also bizarre that employers do not make better use of this important labour market potential. Unemployment among immigrant young people aged 15 to 23 last year was almost 20%; more than twice as high as in native young people. Well, that says enough. If you want people to feel appreciated, really be able to participate and feel really part of the whole, then you also have to do everything you can to correct this poignant difference. You'll only be a young Turkish woman of 33 years old and unemployed for years. You got your name against it, and nobody's gonna give you a chance. You're not even invited to a conversation. Mr President, I am pleased that 50PLUS gave her a chance. I've had great support ever since. Give people a chance. Look at qualities and not at origin or age, because also the older people in the labour market are not given a fair chance. Long-term unemployment among them is still alarmingly high. Last year, our country had over 90,000 long-term unemployed among the 45-plussers. By comparison, for the 45-miners, that was 44,000. That's a lot to say. Mr. Chairman. We continue to believe that discrimination on grounds of age should be punishable. Discrimination kills older people in the labour market. This problem needs to be addressed rigorously. We believe that the government should at least apply anonymously. We therefore support the PvdA's proposal. That is also the proposal of 50PLUS: set a good example as a government. No name and no age in letters and resumes can give immigrants and elderly people a fair chance of getting to know each other. A good reflection of society should be a starting point. Is it possible that a quota as a stick behind the door is not desirable in this case too? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, Mr President. 50PLUS once again denounces the need to apply the principle of reflection in the event of a restructuring process, but not later on assumption. We believe that the principle of reflection should also apply when people are recruited after a reorganisation or bankruptcy and a start-up. After all, we see that older people in particular do not have a chance to start over. I'm just calling in the people of Vroom and Dreesmann. Does the Minister agree with me that a new cabinet should embrace the principle of reflection as we propose? I'd like to have the Minister's detailed consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr De Graaf has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we are having a debate today, I said just now about a preliminary but also cautious conclusion from an investigation into employment opportunities for offenders and the difference in employment chances following various types of crime. That was the investigation. It also looked at the difference with non-delinquents. The main conclusion was that there are no differences in labour market opportunities between ex-delinquents according to the type of crime or between ex-delinquents and non-delinquents. In addition, the researchers draw the cautious conclusion that offenders are more often invited to a conversation than applicants with a foreign surname. And that became news. What happens next is indicative of the woefulness with which the naughty Netherlands wants to nail the indigenous part of the people to the shame of racism and discrimination. It starts with a tendentious message from the ANP and all the chiefs copy-paste of the media editors, but also state television officials take over that discriminationnarratively eagerly. Then there will be a request for debate from the Labour Party and now we are here, thanks to a number of parties who supported this debate, to hold a debate on a sub-conclusion of a study that was not based on that sub-conclusion as a research objective. I find that rather sad. The publication of the study warns, however, that caution should be exercised in interpreting the results: "The small numbers of applicants often did not allow for the identification of statistically significant effects." The researcher emphasised in an interview: "I don't want to generalize this, because it's a limited sample." I have a final quote from the researcher about the wailing role of the media: "It is good in itself all this interest, but journalists would like to hear certain things about generalisations." Were immigrants discriminated against? According to the investigation itself and the researcher's statements, this is not yet certain. What's really going on? For this we need to look at long-term investigations, for example from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. I have an investigation here from 2010. From this we can conclude that a fictional Mark has 7% more chance of a job interview than a fictional Muhammad. But that modest figure is also immediately nuanced, because what appears to be? In higher positions, immigrants have about the same chance as natives. This shows that claims about deep-rooted racism are total nonsense. In 2012, the same SCP came to the conclusion that non-Western immigrants are disadvantaged by a negative group image and not so much by alleged discrimination against employers, as the SCP has also done extensive research into the motivation of those employers. It is therefore the group image that is bothering and not the alleged discrimination by employers. Crime must be reduced, school performance must be increased and the attitude of the boys from the groups who are supposedly discriminated against must be changed, according to the researchers of the SCP. I'm almost at the end. Anouar El Haji and Mohamed Aadroun said in the Volkskrant about those SCP reports: "There is no evidence of racism and that is good news. Discrimination exists because of negative group images. Thus, especially non-Western applicants benefit from an improvement in the group image. This does not start with the employer, but with the group." As PVV, we have little to add to that. Then I see that I am still within my speaking time. We have two types of structural, institutionalized discrimination in the Netherlands. The first is positive discrimination. The city hall of The Hague, for example, must become "detached." It's called diversity policy. In addition, we have Islam, which commands all non-Muslims to discriminate. If we want to get rid of institutional discrimination, then we must stop diversity policy and de-Islamicise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	I can quite agree with my colleague when he talks about the higher segments of the labour market. That is indeed a question of certain competences. That's what I was talking about in my input. But when it comes to the middle segment, there really is discrimination. We know that from the reports he quotes, reports that I have written a lot about earlier. If I understand my colleague correctly, he says: that is because of prejudice, the group perception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	The group image, I'll help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	The group image with the employers. I'm glad he recognizes that. But then he says it's only up to the people, the individuals in the group to improve that group image. That's what he's actually saying: "Fuck you." I can talk for myself: I am a Dutchman, a Turkish Dutchman, I am Zihni. I've had to deal with that. How can I improve the image for an entire group on my own? I'm gonna do my best. But if that is not enough, are you prepared to help those Dutch from the political point of view, from the political point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	You can't improve a group image on your own. Of course you can't, no. But a group is a group. A group is not a loner. So you have a loner. That is Mr Özdil. He just put himself, in his input, as a victim of discrimination. So that's a loner. You've got the group. And many loners together can make a group. So that's two different things. Those many loners can do something about the group image. 'Cause what turns out to be? All the applications in the study were from 20-year-old boys. There was a typo and the motivation in the applications was rather brief. What does the SCP report tell us? I thought it was the 2012 SCP report, but it could have been the 2010 report; there have been two reports. This shows that employers are looking at good motivation and language errors. But what else is going on? For example, when it comes to Moroccan boys, they excel in crime, high school drop-out and benefit dependency around the age of 20. Those are negative statistics. They will indeed all have to do something about this as a loner but also together as a group. I can say here that the group image needs to be improved, but that has to come from that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	I'm almost done with my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	But that's a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	If there's a victim's position, that victim's position comes from parties like GroenLinks. With the mass immigration of large groups as well as the crime involved, they have created a negative group image. So you are the victim of your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	The answer can be short, you know. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	Well, I'm allowed to nuance anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	But it was really very... Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	My colleague used a lot of words to actually say flat to those people: look at it, we're not gonna help you, even if you want to change the group image but you can't. Where the term "victim" is concerned, it shall be borne by him. I'm gonna distance myself from that. If there's one thing I've done, it's just not being a victim, and keep fighting to get ahead in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	I didn't hear a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	What Mr De Graaf of the PVV is doing is actually two things. In the first place, he muffles away the investigation and wipes his street clean. For example, when it comes to causing the negative group image, Mr De Graaf just indicated that one individual cannot change it, improve it. However, there has been one individual in this Parliament who can make that image worse, and that is Mr Wilders, whom Mr De Graaf calls his party leader. I want to go back to the investigation. When we look at that investigation, we see that a criminal is more likely to be invited to a job interview than someone with a migration background. Surely Mr De Graaf should also say: it is strange that someone who is willing to work hard should be given less chance than, for example, a letterbox pitcher, a head bumper, a fighter boss, an intimidator? He could just say that here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	Two things. I didn't muffle the investigation, I judged it on his merits. I even took the researcher's quotes. I can't be more pure. Mr Kuzu may call that a cover-up, but the one who is covering something up, or is trying to make something more unpleasant for him, is Mr Kuzu. The point is, you're judging an investigation on his merits. The purpose of the investigation was not what we are talking about. You should be aware that Mr. Kuzu may not be so used to always be careful with sub-conclusions if the research wasn't intended for that purpose. That's one. I don't muffle away, I judge it on his merits. There would be discrimination, but I also know a quote from the NRC of a Turkish entrepreneur from the Schilderswijk who does not think about hiring Dutch young people. Well, then maybe there's something wrong. But yes, I can also imagine that a Dutch youngster does not want to say as-salaam aleikum when someone enters the store. He doesn't want to, because he is a Dutchman. This Turkish entrepreneur discriminates, but I haven't heard a Dutchman complain about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I didn't know you spoke Arabic, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	I find it very interesting...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	Can you see how integrated I am in my own society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	... that Mr. De Graaf is having trouble saying peace with you. That's the translation of salaam aleikum. The second is of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	I'd like to say that, just in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	Peace be upon you, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	The point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	But not your peace, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think I'm talking. It would be very nice if I could properly interrupt Mr De Graaf during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	A second part of my question was whether he didn't think it was weird that people who are offenders, people who exhibit criminal behavior... I have mentioned the examples: letterbox wetters, head bumpers, fighter bosses in pubs. These are examples that are close to Mr De Graaf. He won't be able to say it's less bad than your last name, will he? Why does he have so much trouble admitting that criminal behavior is worth less than anyone's last name? Why does he have so much trouble with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	I didn't talk about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	That is exactly the question I am asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	No, no, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Now I'm talking about my own words. It's kind of funny that Mr. Kuzu is doing what he just condemned himself. Of course, you've been a delinquent, but in this society, everyone gets a second chance. Mr Kuzu may not be used to that either. Yeah, it's right here. I also said that there is something in the SCP study about group images. I've just gone into that in detail. That's when I got pissed off. Maybe I'm right. That's what I said all about it. Mr Kuzu is looking for something that is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	I've been here for a few months in this beautiful...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	Just for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'm definitely being addressed to something...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes, you may make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	What Mr De Graaf is saying there is simply bullshit. The point is, of course, that this investigation shows what is going on. Mr De Graaf is just muffling that away. That's on him. That says more about himself than about the group of people I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	Have fun!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have been here for a few months in this beautiful House of Representatives, but I have rarely heard such a confusing speech from Mr De Graaf. It's magical with all kinds of research, groups and individuals. I actually only have one question and I hope for a better answer. According to the PVV, are there individuals in the Netherlands who are discriminated against on the basis of another surname, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	It will undoubtedly happen from both sides. That Turkish entrepreneur doesn't think about hiring Dutch people either. So it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	May I also reflect on the introduction of Mr Van Dijk's question? My argument is not confusing. I mentioned quotes and I added the SCP investigation. There's nothing confusing about that. That's very structured, that's scientific. But yes, that's where the PvdA has drifted far away in recent years. Of course, it's not a confusing story, but perhaps it's annoying to hear scientific facts. If Mr Van Dijk has a problem with that, what is he doing in this beautiful house?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	We are discussing discrimination in the labour market here. We have made this broader than just the research. We found the investigation shocking. You quote from that, but you are also selective, because you quote an old SCP report. About 2016, the Human Rights College says that there is unprecedented discrimination in the labour market. They indicate that people who do the recruitment very often look, very often also unconsciously, for people who are the same as them. I gave you the numbers of young immigrants from 15 to 23 years old. In 2016, 20% of them were unemployed, double the percentage of people with a Dutch surname. My question is therefore: can you not deny that there is no discrimination in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	"Don't deny that there is no discrimination in the labour market." So I have to admit that it is. Double denials are always tricky. Otherwise we will end up in a very strange semantic story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yeah, admit it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	There will undoubtedly be discrimination. I just gave you the solutions of the SCP. The researchers of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau have given them. I would like to say one final word about this. Mr Kuzu spoke of experienced discrimination. Last week we had another investigation about the police in the Schilderswijk, also about experienced discrimination. It's always about experienced discrimination. People feel discriminated against rather quickly. In fact, vlogster Sara, a girl from Leiden who so eagerly wants to go to Morocco, that we could read two weeks ago, says: I see it in people's eyes when they discriminate against me. My freedom and other people's freedom does not end where the hurt or the lamentation of another begins. Everyone's victims these days. Everyone is each other's supremacist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	Let's all get back to normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	I see Mr Jasper van Dijk walking this way. Do you have a question, Mr Van Dijk? Then you'll have to make a little bit of a speed. You're walking very slowly to the interrupting microphone. Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	Good morning. Let's get to that last point. I thought I'd let it pass. But I liked that last one anyway. Because you also sometimes have institutions where employers say: we prefer not to have people with PVV-sympathies. And then it's a racket from that loft! Then it's a disgrace. You said at the end that these people shouldn't feel so easily attacked and hurt. Do you see that as a reason for yourself to dim a little bit when that kind of thing is being said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	Well... I don't see the noise, by the way. There have been a number of articles about this in newspapers. In it people say it's hard to find a job. There's no noise. There is no lamentation. It is said that with a PVV background it is indeed a bit more difficult to find a job. That's not funny. It was a crisis, too. People have been honest and open about that. But I do not see that in the light of the whole story that everyone is victimized in the Netherlands at the moment, that everyone discriminates against each other and that everyone is one another's supremacist. That's a whole different story. Then I'm talking more about the Gloria alarms of this world, all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	You should look at the timeline of your PVV colleagues on Twitter when that sort of thing happens. Then it's a disgrace and then the house is too small. That's incomparable to the highly nuanced story you just kept here, because it suits you better with this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	I don't see that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg has been exchanged, so I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Peters and Mr Jasper Van Dijk for letting me trade. I'm stuck between two appointments, so I appreciate their flexibility. So I can't follow the debate right now either, but my colleagues do. Mr. Chairman. The reason is a study which again shows that people with a migrant background are lagging behind in the labour market in applying for employment. Unfortunately, that is not a new fact. It is not only incomprehensible, but it is also unacceptable that just the fact that your parents, or sometimes your grandparents, were born in another country, makes it less easy to find an internship or a job. As far as I am concerned, we cannot say that to each other often enough in this Chamber either. I think the consequences often go beyond just the ones that happen to this. For I speak to young people who say: 'Mr Van Weyenberg, now I have done the training you tell me to do. I did my best. I didn't get in trouble. It wasn't easy sometimes. And now I have that education, that diploma, and I don't find a job." Or: "Now I'm in the final year of my education and nobody wants to give me an internship." Its appearance goes far and wide beyond just the person who happens to be that horrible fact. I think it is also very demotivating and an illustration for many that they may not be appreciated here. We can never accept that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has been working hard on this issue. He can't solve it alone, just as well as we can't solve it here in the Chamber alone. But we have taken initiatives and I welcome the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, even if only because it forces us to think constantly about what more we can do as a politician. Mr. Chairman. I am thinking here of cooperation with the Chamber. It is a bit of the Minister's last debate, I suppose, on this subject. I think we're realizing that you're not gonna solve this with just laws and enforcement. It also starts with cultural change, a change in the heads of employers or temporary employment agencies. I heard all the references to research that show that people say: do a blonde Dutch boy. That kind of prejudice can be tried by law and by enforcement, but ultimately the change will also have to take place in the minds of people, in the heads of employers and temporary employment agencies. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has taken important steps with the Action Plan. I would like to ask three more questions. First of all, I am curious as to what the current state is about additional obligations in purchasing contacts of the Empire. I tabled a motion on this with former PvdA colleague Roos Vermeij. This is a complex matter, but I am curious whether the Minister can say anything about it. Secondly, the inspection has established a unit against labour discrimination following an amendment by Mr Karabulut and myself. In 2016, 200 companies were audited. I was curious what the stand is like in 2017. Can the Minister say anything about that? Thirdly, I would like to dwell on pregnancy discrimination. Unfortunately, this is a very common point which the Chamber has often called for attention to be given to. Could the Minister give some indication of the number of reports of pregnancy discrimination at the College of Human Rights? The Minister writes in his letter that the College is still considering whether this information can be shared. I am very curious about the state of affairs, because this is also something that is extremely harsh and with which we still have a long way to go. Mr. Chairman. I would like to end with a more personal question to the Minister. If he looks back on this action plan, what general picture does he have of what works? Where are the main obstacles in his view? And what could we do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talk about the research that shows that you have a better chance of getting a job in the Netherlands when you have a criminal record than when you have a migrant background. What conclusion does the government draw from this? What does it say about the state of the country when employers, to put it bluntly, prefer to employ a criminal rather than an immigrant? What is the government doing against this xenophobia? Discrimination because of origin is unfortunately ubiquitous. We know the example of the boy who was rejected because he's dark. A leaked e-mail said: "Is nothing (...) a dark colored (nigger)." Tough discrimination. And we've seen this e-mail. How many e-mails have we not seen? What happened to the case report? What happens to companies that tell temp agencies that they don't want immigrants? Are they being dealt with now or not? I ask because we are not having this debate for the first time. Year in, year out, action plans are presented, but the question is whether it really changes anything. It is therefore about enforcement. So not just paper, but also acting when there is discrimination. Then we have to look at the Inspection SZW. My party, together with D66, has created a special team to deal with the fight against discrimination. In 2016 we made extra money for this. How's it going, exactly? The team has carried out over 200 inspections. In 80% to 90% of them enforcement has taken place with a requirement for compliance. That's great. But the inspection focuses exclusively on the workplace and cannot do anything when it comes to recruitment and selection, which is precisely where discrimination is taking place, at the front door. It is also not possible to deal with individual cases. Does the Minister share the view that the inspection should have more teeth? I'm considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. Then age discrimination. In May, Albert Heijn was accused of age discrimination by the College of Human Rights. We have also asked questions about this in Parliament. In the case of vacancies of the Albert Heijn, it was explicitly stated that preference is given to pupils or students, i.e. young people. You can't do that. Still, it happens. In reply to our questions, the Minister says that he is going to look again at how he can better inform these companies, employers. As far as I am concerned, that too is too non-binding. I would like more action, because we all know that supermarkets and similar companies simply opt for young people because they are cheaper. Mr. Chairman. Finally, pregnancy discrimination. Yesterday, the Central Bureau of Statistics reported that women with a flex contract are less likely to become pregnant than women with a fixed contract. As many as 43% of pregnant women are explicitly rejected for pregnancy. Temporary contracts shall not be renewed. That's not possible. But what does the Minister do? He's gonna see how he can better inform the employers. But of course they already know that this is not allowed at all. As far as we are concerned, the government is making binding agreements with employers on reducing pregnancy discrimination. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. Besides eating, drinking and a roof above your head, a human needs perspective, the realization that by commitment you can make something of your life. Dreaming about a future is almost literally vital, and the other way around is the idea that, despite your commitment, you don't get the opportunities you deserve, just because you have a particular last name, smalling and indigestible. Labour discrimination, whether on account of age or background, is unacceptable; discrimination is simply criminal and needs to be addressed. There will be no discussion about the existence of discrimination on the labour market. Looks like you'd better have a criminal record than a Moroccan last name. Literally. How crazy do we want it? And part of it goes unconscious, too. As shocking as it may be, the figures from the study only give a general picture. Interpretation is difficult. For example, missing job applications skills and absence of a functional network also play a role. General figures do not say much about the background to individual rejection. But let me make one thing clear: everyone deserves an equal chance in the labour market, and that is not the case now. That's why I have the following questions. In 2014, the Minister drew up an action plan against labour discrimination. Enough measures, I read: 48 or 49. But what are the results? In addition, in previous debates, the Minister indicated that it was going to use the adoption and screening of concrete companies. Names and numbers. How's that going? I'd like a response from the Minister. Does he believe this is gonna work too? Prejudice and the feeling of discrimination are often difficult to enforce. But prejudice exists. Yet not every rejection is discrimination. It is therefore important to know the reason for rejection by an employer. Employers then become aware of their prejudices and the bad feeling of being rejected by name or race disappears. Instead, feedback comes with what an applicant can do with. Pieter Heerma, together with Mr Van Weyenberg, tabled a motion in February 2016 calling on the social partners to consider how precisely this feedback can be promoted. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? I'd like a response from the Minister. An active diversity policy is needed to better reflect society in the labour market. To set an example, the cabinet has started a programme for an inclusive government. My question is therefore: what about the results of this? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Cabinet also encourages diversity policy among government organisations and companies by signing and supporting the Charter Diversity. Inclusion should thus be brought to a higher level on the business agenda. My question is therefore: how many companies have signed that charter and helped it? Is diversity indeed higher on the agenda? I would also like to comment on this. In 2017, the cabinet indicated that it would explore the possibilities of achieving a joint charter in 2018 for the promotion of inclusive employership. Were those possibilities indeed explored? And what is the Minister's conclusion? Mr. Chairman. There are plenty of good intentions and measures, but there has to be yarn. What about the results? It can't be better to have a criminal record than an Arab surname. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, everyone is equal, whether you're gay or straight, male or female, ethnic or native. We do not tolerate discrimination. We have heard it before today: research shows that applicants with a Dutch surname and a criminal record are invited to a conversation rather than someone with a non-Western background without a crime in their name. We are quoting research here today, but we must never forget that we are talking about people of flesh and blood, people with ambitions and dreams, who have to fight harder than anyone else to get to work or to stay at work. We cannot accept this situation. There are more forms of labour market discrimination. There has been talk today of pregnancy discrimination and age discrimination. Every form deserves our attention. The cabinet, together with employers and other partners, is firmly committed to tackling any form of labour discrimination. First of all, as far as the VVD is concerned, it is important that you report discrimination. Unfortunately, it is still too often that the victim does not get a feedback from the handling of the declaration or too late. This can and must be changed as far as the VVD is concerned. Is the Minister aware of how many of the cases a feedback is obtained, what the time limit is and how we can possibly get this even better? I would like to ask the Minister to address these questions and to address this issue actively within the framework of the fight against discrimination. If you feel that you are being discriminated against or if you have questions about a particular situation, then there must be a place where you can go for information and support. The current forest of hotlines must be thinned and streamlined so that the victim or the questioner knows where to go. We have already tabled a motion to ensure that the budget is given an overview of the anti-discrimination reporting points and uniform registration. I would like to hear from the Minister about the state of play of this motion. Mr. Chairman. Businesses are also firmly engaged in tackling labour market discrimination. Employers make discrimination negotiable during working conversations and companies make their selection procedures more transparent and accessible. These are fine examples, which I hope will be followed by many more. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it is not the case that anyone who feels that he or she is being discriminated against is actually discriminated against. It may also mean that you don't have your job skills or networks in order or that you simply weren't good enough for that job yet. We must be careful that we do not undermine the concept of discrimination and tumble across each other with new measures. It doesn't help anyone. Let us also be careful, in particular to my colleagues on the left, that we come up with measures that encourage prejudice. The VVD is against measures such as applying anonymously or imposing lower requirements on certain groups. The VVD believes that the talent and abilities of people should be central and not their gender, origin or age. No one wants to be hired because it had to be because of a quota list or because the criteria for you were adjusted downwards. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In this way, I would like to appeal to the many Dutch people who may have to deal with this on a daily basis. The VVD supports anyone who needs us to tackle discrimination. But we also need to be honest at the same time. Despite all the repressive and preventive measures we are putting in place, the government does not have a magic wand. Discrimination will, unfortunately, continue to occur. Trying and working hard is probably harder than anyone else. It's your best option. It's not fair, but it's the only way we can deal with this and change it. So you know, supported by the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	The VVD doesn't want discrimination either. If a company discriminates, for whatever reason, that company must be addressed. That's what I'm getting out of your speech. Do you not therefore regret the fact that very few companies are actually fined or dealt with? It is a lot of pointers, but there are actually no fines or sanctions. Should we not even look at how, for example, we can strengthen the inspection SZW in order to take better action against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	Indeed, it is extremely difficult to tackle different forms of discrimination, including discrimination at work, as it is often so difficult to detect. That is what we run into very badly when it comes to companies. You may have suspected that was behind it, but it's very difficult to figure out what's actually behind it. That is also why we do not currently have a longer list of companies that we can address. I think it's very good to see what more it takes. The question is whether this is entirely in the hands of the inspection or whether it has more to do with information, with the resistance of people, with the ability to manage things. That's why VVD is not in favour of applying for an anonymous job, because that doesn't tackle the problem and you can't get it over the table. I think there are a lot of things we can do about it. I'd like to take the SP and see if we can do any sharper business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	Sometimes it is quite clear that there is discrimination, for example in the case of pregnancy. You mentioned that yourself. 43% of women say they are openly discriminated against. The company says we're not gonna hire you or we're not gonna renew your contract because you're gonna get pregnant. It can't be. I'm sure the VVD will find that unacceptable. What are we supposed to do with a company like that, with an employer like that? We have to have a sanction against that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	When earlier this year the Human Rights College opened a hotline for pregnancy discrimination, the reports came in. I believe over 500 reports came in in two weeks. They're being analyzed now. Minister Asscher said it very well: it must be a celebration that you are pregnant and you should not get into stress because you wonder if you are keeping your job. That's terrible. However, companies often don't say literally: I'm not extending your contract because you're pregnant. People get to hear a different story. Then the question is what caused it. It's very difficult to figure that out. The Human Rights College is now conducting an analysis. I'm very curious about that. But making it detectable, pointing out what's behind it, is so complicated! That is why I welcome the fact that the cabinet and this minister have been working on information and prevention and, of course, making women very aware of their rights. That's all part of it if you really want to be able to handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	It is good that the VVD indicates that discrimination is unacceptable. In her contribution, Mrs Yeşilgöz made it very clear that no one wants to be adopted on the basis of his background, surname, gender, etc. But what's even worse for people is that they're rejected by last name, based on their religion or based on their orientation. Would it not then be possible as a government, as the largest coalition partner, to pick up that gauntlet and say that we stand for that diversity in equal fitness and that we want to ensure that everyone gets a chance in this society. Can we not say on equal fitness that people with a migrant background, with a different sounding surname, like Yeşilgöz, are preferred with a different orientation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	I believe that Mr Kuzu is asking for the position of the VVD on positive discrimination, because that is what we are talking about. We are not in favour of that. Again, it sounds very simple, it sounds like an open door, but of course it isn't, because everyone wants to be hired based on their qualities. I would like to stand here based on my qualities and not on my last name or because I was preferred because I happened to be born somewhere else. I know so many Dutch people with a non-Dutch surname or a place of birth outside the Netherlands who feel the same way. That is why we say: don't do that; that means that your prejudices are much more in control. No one wants to be brought in in a way: we still had a tick to fill in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	Then we do 30 years of research and we see that we are actually not getting along very well. Mr Özdil referred to 1986. I gave the example of the survey at temporary employment agencies in 2011. We can see the problem's been going on for so long. I'm not saying people should be hired based on their last name. In the 1980s and 1990s the occasional argument was used that the quality would not be there. Mrs Yeşilgöz says that this quality is there. I'm talking about equal fitness for the same position, and then prefer it based on last name, background, and so on. That is indeed quota policy. We do that when it comes to women at the top, we do that to people with disabilities, so why not on the basis of diversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	I began by quoting my speech from research and indicating that there are individuals who experience discrimination, including in the labour market. It is an essential problem against which we must continue to fight each other. But if Mr Kuzu says it's not going to work out, I'd like to straighten that out. If we look at the list of speakers in this debate alone, you may wonder if there is not already a very beautiful diversity going on. But apart from that, we see a huge number of employers who are just adjusting their work interviews, who are looking at them with their HR departments. Look at the police, the fire department: there's so much going on. On all sides, also in universities and on the workplace, I see Dutch people with a different background building very nice careers. I would also like to emphasise this, and I would like to see it, too, and I would like to move it forward. They do that because they're just good. I don't think it's gonna work out, so I don't agree. I look at it much more positively than my colleague, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Early last year Mohamed El Alili applied for the position of consultant at a healthcare institution in Utrecht. To his disappointment he wasn't invited to a conversation, but this 24-year-old grad student Healthcare didn't leave it there anymore. He left his application unchanged, but adjusted his CV to the name of his secondary school and applied again. Now he was invited. He was allowed to come in for a conversation. By the way, he had not signed with "Mohamed El Alli," but with "Matthijs de Wever." The disappointed Mohamed did not accept the invitation. He chose to use his talents with another employer, because he had no respect for a company that rejected him on the basis of his name, and he is right. As shown by the Court's contribution in the first term, this story is far from unique. In fact, we know so many of these examples that you may be despondent about it, but that's not allowed, because it's about individuals. If you have done your best to complete a beautiful education and are eager to earn a living in the labour market, it is in fact a blockage to your security of existence if you do not get a fair chance to present, apply and get a job. We all see that there are a number of clear positive developments. The Dutch with a migration background are more often highly educated, more often master the Dutch language well and more often have a value pattern similar to that of the other Dutch, but in the labour market it sticks. Even now that the labour market is attracting, that group is lagging behind. We cannot accept this from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of social cohesion and integration. We leave talent unused, while the proportion of beneficiaries with a migration background increases. Unexploited labour costs for employers and society. Moreover, this leads to frustration and broken dreams in people we desperately need. Integration is participation. Participation is almost always paid work. That is why, as Minister for Social Affairs and Integration, I think it is important that all Dutch contribute to society, preferably with paid employment. Having paid work provides income and security of living, but also leads to social contacts and development and also to a good example for the next generation to come. However, Dutch people with a migration background have a smaller chance to be invited to a selection interview than applicants with a Dutch surname, even if those applicants have a criminal record. Mohamed El Alli's mini-research, which I started with, and the nuanced research that triggers this debate, are two of many investigations. I think the facts are beginning to speak for themselves. I even have the impression that they were no longer denied, not even by the PVV. The question is, what are we going to do about it? The Education and Labour Market Research Centre speaks of "an ethnic fine." Also adjusted to all kinds of environmental factors Dutch people with a migration background do worse than other Dutch people. This destroys dreams and is therefore unacceptable. I have been able to do a lot together with the House of Representatives on this subject for the past five years. An action plan has been drawn up. This was not about the number of measures, even if it is easy to say: gosh, they are 48 measures. It was about what we did with that. I think we've taken some big steps. Would I have wanted more? I'm sure you will, but you'll always have to take into account coalition formation, wishes and differences of opinion. That will be the case in the years to come, but we have done a great deal about it. Any improvement? Sure, there's improvement. Dozens of companies have joined charters with which they have set themselves the goal of doing more to diversify their business. Young people have found their way and are successful in all kinds of places in society. It's getting more and more normal that diversity can be seen. At the same time, things are slow, way too slow. Too many excuses are also used not to do this: excuses not to worry about it, excuses to look the other way and excuses to find other topics more important. This also applies to the government itself, yes. I believe that diversity policy should come back to the government. We haven't been able to do that in the last few years, but we have to. All kinds of questions have been asked about what I think should be done. Well, it's really interesting. I'm in a deep-decommissioned position here, so I'd like to say a lot about it. We will have to wait and see what is agreed in the new coalition, but I would like to see more diversity at the top of the government's administration, because that is also an example. And yes, then there is the classic discussion: doesn't that lead to prejudice again? I don't think we can afford it. It's too slow. If you're not careful, that could be an excuse not to do anything. It's not gonna happen by itself. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express a message towards employers. I've met fantastic employers who think this subject is incredibly important, who stick their necks out for it. I will give a few examples of concrete companies later. I think that all those employers, big and small, whether they voted PVV, DENK or PvdA, I don't care if they have an interest in doing something about this. We all want to live in a country where it's safe, where it's cozy, where it's pleasant, where people get opportunities. That means we all have to do our best to give people a chance that deserves that chance. So all employers who still think "that's not my deal-and-nothing" or "I'm asking the agency to only send people who look like me" have the responsibility, for themselves and their company as well as for their children and the way we live together here, to do things differently and to recognise that they suffer from prejudice. From the two municipal trials with anonymous interviews that I have facilitated in recent years, it appears that everything, but also that the employees found out that they themselves had more prejudices than they were previously aware of. It is therefore useful to pay much more explicit attention to this issue. This applies to everyone, including recruiters at big fancy companies and governments who think: we do not suffer from this. Well, you do. So I think it is very important to discuss the enforcement and criminal law side with you, and many questions have been asked about this, but there is also a world to gain in recognising the role that prejudice plays and in the ambition that we collectively must have in this country to make those prejudices disappear. The same applies to older people who want to work. It applies to people with a migration background who want to get to work. It applies to pregnancy discrimination, also such an absurd, medieval form of discrimination, which is still very popular. I can see it from the reactions we're getting right now. We have just started that campaign, in collaboration with and at the request of the House of Representatives. You saw that. That discrimination is there, so please let us talk about it and let us pry through the excuses that are used all too often in the case of pregnancy discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	Were you finished with your general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	I see Mrs. Van Brenk at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	Me too, but I thought... Are you going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	I just wanted to do it all the time. So it gets much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	That's good. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	I went back to what the Minister said: we have a joint plan, a national campaign, and we have made great strides, but we are not there yet. I ask the Minister if he has any knowledge of the Magazine for HRM, No. Six of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	Page?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	It is a beautiful article, written by Dr. René van Someren, about forbidden discrimination during the offering and entering into industrial relations. It states, in the introduction: "Despite a national campaign in which the politicians and government officials call on the Dutch people not to discriminate in any form whatsoever, Dutch government institutions in particular seem to be guilty of making a prohibited distinction in offering and entering into an employment relationship. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is the crown." I can imagine that the Minister is not just ready to do this, but I would like to ask him whether he would like to reflect on that, now or otherwise certainly in writing. For it is very shocking when the government plays a crucial role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, also for pointing out. I hadn't seen this before. But I agree with you. I also pointed out in my speech that we should not underestimate the fact that governments, who always think that they do everything better, suffer from prejudice, so doing things that are not right. You can also see that in the composition of the staff. That is why I also believe that it should be made more important, or even more important, that we should reflect, for example, on the government of the state. The government also sometimes makes mistakes with discrimination. This must not only be demonstrated; something must also be done about it. I will therefore be pleased to study the article and also respond to it if it adds anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr President, if you don't mind, I'd be happy to give it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yeah, through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, 92 larger employers, including the government as a whole, have committed themselves to the diversity charter, including various trade associations, the AWVN, a number of SME organisations and the ABU. I would also like to emphasise that side. Mr Peters informed about this. This means that they not only commit themselves to the higher objective, but also commit themselves to making it verifiable and sharing it with others. This year, some 12 health care institutions will join and municipalities will join. I hope, and also expect a little bit, that that will get bigger. It is important to pay attention to this. Because it is necessary to tackle the rotten apples and to make the prejudices generally negotiable and to take them away, but it is also necessary to put pioneers in the spotlight who think it is important for their organization, want to do something about it and not make it too easy for themselves. Oh, the messenger now brings me the response to the article that Mrs Van Brenk just gave me. No! My officials aren't that fast. They're gonna be that fast, but they're gonna keep it for a while! What I think is a good example is the way Rabobank treats this as one of the signatories to the charter. That's kind of nice to mention. They have invited and appointed a large number of delegates from local banks to work to promote more diversity in all respects within the organisation. This involves influx of multicultural talent and being visible and recognizable to all customer groups in society. But it's also about changing the summit itself and encouraging employees at the management level to continue to grow, showing that diversity is important. I have here a series of examples, which you get excited about, of a lot of employers, companies and organisations that realize: it's 2017, we're rooted in the Netherlands and that means for our future that we want to get talent and give it a chance. They believe that prejudice is stupid not only in relation to those affected by it, but also in relation to the organisation. As a result, I believe that Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party is right to say that it is important to improve reporting and reporting on how companies deal with this, so that you can also see what companies are performing on this issue. On the extent of cultural diversity at the Empire, the colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst provided information. In that you can see that it is all in the image of the Empire, but that image is not good, to summarize it very briefly. In spring 2018, the progress report on the National Action Programme against Discrimination will be presented. This includes labour market discrimination and the approach to pregnancy discrimination. Then the position of employees in bankruptcy. I am very aware that bankruptcy has a major impact on employees, even if a start is made. We've been looking at all kinds of variants. What about the position of employees in a start-up or bankruptcy? There should also be room for older workers. This also benefits the starter himself. The choice of employees employed will often lead to the question of how to proceed with the company. But we have also recently seen examples in the retail sector, where a start-up led to the disappearance of almost all older workers. I would be happy if the curator, who is actually only defending creditors, would have a legal role to look at the importance of employees as well. This has already taken shape in a number of other countries. That's not easy. I've reported on that before in the Chamber. This is looked at together with Security and Justice, under which the BW and bankruptcy law sort out. I would actually be very pleased if we looked not only at the interests of creditors but also at the interests of employees. You can never make that the only thing that matters, because then you miss something. There's always a balance there. You have an interest in getting a start, because it certainly leads to relief for some of the employees. But you also have an interest in looking at the importance of all older workers. So, as far as I am concerned, it would be a good thing if Dutch bankruptcy law were to be changed in this respect. Whether that will succeed will have to be proved in the near future. There has been talk of the inspection SZW. Indeed, an amendment from the Chamber released money to set up a team for this purpose. We have always recognised in advance that this is very useful and good, but that the inspection SZW is not there for individual complaints. That's what the judge and the Human Rights College are for. The inspection really looks at whether companies comply with the law and this is about labour law that says: companies need to ensure a safe working environment and thus also tackle discrimination. However, I am very pleased with that team, because you can see that these inspections are indeed working and that they are coming back. As a result, the inspection has also been able to improve information so that companies can be more targeted. That'll help. This will also help with access to the employment that Jasper van Dijk rightly informs about. Although it is still difficult for the inspection to observe any of this, if a company pursues proper policies to combat discrimination, I am convinced that this will also have an effect on the way access to employment takes shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	I wonder why, therefore, this team has powers in relation to the workplace, but not in relation to the recruitment and selection phase. That's just such an important phase. Why doesn't the inspection have powers over that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	Because the powers of inspection are always based on the legislation that companies have to comply with. The task of the inspection is, among other things, to monitor working conditions legislation. That working conditions legislation is about employees. That's the guiding definition. This means that people who are not employees but may want to become employees in the future are not protected by that legislation. The inspection must, of course, act within the legal powers that exist, otherwise it would be a fine thing. That is what Mr Jasper van Dijk thinks with me. However, I think it is worth examining whether companies are pursuing good policies on the basis of general labour law. At the moment, the re-inspections are taking place. 200 companies were investigated at the time. A lot of that didn't work out the way you wanted it to. Those companies are being re-inspected now. If a company consciously deals with this and explicitly formulates policies on how to prevent discrimination against employees in the workplace, my expectation is that this will also have a positive impact on the way recruitment and selection takes place. The inspection has no competence, no title and no legislation on the basis of which it can look at that part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	I would like to help the Minister to hope that this has a positive impact on recruitment and selection. But we both know that there is a major problem in the adoption policy of companies. We have mentioned the examples of people who are already rejected on the basis of their last name. Wouldn't that be a good reason, for example, for the inspection, perhaps the Minister has a better suggestion to consider where to act at that stage of the policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	I very much agree with Jasper van Dijk that there is, of course, a lot of discrimination there. In fact, there is also research in which you see that discrimination hinders people most when finding an internship or a first job, i.e. access to employment. But when one works in an organization, the flow of people often goes as fast as that of people without a migration background. Why does that make any sense? This is partly due to the fact that prejudices play a role. Once you're a colleague of each other, luckily those prejudices melt away. That also shows how vulnerable that first chance is when you only have a name or an age on the basis of which someone goes off the pile. So I very much agree with the SP. At the same time, you must be careful to ensure that the inspection is carried out too easily, because there must be a legal framework on the basis of which to look at it. The Labour Inspectorate must, of course, look at how employers deal with workers. The task of looking at how employers deal with applicants is a little further away. That's what the anti-discrimination provisions are for, and that's where the Human Rights College and the Civil Court are for. It certainly seems to me that it is worth discussing whether, under the broader working conditions law, you should not increase the competence of a company to maintain certain standards with regard to applicants and trainees, but then you should actually start there. So you can't just give the inspection that power; then you should actually increase the legal framework that companies have to comply with. I would be happy to enter into this discussion with Mr Van Dijk. There are arguments to suggest that a company that is responsible for ensuring healthy and safe working should actually mean a fair way of dealing with people who want to work in that company. Then, on behalf of the CDA, Mr Peters asked about the state of the Empire's handling of discriminatory companies. We have set a clear standard by indicating that we do not want to do business with companies convicted of labour market discrimination. You can see that a number of municipalities have also taken over that method. One example is the municipality of Drachten, which has terminated cooperation with a company because it became clear that someone was discriminated against, in this case because of their homosexuality. In addition, you can see that an anti-discrimination clause has been included in more and more agreements of the Empire; that was also a question from D66. Fourteen framework agreements for the hire of participants, a framework agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office, for the probation, three framework agreements for the case-law, the Council for the Protection of Children and the Court of Justice. Why is this important? Because in those contracts, that standard gets another translation. This makes it very clear and easy to implement that, if there is discrimination, the contract, the tender or the work costs. I believe that we must also show that side in a firm and tangible way. Mrs Yesilgöz is absolutely right to say that it is not always visible either. When it is visible, it must also have consequences and a sanction must follow. Well, at least it's clear you're not getting a job with the Empire anymore. The discussion about anonymous application was of course conducted extensively with the Minister of Home Affairs and the National Service. You can see that there are very strong differences of opinion on this issue. I can feel both these opinions in my own breast, because it is a horse medicine, as Gijs van Dijk said. I don't think he said that now, but Kuzu has said, "You ask people to deny who they are." I sympathize with both, this is not what you want, but at the same time we don't have so much time to lose. If it can help to get people moving or to make prejudices visible faster, then maybe it should. When you see where we stand in 2017 with all the tension in society and with so much talent, the urgency is so great that we sometimes have to do things you say: it's a bit ugly, there are also disadvantages and maybe it even leads to additional prejudices here and there. But we have to get through it; we will have to confront all those companies, all those employers, all those governments that hire people, with the price of prejudice, the penalty. This price is now paid by the individual who cannot develop his talents and therefore sees his dreams of the future go up in smoke, but also by society, because as a society as a whole we become more cynical, fearful, angry, tense when a large group of people with talent does not come to work. They will therefore be confirmed in the image: you never belong to it. I think that as a society you also lose part of your moral authority and claim by saying that you have to do even harder. I have to. I agree with the VVD. Of course you shouldn't give up, just like that boy I quoted at the beginning of my speech. Of course, you should not give up, you should not let it go, but that will become hollow words if we do not do everything we can to face up to those prejudices and fight them. It can never be sufficient as such. We cannot say: we raise our shoulders; try harder. Of course you have to do your best. Even if we are much further into this, I fear that people with a different last name, as fortunately there are many in this Chamber, should try a little harder. But it's not enough. We don't have time to waste, given the price we all pay for it. Mr Kuzu rightly asked about the effectiveness of all the measures contained in the action plan. I also talked to the General Court about it, because it is a good question. What does all the policies we come up with here and establish with each other? The Court states that this type of policy, which also focuses on knowledge and awareness, makes it more difficult to steer output and outcome. Well, that's a truth like a cow. However, it is important to consider whether knowledge and awareness have increased. The impact study after the repetition of the campaign also looks specifically at it, because there are a number of things that you can measure. Have we become more aware of it? Did it work? Did it work out? But the Court also says that it is very difficult to say that this action plan has reduced the amount of discrimination by so much. Mr Kuzu will understand that. Nevertheless, I believe it is our duty to consider what you can learn from the past, to ask outsiders to measure and calculate whether you can say something about effectiveness and to look for what works best with each other. The results of this evaluation will be taken into account in the progress report on the entire action programme against discrimination coming this spring. I've already said something about that. So we also want to incorporate what we have been able to find on impact and evaluation. Perhaps this will lead to a change or tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr President, I have another question in response to the Minister's reply to my question on anonymised application, but allow me first to express my gratitude and appreciation to the Minister for his attitude over the last four and a half years. He did not hide from the issue of labour market discrimination. He has also made himself strong for it, among other things with his, if I may put it this way, anonymized job interviewing at the Empire. In his introduction, the Minister indicated that this was not possible because of the attitude of the coalition partner, the VVD. Minister Stef Blok has stopped it, with a number of arguments in which you can put doubts about GroenLinks. Suppose the minister wasn't in a coalition with the VVD, would he have implemented the standard of anonymized job interviews at the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you for Mr Özdil's kind words. I am standing here on behalf of a deep-departure cabinet, but I am not going to complain about VVDs as a PvdA citizen. I don't think that's so strong and not so fancy. I'm not gonna do that. From my place in the room I'm going to do it with pleasure and regularity. I am very proud to have been able to work on it in this coalition. For five years we have worked very hard on it. You'll never get what you want in everything; you'll never get what you want. Of course, there are things I would have wanted if we had 76 seats. I can name a lot of them. Perhaps that will also apply to other subjects of the VVD, as regards the role I have played. Now it is about that there is quite a large consensus that this is a problem. That's what I liked about the first term. We can look at the points where the political difference is greatest. Maybe that's an anonymous application, but also if anonymous application to the Empire was introduced five years ago when I joined, I'll give you a note that we hadn't solved the problem right now. It's gonna take more than that. It's about the hard side, which is to tackle companies that behave badly, and it's about the soft side, which is to meet again and understand that there are prejudices. It's also about the whole part in between. How can you ensure that companies have a proper policy? How can you control that? How can you put companies that are really committed to it in the spotlight? How can you increase knowledge about specific forms of discrimination? Think about pregnancy discrimination. How can you try to change age discrimination and prejudice about it? I think John the Wolf is doing a fantastic job in that area. He really achieves a lot more in it than I do or anyone else in this room. Oh, no, you should never say that. Then I, I keep it to myself. You also achieve good things in it, but sometimes it is important to get things moving in a different way. So I don't want to stand here and say, if I'd gotten my way on that one point... No, that's just not real. I have been able to do a great deal about it, very much supported by the Chamber. We did some things along the way, like an additional inspection team. However, I am not satisfied and I think that, seeing how the country is now in 2017, it is actually a national task for all those who select people for a job, but also for our new House of Representatives and a new cabinet, should that one day appear on the border, to try to get even more pace in this. Then I come to the question about the declarations made by a left-wing Mr Van Dijk. I do not know which one. A letter was published about this in response to the Krol motion. We see that there are two legal sides to discrimination: equal treatment legislation and criminal law. For denying access to the labour market, equality of treatment legislation is first and foremost reflected. Persons who feel discriminated against may report or report it in different ways. So they can always go to a local anti-discrimination facility. They can also go to the Human Rights College or to a civil judge. If it is a matter of criminal law, it can be reported under Article 429c of the Code of Criminal Law. This has led to the establishment of a closed system, in which everything can be reported. One point, of course, is that evidence is often difficult with this kind of thing. We have all seen the examples of the leaked emails or very stupid reactions to Facebook, which is why you have evidence in your hands. Often it isn't. Nevertheless, I agree with the VVD that it is important to report, precisely because otherwise the eternal discussion will arise "you do feel discriminated against, but is that also true?', a discussion that could potentially be very nasty. People go through something bad and then get to hear: yes, it just feels that way. At the same time, it is in everyone's interest that it should be unraveled that you feel it but that there may be something else going on. So I also think that, apart from everything we've discussed here, it's worth continuing to invest in the soft skills that the CDA was talking about, so the skills of applicants with a migrant background. Why? Because there too an improvement in the position on the labour market can be achieved. It is never an excuse to discriminate, but it is the case that a better network and better job application and presentation skills can help to speed up the flow of talent. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term on the side of the House of Representatives. That's the case. Then we go to the second term and I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's answers. As far as I am concerned, a brief response, in fact, to the whole debate here. What we conclude is that discrimination in the labour market is still there, despite the fact that in recent years we have also engaged politically with many parties. An action plan, legislation, enforcement. That gives us because we see that we are not yet there, as many studies show, also the expensive duty for the years to come to continue and pursue it. So that's the duty for us. The second expensive duty lies in particular with employers and entrepreneurs, because they too have many good examples to come to realize that the diversity of our society is a great asset, which makes our society good and beautiful, but which also ultimately makes a company better and more beautiful. I think that we should be aware of this, bearing in mind that we must work hard on the security of existence and the equal opportunities that we all have and must feel in the Netherlands, here in The Hague and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. Although the cabinet is outgoing, we as a Chamber can make a ruling on three subjects as far as we are concerned. That's why three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is right to try to get more women to the top with its "Tackling Women at the Top";]] [[considers that this is necessary and appropriate;]] [[calls on the government to use measures from the "Apply to women at the top" to bring diversity to the top in the broadest sense of the word,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use the instrument of taking-and-shaming more systematically and with greater attention in relation to companies that are found to be discriminated against,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-795]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-796]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	The final motion concerns the Charter Diversity. That's an awareness project. This should actually be supported by more public organisations. The minister already indicated that a number of municipalities are going to sign that charter. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 92 organisations have signed the Charter Diversity;]] [[noting that there are hardly any municipalities, provinces, health institutions, housing corporations and schools among those 92 signatories;]] [[noting that labour discrimination is a major problem and therefore it is very important to endorse principles of equal opportunities and inclusiveness;]] [[calls on the Government to urge local and semi-public authorities to sign the Charter Diversity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-797]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	In time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yeah, neat. Yes, you can. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Human Rights College receives numerous signals and reports indicating that access to the labour market is hampered by personal characteristics such as age, limitation, sex, sexual preference, origin/ethnicity and religion/confidence;]] [[Whereas the College of Human Rights calls for the highest priority to be given to combating labour discrimination;]] [[Furthermore, considering that employment is an important key to integration and the prevention of poverty;]] [[points out that the identification and prevention of all forms of employment discrimination should be given high priority in government policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands with a migration background and older people are systematically discriminated against in the labour market;]] [[Whereas it already rejects applicants with an equivalent or better CV in the selection of letters;]] [[Whereas recent research has shown that the public authorities provide ample opportunity to discriminate against candidates in the selection of letters on the basis of personal characteristics protected by equal treatment legislation (GBPs);]] [[points out that the public authorities should set a good example and that anonymous application should be made without mentioning name, origin, sex and age, and should eventually become a rule, while allowing for legitimate positive discrimination;]] [[expresses the wish that a subsequent cabinet should submit a detailed proposal to the Chamber within six months of taking office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-798]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-799]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. I have a question and two motions. Did I understand from the Minister's passionate plea about applying anonymously that he says that it is precisely in view of the many forms of discrimination that it is necessary to use this horse medicine? Did he just announce a policy change? I'd like an explanation of that. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that discrimination in the labour market is unacceptable;]] [[noting that the SZW inspection may take action against discrimination in the workplace but not in the recruitment and selection phase, whereas it is precisely in the case of applications that there is discrimination on a regular basis;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of extending the powers of the SZW Inspection to combat all forms of labour market discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that studies show that 43% of pregnant women face pregnancy discrimination every year;]] [[noting that this percentage has not decreased, despite information to employers and employees;]] [[Whereas reducing pregnancy discrimination is also a responsibility of employers;]] [[calls on the government to make binding agreements with employers on reducing pregnancy discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-800]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-801]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. No motions from me, as you might have expected, but I do have another question for the Minister on another motion. I asked that question in the first place, but I missed the answer. In February 2016, Heerma and Van Weyenberg tabled a motion calling on the social partners to organise a feedback when rejected and to do better. That had two advantages. On the one hand, as the Minister has said, you are in the process of raising awareness of prejudice if there are any employers. On the other hand, it allows for feedback on, for example, the soft skills that the minister was just talking about. If the Minister has already given the answer, I've missed it. I'd like to hear it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from me either. I heard the Minister say we shouldn't accept it. We wholeheartedly support that. This means taking responsibility, not only for the government but also for employers, for people in the labour market and for all of us. I would simply like to refer to the Minister's statement that this means that we should not be shrugging our shoulders, after which he moves on to measures such as applying anonymously. The VVD definitely doesn't raise its shoulders. We believe that the almost 50 measures should be properly implemented and enforced. I'd like to respond to the anonymous interview, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that it may help some prejudice, but so be it. Then he tells me that you just have to deny who you are, because you don't put that on the form anymore. We're not gonna deal with the problem, because we're not gonna get what employer does what. In this respect, we are throwing the good employers on a pile with the less good employers. That's special to me. I would like to get a response to two questions from my first input. The first question was about the feedback of the report to the victim. That can also be done in writing. I would like to have a little more insight into how often a feedback is given and at what time. I also asked for a motion that we tabled on the number of hotlines and the streamlining and standardisation of their registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. The Minister can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mr President. To start with, I don't think you should claim that applying anonymously should be introduced to all organisations and companies. I didn't say that either. Of course, you can do it with the government. Then I do not see very much the problems that Mrs Yeşilgöz mentioned. It is a subject on which opinions clearly differ, as I indicated in my deadline. I'm not announcing a policy change. I do not know exactly how much longer I am here, but it is clear that the outgoing coalition does not have a majority in this House. So this is going to be a new coalition. That also means something for the pre-opinions. It's all motions that focus on what a new government should do. That means I don't give pre-advices. I leave it all to the judgment of the Chamber. The Chamber can decide for itself what it wants to give the new government. It really doesn't add anything if I think of it anymore. The three questions that remain, the question about the Heerma motion and those two questions from the VVD, we will do so in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you. This happened very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	I suggest that the Minister arranges this with all the other ministers. No more judgments on motions. All to the room. Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	We are going to vote on all the motions tabled next Tuesday.
