ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries-Legge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. A school near where children grow up is important for both children and parents and the community in itself. The removal of obstacles to achieving this can therefore count on support from the CDA Group. The CDA Group was pleased to reply on page 3 of the written reply of 26 June. read that now parents and schools in shrinking areas are also finding their way. Since 2006, there have been over 80 school mergers between public and special schools and a number of informal cooperation schools not to be kept up to date by OCW. Even now, therefore, school mergers and informal cooperation schools are already possible. Hail to parents and schools who have worked for this! Still, the law we're treating today doesn't sit well with us. The cooperation school isn't new. The CDA Group fully agreed in 2011, following an amendment to the Constitution which allowed the provision of public education in a school other than public education. It was explicitly emphasised at the time that the historical grammar interpretation of Article 23 of the Constitution is leading. The government now says, through the Secretary of State, that it stated at that time that this does not mean that other methods of interpretation can no longer play a role. And indeed, that guarantee could not be given then, of course. But I can assure you, as present in the debate in this Chamber, by my then colleague, Alfons Dölle, that it was certainly not assumed at that time that this outcome would have been achieved. In fact, in the then reply, then Minister Marja van Bijsterveld motivated the bill as follows: "A public school cannot merge with a school of a ("other") direction. To be involved in such a merger, the public school must now be converted into a special school." The 2011 Constitutional Amendment and the Law-Based Cooperation School made it possible for public education to participate in such a merger while maintaining its public character, because it did not necessarily have to be housed in a public school. And what about the other methods of interpretation? During the plenary session, Minister Marja van Bijsterveldt said: "In the end, an amendment to the Constitution took place involving a trial of law. It states very clearly that there would be a very limited scope for interpretation, which is also fully incorporated into this legislative proposal." And so we are talking about the 2011 bill with the emphasis on the term "complete." A generally accepted principle of Dutch law is that Church and State have no substantive and institutional control over each other. This principle is not contained in the Constitution or any other law. It derives from the freedom of religion and the principle of equality. They are laid down in the Constitution. In 1983, even by law, financial links between government and church societies were abolished. The neutrality of public education has also been underlined by the current Secretary of State during the examination of the initiative proposal on the financing of philosophical education and religious education in public schools in February this year. I quote: 'The law prescribes, and that also follows from the Constitution, that public education is neutral. Religious education cannot therefore take place under the authority of the competent authority of public education." And that brings us to the core. Although it hurts the CDA Group that it will disappoint some of the schools that anticipate this bill, it can see at this time that the change in the form of governance of the cooperation school proposed here, namely the possibility of having special education under the competent authority of the public school, is contrary to our Constitution and its interpretation. The establishment of an identity committee, which does not have a decisive vote, does not change that. We feel that this is supported by the opinion delivered to the First Chamber by the Council of State, which also finds itself in conflict with the Constitution. Also, the oral consultation with the Secretary of State has not produced any convincing counter-arguments other than "the field is waiting for it" or "it cannot be that public education may be less than special education." This means, in our view, that the Constitution should be amended in order to allow this form of government. We see such a free interpretation of our Constitution as a precedent for the future. And then it may be about subjects that are less pleasurable to us. We challenge the Secretary of State to refute our reasoning and await this answer. But let me be clear: if the Secretary of State fails to do so, the CDA Group will be forced to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u3	Madam President. What if we were gonna speed dating here? Every spokesperson raises the short question: what is the most problematic about the law on the school of cooperation? I am very much in favour of a uniform answer, namely: it is contrary to the Constitution. That's the most problematic thing. If that same question is then asked to the Secretary of State, what would his answer be? I am not entirely reassured, because this bill now has a wonderful history. The Council of State was rather destructive in its judgment, initially. In response, the Secretary of State adjusted the bill slightly, and then dealt with it in the House of Representatives. This raises a few questions. Why was that little adjustment done anyway? After all, if it weren't in breach of the Constitution, wouldn't it have been necessary? And if it is contrary to the Constitution, why only a small adjustment? Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that something cannot be 'a bit contrary to the Constitution'? Anyway, the Secretary of State refused a request in the Lower House to have his adjustments re-examined by the Council of State. This room at least thought that was strange. The full OCW committee agreed to the request to ask the Council of State whether the conflict with the Constitution had been remedied. This request for information was accepted by the Court on 31 January, after which the Council of State replied. The judgment of the Council of State was once again crystal clear: contrary to the Constitution. What exactly is going on? In fact, there are two major problems. First of all, this legislative proposal is concerned with the continuity criterion, which applies to the possibility of joining cooperation schools. That possibility has so far only been possible under strict conditions, namely if the continuity of one or more schools has been put under pressure. By extending this continuity criterion, as is the case in this legislative proposal, a school of cooperation is no longer an exception, but can be applied to a third of the schools. This creates a kind of third type of school. This does not fit in with the dual system where there are only two flavors: public or special. In fact, this creates a regular variant which is in itself contrary to the principles of the Constitution, Article 23. There is a second point, which is even more pragmatous than the first, namely the administrative design of the cooperation school according to this bill. It assumes that the school of cooperation will be covered by the public administration. In the opinion of my group, the Secretary of State is therefore putting this public administration in trouble. My position is that the school of cooperation cannot be maintained by a public education foundation, because the competent authority of public education cannot commit itself to special education without conflicting with its philosophical neutrality, the so-called neutrality requirement. How does the Secretary of State intend to resolve this inner conflict? A public administration also has to do with the requirement for the general designation of staff. How, for example, is this compatible with demands of a philosophical nature which are very common within special education? So far, the Secretary of State has thought of resolving this by setting up an identity committee, but an identity committee can't change the authority of the competent authority, can it? I have already said that the judgment of the Council of State remained consistent. There was then an oral consultation with the Secretary of State. I must honestly say that I was somewhat surprised by the firmness with which the Secretary of State said, and I quote from the report on page 8: "To begin with, I am fighting the conflict with the Constitution. I wouldn't dare come up with a bill if I understood myself that I would trample on the Constitution." That's actually how we ended up in some kind of wells-nites, in a stalemate, you might say, but this is the Upper Chamber of the States General. This house is known as the guardian of the Constitution. This is the place where, with all due respect for the force of action, the force of work, the force of tension and the will of the Secretary of State, we must come to a final judgment on every legislative proposal. This is also the last station in the legislative process. There is no constitutional court. We cannot refer the law to the judiciary for a moment. See Article 120 of the Constitution: "The judge does not take part in the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and treaties'. This is the place and time when the senators must come to a final judgment, and that of a law of which almost all experts agree that it is contrary to the Constitution. The Council of State is not alone. The Education Council and the Netherlands Centre for Education Law (NCOR) also speak clearly. They're all renowned institutions. Board organisations such as Verus and the VGS (Association for Reformed School Education) join the critics. Even VOC/ABB, an organisation that welcomes the change of law in itself for practical reasons, and I quote from the e-mail I received from it: "We are not fighting in the basis what the various advisory bodies wrote from that legal perception." Next, I took the liberty of writing to various universities professors on education law. I received unanimous reactions from Prof. Zoontjens, University of Tilburg, from Prof. Pieter Huisman, Erasmus University Rotterdam, and from Prof. Renée van Schoonhoven, Professor of Education Law VU in Amsterdam. She says: "The adjusted continuity criterion and (as far as I am concerned) in particular the proposed change in administrative design are contrary to the Constitution." My questions to the Secretary of State are as follows. Are all these lawyers wrong? Do all these renowned institutions miss the point? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether or not this law is contrary to the Constitution, given the historical grammar interpretation of the Constitution? Is it right to discuss the teleological interpretation halfway through the journey? What does this mean for future legal proceedings? Of course, I have wondered why I am so keen on this issue on behalf of my group. Well, because it concerns the Constitution to which we have committed ourselves as Members of Parliament. That is why I have serious objections to the adoption of laws contrary to that Constitution. We shouldn't bargain with that. This room shouldn't go along with that. The First Chamber is there for a reason! In that opinion, I was strengthened this afternoon by the report of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber. Annex C on page 57 highlights legislative quality. In the event of legality, it shall be no. 1 key to the Constitution. This Chamber must ask itself whether this bill is contrary to the Constitution. I look forward to the input of my colleagues and to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's always nice to end the year a little nice too. I have often been overwhelmed with this Secretary of State, but on the issue of cooperation schools, I would like to compliment the Secretary of State for his actions. It is a precarious proposal made by the Secretary of State, but a proposal that we believe is urgently needed. In 2011, the first law came into force on the cooperation schools and, as explained by the Secretary of State in the oral consultation, the legislator meant to make it possible for special and public education to merge. The reality is that this has led to zero mergers, but that, extra-legally, there are now many forms of cooperation. There is therefore a mismatch between practice and the law. There are also schools that would like to take this step, but do not want to act outside the law. Meanwhile, the shrinkage continues at a steady pace and schools are closed down. Let's not be so cramped. As the Secretary of State explained, there are many ways of preventing a school from being closed, but it is not yet regulated by law. It's not like with this bill those schools are forced to merge, they just get a choice. Moreover, enlargement is needed. The proposal for a law is such that the content of this merged school is shaped together with parents and school. So it's not the government that decides that. It's the parents, along with the school. In this way, the Secretary of State, in my group's view, has abandoned the right to freedom of education in a chic manner. I understand, moreover, that the crampiness is mainly in confessional education, because special education is wider than just the philosophical part. Again, this law does not force a school to merge, but offers space. Confessional special schools that don't want to do this don't have to do this. The legislator offers the room, but does not force it. Article 23 (6) and (7) is a remnant of a piece of patriotic history. Does that make it a less important article? No. But as well as letter secrets are subject to change, other articles of the Constitution are also subject to change. It is no secret that my party would like to see this piece of the Constitution amended. However, that is not the motivation of my group to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u6	A debate on Article 23 does indeed seem to me to be very useful and will undoubtedly come about, at least I hope so. Mrs Gerkens is talking about the legislator. The question is whether the legislator is looking for room to make this possible, or whether I haven't heard her say about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u7	I don't quite understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u8	I am concerned about the difference between the legislator and the constitutionalist. The legislator is now talking about the space that would exist and so on. The question is, however, whether the legislator has left the legislator the room to look for that space on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u9	I understand there are two ways to see that. That is what previous speakers have said. I am convinced by the explanation given by the Secretary of State in the oral consultation that it was the intention of the legislator to give that space and that in practice we see that the space given is insufficient. The CDA spokesperson has argued that this is the space that has been given and that it really should not be anymore. That is another way of interpreting it, but that is not the interpretation we are following.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u10	You're talking about the legislator now, but I hope you mean the constitutionalist. That makes a fundamental difference. The Constitutionalist has exceptionally said that it is quite extraordinary that the legislator's scope to interpret this is limited in this case. But you think that the legislator, even though the constitutionalist says that that space is limited, may still seek more space than the constitutionalist left him. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u11	Would you like to speak through the President, Mrs Gerkens and Mr Ganzevoort?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u12	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u13	The answer to Mr Ganzevoort's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u14	I have another question. Mrs Gerkens cited the secret of letters, telephones and telegraphs. That is why we have amended the Constitution. If there is one thing that has to do with the time that would make interpretation methods possible, then it is the fact that modern technology should, by itself, be included. Nevertheless, we are amending the Constitution for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u15	I agree. I have to look at the time; it's quite limited. I see two problems. On the one hand, we are struggling in practice with the fact that this is the case in the Constitution and that its interpretation can be twofold. On the other hand, we can see from all sides that this article of the Constitution is at odds with it, but at the end of the day there is little willingness to change it. The question is, for my group too, whether fundamental fundamental rights are being violated. As I said, there is also a remnant of patriotic history in it. We all know how this piece came about. However, we can now see that modern times are at a disadvantage for students. The Secretary of State has convinced me with his explanation that this route towards the interpretation of the Constitution is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u16	One short response: I am not against this form of education by definition, but the question is whether you should change the Constitution for it. If we do not change the Constitution and say 'the field is about to be changed, so we do so', it may also happen that you will have to change something that is uncomfortable at some point, without changing the Constitution. The Constitution contains our guarantees, for the whole of the Netherlands, for the future. In there, you have to act. Those are our picket poles. In my opinion, we must deal with this very carefully. We should not expand anything if it suits us; I would find that very wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u17	I agree. That is why I have looked carefully at the proposal. Once again, I think that the explanation given by the Secretary of State in the oral consultation on this matter is sufficient to say that there is room for manoeuvre. You stated in your speech that you think that space is not there. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is maar hoe en op welke helft het kwartje valt.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u18	Mrs Gerkens has just argued that this would be particularly difficult for the confessional schools. I try to repeat her words, because they were already spoken a few minutes ago. It's my idea that this is not the problem. At the moment there can be cooperation schools, if only they are under a board of special schools. I indicated in my speech that I think it will be particularly problematic for public school administration, who will soon have to do something they cannot and should not do. For example, they must decide on the appointment of a teacher of a certain ecclesiastical colour. There may be an identitarian issue within a school, where someone can no longer be credible for the class of a special school in relation to foundation and objective. How should public administration handle this in a good and careful way? That simply cannot be left to an identity committee. I therefore think that the problem is not so much with the confessional schools, and I hope that Mrs Gerkens will respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u19	First of all I would like to point out that I put the confessional schools next to the other special schools. After all, there are many more special schools. The discussion focuses on cooperation between religious education and public education. Mr Schalk mentioned a number of examples. There might be. However, I have made it clear that this is not something that schools force to do. They don't have to merge like that, they can also find other ways of working together. That's what's gonna happen. The schools that are really so strict in teaching that they can only employ a certain kind of teacher, for example, I do not think it is appropriate to take that first step towards cooperation with public education. That's what's gonna wring. I compared it before with the PKN and the "Together on Road" churches, where the very slightly reformed ones had to go together with the heavily reformed ones. There are still reformed churches that say: we are not going to do that, that does not fit us. And there is also a lot of "Together on the Road." Again, this is not something that compels, it is an opportunity that is created. I believe that there is still so much freedom and space that I do not fear for the examples mentioned by Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u20	I'm lucky there won't be any compulsion. The question is, of course, whether it would be a good idea for a legislator to create space, because it should be there, while putting pressure on the Constitution. That is a crucial question I would like to put to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u21	You're not the only one who asked this question. Once again, I think that the extension given here has also been the intention of the 2006 Constitutional Change and of the legislator in 2011. We have to conclude that it is not yet sufficient to achieve what the 'people' would like, if I may describe it as such. Especially since there is no compulsion behind it, but it extends the scope, I do not think that the Constitution should be put under such pressure that fundamental rights are also put under pressure. In fact, I think that this broadens the fundamental right of freedom of education and that this is more in line with the intention of that part of the Constitution. In our view, this does not affect the international right to freedom of education. A cooperation school is one of the solutions offered in the event of shrinkage. Parents and schools can design this cooperation school themselves. This preserves the right for the parent to decide which form of education the child enjoys. In fact, it might stay more up to date than if we didn't pass this law. I'd like to hear if the Secretary of State supports that image. The main reason for my group to support this is the fact that parents and schools themselves are asking for this opportunity. This enables them to guarantee that education close to home remains available. If parents and schools themselves ask for this and come to a satisfactory school of cooperation together, who are we to block it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. In 2006, on the basis of an opinion from the Council of State, the fourth paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution was amended in such a way that public education could also be given outside the public school. In fact, this radical change to Article 23 is the basis of the cooperation school. This change was followed in 2011 by a sectoral law allowing the establishment of the cooperation school. In addition to the public and special schools, it was possible, under strict conditions, to set up the cooperation school. The school of cooperation exists and may exist since the Constitution was amended in 2006. But does he exist? Everyone who knows the Dutch school palette, comes across the cooperation school in which the equality between public and special education seems to be secured. But although schools call themselves cooperation schools, they do not actually exist in practice. They're special schools. The restrictions imposed by the legislator on this exception to the dual system following the constitutional amendment are so strict that it is impossible in practice to comply with them. The 2011 Sectoral Act is not enforceable. In this house, where this law passed, we are allowed to take care of that. After all, it is one of our most important tasks to test laws for feasibility. In educational practice, there is a great need for the school of cooperation. Pupils in shrinking areas are an important reason for schools to want to work together across the boundaries of their direction. Rather a cooperation school than a school in the village, is the understandable reasoning. Not only in primary education, the number of pupils is falling. Secondary education will also be dealt with from now on. As I said, the informal cooperation schools that have now emerged are in fact special education schools. Public schools are converted into special schools and then merge with special schools and call themselves cooperation schools. But this weakens the role of the public school, while the government still has a decisive role to play in this respect in accordance with Article 23. The Council of State, which is negative about this proposal, does not address this element. The Council of State does not want any adjustment and is even negative about the adaptation of the principle of continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u23	I'm gonna catch up on the trail. Mr Pijlman says that with the 2011 legislative proposal that allowed mergers between public and special education, there have been over 80 mergers, public education has been undermined. Will it be different when you say later that it may fall under the competent authority of public education? What does that mean for special education? I'm just trying to push through that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u24	I understand. Article 23 locks us in the dual system of public and special. In my view, this does not do justice to social developments anymore. Actually, that's the core problem. Now the Secretary of State gives public education a right that special education already has. This is a very good way of shaping the equivalence of public and particularly public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u25	I do not think what Mr Pijlman is saying is valid. In 2011, the same forms of education were proposed, only the form of government was different. Everything else hasn't changed. Mr Pijlman says that the Constitution locks us in and that it would be less because of this other form. But if nothing has changed and Article 23 (4) locks us in something that is not desirable, then surely you should change the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u26	I have said that since 2006 there has been a formal possibility of public schools, special schools and cooperation schools. With that you have in fact abandoned the dual system of the two systems which was very At the same time, the possibility for the cooperation school as a "third way" could not be designed because the strict requirements imposed on it mean that the cooperation schools that are now there are signs everywhere actually schools for special education if you bring it back to the dual system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u27	I will come back to what Mr Pijlman says. That would mean that if you bring the school of cooperation not under the authority of special education, but under the authority of public education, because of this change of law, success or success is guaranteed and vice versa not. I'm gonna forget about the constitutional change, but those mergers were there. Both the one who defended the Constitution in 2006, Mr De Graaf, who sits here in the front, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u28	At first reading. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u29	Yes, he did, as did the minister who defended the school of cooperation here. He said that the amendment of the constitution and the law were necessary to maintain the dual system, not to water it down, but to keep it up. That was the defense why you should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u30	The defence was that one wanted to introduce the cooperation school that was asked for in practice into a dual system. However, that is extremely complicated. We have always thought in public and special. That's what we still think. That possibility was opened up as a principle at the time, but then the law of 2011 was replaced by the political colours behind which these laws are introduced and defended, making it so restrictive that the form we wanted at that time cannot actually exist. Once again, the cooperation schools currently in existence are not, by law, cooperative schools. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u31	In my view, Mr Pijlman also makes the concept of dual dichotomy the same. He sees the distinction between public and special so that a school of cooperation is by definition the end of the dual system. I think that's pretty far-reaching. In my opinion, the debate over time about the school of cooperation has always said that it was not about ending the dual system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u32	I didn't say that at all. What Mr Ganzevoort is trying to put in my mouth is not my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u33	We have the Minutes for that, but I think what Mr Pijlman said was about the end of the dual system. My question was different. Does Mr Pijlman have it in his passion for public education, which I appreciate and which I believe is important to maintain, now about public education or public schools? The question on that point is very important. However, standing up for the importance of public education and its essentials in terms of accessibility and neutrality is something else, and that was the 2006 amendment to the Constitution rather than its administrative design. In particular, I hear Mr Pijlman pleading for the possibility of administrative design, while in my opinion his substantive passion is about public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u34	I have passion for education, special and public education. I do not recognize the passion that Mr Ganzevoort seems to draw from my words for public education. That is why I can hardly go into his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u35	It is a pity that Mr Pijlman is getting rid of it in such a way, because I have appreciated it positively that public education has its warmest attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u36	I would like to talk about the position of public and special education in our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u37	My question was as follows. Mr Pijlman is always talking about public education, but I think he is talking about the administrative design of the public school. It would be useful for the debate if we were to separate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u38	I too would like to respond to the statement that the Constitution would lock us in the dual system, as if it were something that is bothering us. I consider this a great find in our Dutch history. In this way we have achieved something once called pacification. I think we can be extremely proud that this exists. The 2006 Constitutional Amendment has created precisely that other possibility. It is therefore not true that the Constitution locks us in the dual system, however you value it further. The possibility is there and variation is possible. However, it was said at the time that this should be an exception and that it should be limited in order to keep the dual system alive. It is now the case that a practice is developing, even after that law of 2011. Then I think: beautiful, schools go their way and know how to find forms. They have their own considerations why they would not want to merge or make use of the possibilities offered by the law. How do you measure that? How is it really necessary for us to make this law? Due to the need in local situations in shrinking areas, something is already created on its own initiative and under the responsibility of the school authorities. Shouldn't we let them do their own thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u39	Of course, Article 23 has brought us a great deal. I will say something about this later. The question is whether developments in society take place only with the very difficult discussions surrounding Article 23. I think so, but I will come to that in a moment that it is time to start discussing whether more radical changes to Article 23 are needed. I know how hard that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u40	Doesn't Mr Pijlman have a say on this bill now? Which social developments is he talking about exactly? The social development that we need to talk about here has to do with schools in shrinking areas that are threatened with closure. That is what we are trying to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u41	I would be extremely pleased if I could also pursue my reasoning, which had hardly begun. The Council of State is negative on this proposal. That is, of course, an important point of discussion. What is striking about this is that the Council of State does not want any adaptation and is even negative about adapting the principle of continuity. If you turn that off against the 2006 development, I find that incomprehensible. In doing so, the Council of State accepts that legislation is not feasible. That is, in our view, a curious position. The government rejects this objection from the Council of State and addresses the principle, but again not to the extent that the school of cooperation becomes a regular form alongside the public and special school. It has to be an exception. Why not a full-fledged variant for which one can choose, so we ask the cabinet. I know that this would have consequences for Rule 23, but if this is a movement that is called for from the bottom up, Mrs Gerkens also referred to it. Why are we so cramped in that? Now that the Council of State, when it comes to the principle of continuity, is so strict on this, I believe, minor point, there is a risk that Article 23. In this context, it is appropriate to point out that a teleological-dynamic interpretation of Article 23 was supported for a long time. See, for example, the 2002 Opinion of the Education Council on Article 23. The system based on Article 23 showed great elasticity, and it is also justified whether the fundamental objective of the 1917 Pacification was still met, namely the equivalence of public and special education. In a parliamentary debate on Rule 23 in 2008, the question was asked as to where the limit of principle lies for an infringement of Article 23. That is extremely important. The Government's reply was: 'The interpretation of Article 23 has changed over the years. Article 23 is therefore read and interpreted in accordance with the existing social and political frameworks. This will undoubtedly be the case in the future. For this reason, a principled limit cannot be drawn. This depends on the social and political context, in which your Chamber as co-legislator also plays a role." I believe that the cabinet is now acting in this spirit by broadening the principle of continuity so that cooperation schools can be created as they were intended. In addition, the Cabinet applies the principle of equivalence between public and special education by allowing cooperation schools to be included in public administration, provided that in such a arrangement the guarantees of special education at school level are secured by an identity committee. We believe that this is a clear and practical approach, which appeals to the D66 Group and is based on the equivalence of public and special education. But this is also rejected by a number of advisory bodies, including the Council of State, which the D66 Group does not understand. After all, in fact, we have known this phenomenon before. Before the introduction of the Law on Cooperation Schools of 2011, it was possible in primary education to extend public schools to a direction or to extend special schools to public education. In short, it turned out that that law could relate to Article 23. We wonder why this would not be the case for this adjustment. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that. The Council of State did not include this history in its deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u42	I recognize Mr Pijlman's quote, but then there was a constitutional change to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u43	You're right about that. It would be good if it followed again. The council seems to opt for a strict and precise explanation; the legislator, the cabinet, for a manageable one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u44	I would like to underline Mr Pijlman's question to the Secretary of State on Article 84. I have just looked into the legal history of the change in Article 84, and I must honestly say that I did not find it exactly that way. I did think that special schools could expand in the public direction. I also felt that schools could be extended to include "one direction"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u45	I understand that you are asking the Secretary of State through me and the President. I am sure that this question will come back to you in your own speech, Mr Ganzevoort. It is an interesting point which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum as such. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that, too. If the Council of State finds that Article 23 cannot be applied in any way, I would like to remind you of the views on the principle of continuity with social developments, is it not obvious that this article should be revised? That's what we're asking the Cabinet. This was advocated earlier by Gert-Jan Segers, the group leader of the Christian Union, in the election campaign this spring. We also see such a plea in the election programmes of D66 and GroenLinks. Is Article 23 still sufficiently in line with current teaching practice, or does the article lead to unnecessary debates, and is this likely to be radically revised? That's what we're wondering. Anyone looking for figures on the percentages of pupils in special or public schools will soon notice that little information is available. It doesn't really seem like a theme, but how does the government know? And how, through the municipalities, does it then send to paragraph 4 of Article 23, ensuring that there is sufficient public education? I ask the government because there is no debate on paragraph 4 of Article 23, which seems obvious. After all, 32% of primary school pupils attend a public school while 68% attend a special school. Special schools are mainly run by Protestant Christian and Roman Catholic governments, each accounting for 30%. 8% of schools are run by Islamic, Hindu, Jewish, generally special or particularly neutral governments. In secondary education, 80% of pupils now attend a special "protestants-Christian' or "Catholic' school. It is also true that a large proportion of the special schools have generalized for pupils. This is also important with regard to the identity of a school and the identity committees. In The Hague, for example, there are many Islamic children at schools run by Catholic governments. The administrative relations in education have not kept pace with the unbundling that has taken place everywhere else. The research God in the Netherlands in 2016 shows that the majority of Dutch think that education should no longer be given on a religious basis, but schools continue to keep their foundation identity untested. The foundation has, as it were, acquired eternity value. Is the dual system as we know it in 2017 still appropriate if even the slightest adjustment, as is now the case with this proposal, involves trenches again? That is what the D66 Group is wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u46	I wonder what Mr Pijlman means to say when he says that two-thirds of the school population is special and one-third of the school population is public. Surely that can only be the case if there is a preference among parents who send their children to a certain school? Mr Pijlman says that we have to ask ourselves whether the dual system is still of today, but special education seems to have the strong preference of many parents who send their children there. What exactly does Mr Pijlman intend to do here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u47	I have already said that special education has generalised for pupils. Moreover, many of these schools have also generalised in the admission of staff. This means that they have been given a much more general character, even in terms of identity, than ever intended. The identity through the administrative embedding remains the same with all these schools. I wonder if that's from this time of year. The establishment of schools for educational and teaching reasons would be much more obvious in our view. We also know that the cabinet is working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u48	I'm a little surprised about this. Again, what does Mr Pijlman mean by generalising? I know the school field, too. Take, for example, the schools that have joined Verus. They shape their identity in a different way, in a more stringent or broader way, but all these schools are somehow trying to shape that particular character of the school. Mr Pijlman now takes that away and says: because you see that they are generalizing, you have to ask yourself whether we want this whole system. Again, two thirds of the school population is special. This can only be done because there are parents behind it who prefer to send their children to school there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u49	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u50	And you can count on these educational and educational visions to be present at these schools as well. It is precisely in the light of their own identity that they try to think about that. So I don't recognize myself at all in the image you're sketching here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u51	I would also be extremely surprised if you recognized yourself in my image...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u52	I would like to hear arguments from Mr Pijlman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u53	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u54	Gentlemen, gentlemen! May I ask you to keep the interruptions brief? Mr Pijman has the floor and he responds to your comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u55	What was your specific question? I explained that our system is difficult to relate to social developments. That raises the question of whether you should be able to look fundamentally at that system. At the end of my speech, I will go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u56	It is clear that we are very different in the assessment of social developments. I do see in these social developments a desire of parents to have their children in a special school, where not only something general or neutral is happening, but where the identity of that school is being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u57	I'm not denying that at all. I am not concerned about the educational-eductic climate. I have just pointed out that many Protestant-Christian and Catholic schools are accessible to children with all kinds of directions and backgrounds. You'll say that's what parents choose. That is true, but Article 23 instructs us to ensure that there is sufficient public education. I never hear that discussion and the question of administrative identity is not asked. I'd like to see that changed. What if today, with the recognition of what the educational pace has brought us, you have also dared to acknowledge that society has changed 100 years after that, and that this should also have consequences for Article 23, to which would a new article on freedom of education have to comply? What does our society need? In a debate to be held on the adaptation of Article 23, the starting point for D66 should be that children of different backgrounds in a multi-cultural society like ours meet at school. It reduces segregation, polarization and inequality of opportunity. Schools must be accessible to every child. In addition, we believe that citizens have the right to establish and govern schools. Religious and educational education can be part of the curriculum. We have had a debate on this. The governments, the Empire and the municipalities, monitor the quality and play an active role in creating equal opportunities for each child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u58	The latter sounds as if Mr Pijlman indicates that there would be no equal opportunities in some schools. I think that's not so bad right now. If you are going to generalise and each school must be accessible to all children, then you are forcing schools that have their own identity from a certain freedom of direction in the direction of a kind of open attitude. Then you say: everything is generalized, so we have to make a school of cooperation now. I do not quite follow that reasoning. Can Mr Pijlman explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u59	I'm not talking about cooperation school anymore. I am trying to look beyond Article 23 and indicate what we believe could be new elements in a new Article 23. I am well aware that the basic principles I am now referring to, for example, for reform schools, would have very profound consequences. From a social point of view, however, I think that we should also dare to question the administrative identity of schools and, in the interests of the community, to look again at the educational pace. Adapting the Constitution is a path with many obstacles and adapting Article 23 of the Constitution will be even more difficult if possible. In the case of previous constitutional changes, due to all the sensitivities, you see Article 23 as not being included. It is not the intention of the D66 to repeat the school struggle, but everyone will have to admit that philosophical, in the sense of religious, direction can no longer be the dominant concept of organization when it comes to the further design of the freedom of education. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The D66 looks forward to the government's replies with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u60	Stand still, Mr. Pijlman. I see Mr Schalk. For anyone who approaches the interrupting microphone: please be brief, if possible, and a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u61	I'm going to do it briefly, Mr. Chairman. Would Mr Pijlman still like to tell us how he looks at the problems I have raised from the SGP Group, namely those of how I should go back to the cooperation school, such a public administration, to talk about philosophical issues? That's my first question. The second is more about the discussion on Article 23. I understand from the President that she would like to conduct it later, if we really come to speak on that subject. So I'm gonna leave that one alone for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u62	The second question, Mr Schalk, is more of a question that we should discuss in a room. That would be very interesting, by the way. With the first question we go back to the cooperation school. I believe that the solution chosen by the cabinet can be adequate: not at administrative level which regulate identity, but at school level with an identity committee with guarantees, which allows special education, if indeed that identity is still religiously visible, to feel safe. Conversely, of course, this also applies: if a special school represents a public element, is such neutrality sufficiently guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u63	My final question, Mr President. How can the public authority decide on philosophical elements provided by the identity committee? Does Mr Pijlman not see that this brings about an enormous internal conflict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u64	Excuse me, I didn't hear that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u65	Does Mr Pijlman not see that this creates an internal conflict, if public administration, with neutrality requirements, has to deal with a philosophical situation presented by the identity committee and where the competent authority then has to take a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u66	No, I don't see that objection and certainly not in practice. It is precisely the schools that want to work together in this new form, the boards that want to do so, that will ensure that this school of cooperation with an identity committee is the right way forward for them. They don't have to do this. They can also merge, also in a shrinking region, for example only within the Protestant-Christian or Catholic pillar. If they want to cross these boundaries, they also realize what that means for identity. We believe that such a committee, which proposes to the cabinet, is an extremely feasible practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. A cooperation school is a fusion school in which both public and special education is offered. So far, so good. With this bill, the government wants to broaden the scope for establishing a school of cooperation. The social need for cooperation schools in sparsely populated areas with declining numbers of pupils is met. The current law already allows for official cooperation, but it is subject to so many conditions that most schools currently opt for informal cooperation. It is now proposed to ease the continuity criterion whereby one of the schools to be merged is threatened with liquidation by increasing the lifting standard by a margin of 60 pupils in the original legislative proposal. Furthermore, the merger test for mergers leading to the formation of a cooperation school is abolished. Finally, the legislative proposal provides that a school of cooperation can be maintained by a public education foundation and that the identity of the schools concerned will be guaranteed through an identity committee at school level. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can give his views on the original proposal for the cooperation school, which dates from 1995. How did that relate to the Constitution? The current proposal goes less far than the proposal at the time, which, for example, made it possible to set up a school of cooperation possible. Why are we going less far now? On the original proposal, the Council of State considered that the proposed extension of the possibility of forming a school of cooperation by adjusting the continuity criterion would make the school of cooperation contrary to the Constitution a regular variant. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the government has opted for a tightening of the original proposed standard, i.e. a higher bar. The standard that determines whether a school is threatened with abolition is, moreover, in line with an opinion of the Education Council, now no longer everywhere increased by a margin of 60, as in the original legislative proposal, but only in the most sparsely populated areas has been increased by such a margin, which then decreases as the lifting standard is higher, so that the effect of the legislative change occurs mainly in sparsely populated areas. This is a step forward, both in the direction of the Council of State and in the direction of the Education Council. The tightening of the continuity criterion therefore means that the scope of the law has become more limited in relation to the original legislative proposal, in particular as regards areas with a higher population density. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how, in the opinion of the Government, the term'regular variant' should now be defined and how the changes made ensure that the expected numbers of cooperation schools are excluded from that definition, so that the school of cooperation remains an exception. How many new cooperation schools can we expect after the introduction of this amended law? How many new cooperation schools has the current law led? If the current law does not work in practice, what happens when the shrinkage strikes and the schools in a village can no longer exist separately? With the scope in the current law, 17% of schools could become a formal school of cooperation, but de facto no school does. Does the new law give enough room now? And, according to the Secretary of State, how much of that space, which would be around 30%, will actually be filled in? What does he expect? And how does that relate to the spirit of the Constitution as set out by the Council of State? The Council of State pointed out that the government foundation cannot be the competent authority of a cooperation school, because the government cannot offer special education without conflicting with the demands of philosophical neutrality which apply to it. On the other hand, the government has argued that it is precisely the element of equality between public and special education that has been the reason for opening up the possibility for public authorities to maintain a school of cooperation. At present, only civil-law directors are allowed to do so. Moreover, the monitoring of the identity, i.e. the public or special character of the school, which is invested in the current legislation at administrative level, is transferred to the level of the school by setting up a well-balanced identity committee. In fact, the government's interpretation of the identity takes place within the walls of the school. My group agrees with that. If the members of my group see it right that the Constitution does not, in principle, stand the way, I ask the government. How can we prevent the government from conflicting with its demands of philosophical neutrality? How does the composition and control of the identity committee guarantee the equivalent position of special and public education? What powers does the committee have with regard to the way in which the public character and the special identity of the school of cooperation are implemented? Apart from these possible powers, the legislative proposal lays down the obligation to set up a dispute settlement facility and the formation of a cooperation school requires the agreement of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u68	I hear Mr Bruijn asking the government whether the Constitution is hindering this change. He already knows the answer to that question: the government does not think it is. But does Mr Bruijn agree with me that we are here to check whether the government is right, and if so, whether or not we could play a role that not only the Council of State but also a number of important advisers and teachers in this area say that it is? In other words, what does the question of whether the Constitution stands in the way of this, if it is not for the government to answer that question, but for Mr Bruijn himself to answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u69	That would be a fair question if it were as binary as Mr Ganzevoort suggests. When I read the opinions of the Council of State and the Education Council and look at the continuity criterion, it does not say in the opinion, not even in the last opinion, of the Council of State, contrary to what was mentioned earlier, that the use of the continuity criterion would not relate to the Constitution. The opinion of the Council of State states that I am speaking here about the extent to which that continuity criterion is changed and the number of schools resulting from it and whether that number is still related to the risk of elimination or that it becomes a regular variant. That is why I asked the government what we actually mean by a'regular variant'. Is that 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100%? So it's a spectrum we're looking at. I come to the second aspect, which I was just working on and which I think Mr Ganzevoort's question also addressed, namely the identity committee. I'll take the advice of the Education Council. It states that the Education Council does not object to the existing practice of informal cooperation with an identity committee, but that it insists and advises that the position and task of the identity committee should be more specific, and of course preferably through the field. I'll come back to that later. If it were so simple that we could say 'it is black or white, there is or is not a relationship with the Constitution', I would indeed not have to ask the government the question. But it's not like that, so I'll ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u70	Mr Bruijn has a point on these points, so I am happy to follow that. But the real issue is, of course, the third issue, namely whether the administrative direction can be the administrative suspension under a public administration. The Council of State and also the advice of the Dutch Association for Education Law requested by the government explicitly state: no, that suspension really cannot. They're very digital about that. The rest is a gradual discussion. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u71	When I read the exegesis of the Education Council of the opinion of the Council of State, I see that the Education Council says that there is no objection in itself to the figure of the Identity Committee to ensure that there is an identity that you seek at school level. I got it right here. But you need to define better what exactly the tasks, mandates and powers of that identity committee are. I think we all agree that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u72	Mr Ganzevoort, for a very small interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u73	I didn't ask about the identity committee. We can talk about that for a long time, but I asked about the hanging under a public administration. That is quite different from a discussion about the identity committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u74	I do not agree with Mr Ganzevoort. Because it's not a direct hanging under a public administration. No, that's where an identity committee is put in order to guard the special character. That may be under a public administration, but there's an identity committee in between. What does the Education Council say about that? He says: I have no objection to that, but better define what the mandates of the identity committee are. What exactly is the role of the Identity Committee? Moreover, there must also be a dispute settlement and the participation of both original schools must also agree with the whole movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u75	I hear so many questions from Mr Bruijn that I wonder whether the VVD Group also thinks that there is something wrong with the legislative proposal on this issue. After all, an identity committee is appointed without sufficient detail. When it's said the field has to fill it out, my question is who the field is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u76	The field, that is the teachers, the schools, the institutions and the administrators, in which we have a great deal of confidence in principle and which we prefer to give as much responsibility as possible. In line with the opinion of the Education Council, my group is indeed concerned with the idea that the movement is good, but that it needs to be filled in by the field, particularly with regard to the composition of the Committee on Identity. Moreover, there is the freedom of schools to give details themselves. I'm thinking of a hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u77	May I conclude from this that you are actually hanging a very important part of this law from the identity committee, which you do not think is sufficiently filled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u78	I am following the opinion of the Education Council on this subject, and I am waiting for the Government's response before I take our final position together with my group. For the time being, we attach great importance to the opinion of the Education Council, which believes that the implementation of the identity committee as a guarantee of identity in the school is a viable way, even if it is subject to public or special governance. However, according to the Education Council, care must be taken to ensure that the field makes this more concrete in a permanent discussion on what exactly the identity committee should be able to do, what mandates are there and so on. This is quite apart from the Committee on Disputes, which has already been incorporated into the law and which, of course, is also a way out of problems, and apart from the fact that the co-determination councils of the original schools have to agree to this whole school of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u79	You mention the Education Council, I mention the Council of State. When we talk about our advisory bodies, it is the Council of State in particular. Then it is about whether you can bring it special education under the competent authority of public education. Then the identity committee will be there, but it does not have a decisive vote. It is the competent authority of public education, which is about both schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u80	That's right. That's why it depends very much on what you equip the identity committee with. If that were not so complicated, the Council of State would not have needed twenty pages to interpret the Constitution itself in such a way as to reach the conclusion it draws. If you read the advice of the Council of State correctly, you will see that it is not a matter of principle against the public administration, but of what will eventually happen in that school and how the identity will be monitored. If there weren't a single layer between the public administration and the teachers in the schools, you'd have a problem. There is now a solution which is also supported by the Education Council and which appears to work in practice, independently of the Disputes Committee and the assent of the co-determination council, namely an identity committee. The original bill even contained a right of veto with the Identity Committee, but that has disappeared. You can see that the whole discussion from the outset is with the Council of State and the Education Council about how to ensure that the identity of the schools is monitored in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u81	In all the documents I read, whether they are about dealing with the constitutional change or the cooperation schools, every time you are allowed to explain it as a legislator, it is possible to do so, but there is one thing in which you have to stay: the historical grammar explanation and intention ever given by the constitutionalist. That's been said every time. I'm a little hesitant to interrupt every time, because that would almost give you the impression that you're against it if schools in shrinking areas go together. This is an explanation of the Constitution. Suppose someone wants to change or think something in two years' time: you have to change the Constitution, because that is so convenient in this time. Then at that moment you have very few handles to say: now I don't do it. After all, you've done it now. That is my objection in principle. Those ten pages, or whatever they were, of the Council of State, you could also see as a good motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u82	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u83	I'm guilty, Mr. Chairman. It was a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u84	Mr Schalk, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u85	Very briefly, Madam President. I was wondering if Mr Bruijn had the correct version of the document of the Education Council, because in his own document the Council wrote: "The Council advises against requiring an identity committee at school level. According to the Board, the proposed identity committee is contrary to administrative relations within education and does not respect the position of the competent authority."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u86	I have here a letter from the Education Council of 15 April 2015. That's the most comprehensive letter about this bill. I read from this: 'This does not mean that the Council, in a general sense, has objections to the existing practice of working in informal cooperation with an identity committee'. A little further on, the Education Council writes: the council advises, considering everything, to fill in the position and task of the Identity Committee more specifically. I'm literally reading that from the letter, and I'm building on it now. It is ultimately a question of creating the possibility that is desired in shrinking areas and that is being worked on for a long time and that is whether it fits within the Constitution. The spirit of the Constitution says: you must ensure that identity in a special or public school is reasonably safe and secure. Can we, within this figure of the Committee on Identity, come into a situation where we meet what the Constitution aims to do, namely to ensure identity? If you read the letter from the Education Council, and that also fits within the idea of the Council of State as we interpret it, then the question is: how strong is the identity committee in securing identity? What can the identity committee do if a problem arises? Is there a dispute settlement? And is there also a responsibility for participation? The answer to all these questions is yes. In the end, you have to balance the importance of maintaining schools in shrinking areas, including special schools, rather than disappearing those schools, because that is what we are talking about, of course, and on the other hand we do not want to move within a Constitution, which, by the way, we disagree with D66 at the moment, but well, we have not had any change in the debate on this matter to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u87	I would like to make one final point, Madam President. I have said in my speech that I do not want a well-being game, and I do not want that on this point either. However, Mr Bruijn quotes from a 2015 piece and I quote from a 2017. The Education Council may have changed its mind. Perhaps in the course of this debate we can both take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u88	I shall continue with my speech, at least if you will allow me, Mr President. Apart from those possible powers, the legislative proposal lays down the obligation to set up a dispute settlement system. We have already discussed this and the formation of a cooperation school requires the agreement of participation. If all this does not provide sufficient resistance to any government influence on special education through public administration in the spirit of the Constitution, I ask the Secretary of State. What are the experiences in this field in current practice, in which informal cooperation already involves an identity committee? How many of the current informal cooperation schools are currently subject to public administration, and has this caused problems? The Education Council, in its letter to the Secretary of State, stated in general terms that it did not object to the figure of the Identity Committee, but recommended that it should give sufficient clarity as to the position and role of that committee for the purpose of clear relations between that committee and the competent authority, the school management, the participation board and any supervisory board, as well as sufficient guarantees of control over either the public character or the particular identity of the education, depending on the form of administration chosen. Would it be an idea, I would ask the Secretary of State, to take this advice into account, to provide a tool for the statutes of a cooperation school, with which schools can get away with and on which they can work well, if they so wish? The clarity requested by the Education Council could then be provided while maintaining the freedom of schools for their own purposes. How does the government view this possibility? My group may have a motion for a resolution on this matter. Finally, in the House of Representatives, the Strauss amendment (34512, No. 10), which provides for a review clause to be adopted within three years. Article 7a refers to the transmission of that evaluation to the States General. Now experience has shown that the States General is sometimes interpreted as the postal address across the street. I would like to hear the government's commitment, whether or not aboundingly, that the evaluation, which we have just heard about, will also be sent to the First Chamber. My group looks forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u89	Mr Kuiper, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u90	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I know the VVD as a party that holds the Constitution high. The Council of State has said that in this regime it is impossible for the school of cooperation to become a regular variant; Mr Bruijn has asked the Secretary of State for this. This was strongly confirmed in 2006. What is Mr Bruijn's conclusion? Is it institutional if the cooperation school becomes a regular variant in the dual system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u91	If Mr Kuiper puts it that way, it is, of course, unconstitutional. But that depends on how you define the term "regular variant." That's what I asked the government. The opinion of the Council of State of 22 March 2017 states that the government's movement towards the original proposal, thus raising the bar, is a good move. However, it says literally, "as the Section has considered in its earlier Opinion, the above does not alter the fact that the purpose of the legislative proposal with a limited adaptation of the continuity criterion seems to be attainable." In short, I read here that the Council of State believes that, with the change of government, we are already very close to a situation in which the purpose of the law could be achieved thanks to the continuity criterion. That instrument is therefore not rejected by the Council of State. Next, it is a question of whether it is necessary to bridge the limited space that still exists, or whether it fits within a feasible interpretation of the Constitution. Do we not think it is necessary to bridge that last space, which the Council of State would like so much, also in view of the balance that we have to make? So it doesn't say that this is necessarily a must; it's an advice. Then everything revolves around the question of what is a regular variant and what is an exception. Is an exception 10%, 20%? So you end up in a spectrum of thoughts where you have to weigh up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u92	Mr Kuiper, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u93	In the same document from which you quote, the Council of State also writes that the scope and scope of the principle of continuity, as set out in this law, is contrary to the Constitution. Of course we can define it and so on, but that's also what's being said clip-and-ready there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u94	But that was about the original bill. In the light of the revised legislative proposal, the Council of State considers that the purpose of the bill can be achieved with a limited adaptation of the continuity criterion. That's what I'm reading here. I'm getting a few things out of that. First of all, I take it out that the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u95	Mr Bruijn, you can say more about this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u96	Excellent, Mr. Chairman. Shall I close up then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u97	Yes. Thank you very much, Mr Bruijn. I call Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. The discussion of this bill by our group has been prepared by two people, by Mr Bikker and myself. But to give Mrs Bikker a little bit of the feeling that the holiday is coming on this last day, I will speak on this bill. The handling of this bill on the school of cooperation puts us in the midst of an ideological and constitutional battle over Article 23 of the Constitution. It must be said that in a more moderate attitude of the cabinet this struggle would have been avoidable. After all, the school of cooperation can exist as an exception to the dual system we know. Many in the country, including my group, can live well with that. But what is now before us goes on and must lead to a review of our group. The Secretary of State is looking for room for a new type of cooperation school, in which he continues to believe despite much criticism. He went against various opinions. Something new must be created when it is not yet clear whether this is the form the field needs. It is remarkable that there is a legislative proposal in the First Chamber which the Council of State has said twice that it is contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution. That judgment was given not only at the beginning of the legislative process, but also at the beginning of the legislative process, and I would also like to say this to Mr Bruijn on the basis of the amended legislative proposal that has been tabled, prior to the debate in the Senate. For the First Chamber, where quality and legality of legislation are important concepts and where legislation is tested against the Constitution, some alarm bells must go off. So, in other words, there is a legislative proposal on the table which, on a number of points and repeatedly by the Council of State, has been said to provide an explanation to the Constitution that cannot be explained. As far as our group is concerned, this means: do not. Well, letting it go has a price. It harms the basic rules of the education system, which has existed since 1917 and is supported by a significant constitutional agreement. It is one of the great codifications that was also a pacification. There is also the consideration of not letting the bill go through. It is quite possible to see for the time being what is happening from the bottom up. Education in the Netherlands is something that comes up from society around the informal school of cooperation. I would like to come back to what was just said about the Education Council, the Identity Committee: I think this concerns the current situation in this informal school of cooperation. What is the big problem with the informal school of cooperation and growing from the bottom up? It is not clear to us what the prime motive of the Secretary of State is. That makes the proposal unclear. Three motives can be distinguished. Firstly, there is the threat of school abandonment and therefore the continuity of schools. That is the motive that everyone understands and on which there is consensus. The cooperation school should confine itself to this exceptional situation. As has already been argued, this was always the starting point for legislation, in 2006 and in 2011. Secondly, there is a motive that is constantly interfering with it: the desire to facilitate and extend the possibilities of forming a school of cooperation. In doing so, the Secretary of State refers to changes in society and states that he "want to give a more modern interpretation of the principles that have been used in the past." It is the vagueness of these terms that raises questions for my group. In his speech, Mr Pijlman also took into account what he called social change. If the school of cooperation is to remain an exception in the dual system, then the motive of relaxation and expansion is at odds with this. What exactly does the Secretary of State mean by that motive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u99	I would like to ask Mr Kuiper: if the school of cooperation does not become a regular variant, is it constitutional?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u100	Yes, the school of cooperation is constitutional, because before that we changed the Constitution in 2006 and in 2011 there was a law calling it a school. There are legal ways to have a cooperation school. At the same time, we do not have to regulate everything by law in this country and there is also the practice in which schools can seek each other out. There are also many informal ways of meeting the needs below.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u101	I understand the latter, but it was the first thing I cared about. It is therefore constitutional, as long as it does not become a regular variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u102	Of course, that was exactly what the Council of State said: the school of cooperation is fine, but it must be an exception to the system that we know, which is enshrined in our Constitution and which should be binding on all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u103	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u104	What percentage does Mr Kuiper set the limit between what is a regular variant and what is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u105	I'm not talking about percentages or figures here. I see the school of cooperation as a response to a situation in which a last school of a direction or a public school no longer survives in the local situation and where cooperation is the way to keep education accessible to children. This is often the case in shrinking regions and sparsely populated areas. Everything we are reading about here and what is said by the Council of State, the Education Council and others is tailored to that situation. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about something much bigger or different. This is what we're talking about. It was also explicitly the intention of the legislator that we should talk about this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u106	You are right to say that in 2006 we made the cooperation school constitutionally possible according to a certain variant, but in reality we see that the variant cannot actually be used, because the restrictions are extremely harsh. Does your speech mean that you understand that the government is adjusting the principles of continuity, so that the school of cooperation is actually possible and that you do not support what the Council of State states in its opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u107	The principle of continuity is, of course, an instrument to ensure that there can be sufficient public and special education. This can be arranged in different ways, but the most important thing is that there can be a cooperation school. For this we have a law, which has indeed pointed a certain way in that direction. The schools are reluctant to make use of it. I do not know whether that has anything to do with the restrictions you mentioned. It can also simply be a trade-off of school boards themselves. They can say that in their situation they go too far to do so, but if there is another way to work together, we are happy to do so. I believe that in the field, the signal of the constitutional change and also the signal of the 2011 law in itself have been very important in order to seek each other out and see how the situation could be "answered'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u108	With the 2006 Constitutional Amendment and the 2011 Sectoral Act, we have made it possible to implement this new school of cooperation. If you see that the instrument cannot actually be used, is it logical that the government intervenes and extends the principle of continuity? The Council of State is also opposed to this. This creates a situation in which you have legislation that turns out not to work. Then the cabinet must intervene. The field is asking for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u109	It's just a question of what exactly the field is asking. I will also ask the Secretary of State: make it clear what exactly is going on there. We have a law. At the same time, there are school boards that make other considerations and cooperation schools are established. People know how to find each other in some kind of creative process. It's actually very good that that happens. I would therefore say: let that happen for a while, because we must first have what the field needs. Mr. Pijlman fills it out. He says this is because the law has too many restrictions. I don't know if it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u110	Finally, Mr Arrowman. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u111	Once again, I think it is important to note that Mr Kuiper says that the 2006 and 2011 amendments have been a major breakthrough in the establishment of the cooperation school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u112	I'm not against cooperation school. I hope that's what I said at the beginning. I think it can indeed have a function in certain areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u113	A debate is also there to sharpen your own mind. That's what I'm trying to do. Mr Kuiper has just said that he considers the constitutional right that there are cooperation schools. I agree, because we have dealt with this with the constitutional reform. The opinion of the Council of State concerns the continuity criterion. According to the Council of State, it must be an exception, otherwise it becomes too general and contrary to the Constitution. That is also what I am saying in black and white, that the competent authority of a public school cannot be the competent authority of a special school. The change in the governance model is part of this proposal. My question is whether Mr Kuiper thinks that at the moment is contrary to the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u114	I agree with what the relevant section of the Council of State points out. I'll get back to you in a minute. It is indeed good to note together that the school of cooperation is of course not institutional. The point of the Council of State was that you are actually creating a new type of school, if you expand the possibilities so much that schools that are still far away from the moment when they are actually threatened with abolition are already given the opportunity to set up a cooperation school. This does not fit in with our Constitution, because it would completely undermine the dual system. I was naming a number of motives. They're mixed up in the bill. I've already appointed two. The second motive was easing and broadening with the use of social change. The third motive is to open up the possibility for public school boards to form a cooperation school. This point has been strongly defended by Mr Pijlman. With this bill, the Secretary of State gives the impression that it is up to him to strengthen the position of public education. He says that he is concerned with equality, but it is obvious that public education, given the scope of the law, will strengthen itself by taking care of the school of cooperation. I don't know if that motive should play a role here. These three motives are mixed up. That does not make it entirely clear why this bill is needed in this form. Then there are the objections of the Council of State to which, in my group's view, there has been no decisive response from the Secretary of State. The first objection concerns the scope of the law. It ensures that such a large number of schools fall within the criteria of the principle of continuity in order to become a school of cooperation, that an exceptional situation can no longer be mentioned. It's gonna be a regular variant. The Secretary of State's reply to this objection is not satisfactory. If a large number of schools, I believe that this is going to reach a third of primary school schools which are eligible to become a cooperation school, there is no longer an exception. This is contrary to the Constitution, because it does not regard the school of cooperation as a regular variant within the dual system. So this is not about working with numbers or the gradual differences between them, but about what those numbers say and the meaning of the law, the meaning. The scope of the law is to allow considerable scope for cooperation schools, even outside sparsely populated areas. We would like to hear the Secretary of State on this point. The second point that conflicts with the Constitution is the figure of a public administration, where it comes with a state influence, which must guarantee philosophical neutrality, but which now has the task of contributing to the provision of special education. That's the quadrature of the circle. That's just not possible, says the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u115	The answer of the Secretary of State, namely that he is concerned with equivalence, is simply not an answer to this principle. The fundamental point is that a public administration must ensure neutrality. Moving the discussion towards equivalence is not an answer to that fundamental constitutional objection. The opinion of the Council of State is clear: according to the constitution, a school of cooperation cannot be maintained by a public education foundation. There is not a word of French here as far as my group is concerned. The ordinary legislator will have to accept this. The Education Council is also of this opinion. Why hasn't the Secretary of State considered taking the element of housing that administration completely out of the law and leaving the situation as it was at this point? It's still possible. The dual education system is intended to express the plurality of the Dutch population. In addition to public education, which is neutral and generally accessible, there is special education, in which philosophical beliefs and directions can express themselves. This often results in beautiful forms of involvement and social support. Both forms, public and special, assume each other and also need each other. In order to be special, special education needs public education and vice versa. That is the meaning of the dual system. Too much government regulation can shake balance here. The cooperation school should therefore remain the exception in order to continue to respect this principle within wider education. The Secretary of State points out the problem that schools with declining numbers of pupils do not opt for the current design in the 2011 Act. That problem should be clarified in our view. It must be provided with clearer information on what is really happening on the ground. As far as we are concerned, further research would be needed here. The legislator comes too soon with conclusions. The question is whether schools will feel invited by this new legal framework to form a formal cooperation school. It is not yet clear whether that will happen. That wish may be the father of the thought, but the question is whether it will happen, and with that this law could have the same fate as the law of 2011. Many schools of special education will not find this an attractive route. A public education foundation will have to promote the general and public character of the school. That becomes the dominant culture and an identity committee cannot change that much. Once again, the question needs to be asked as to the need for the proposed establishment. Why not build on what is already forming in practice? Why not look further at the possibilities for regional coordination in the provision of schools, as is already happening today? In one place there is a school for public education, and in the other place there is a school for special education, and they help each other. In my group's opinion, this proposal deserves a review. Constitutional principles are at stake in a proposal which does not make it convincing that it is now going to provide the decisive solution or will have added value in practice. We do not think that the school of cooperation should get there in this way, under so much government direction. We also do not believe that there should be a controversy about Article 23 of the Constitution. This could easily be the result of the introduction of this law. We think that price is too high. Nevertheless, we look forward to the debate and the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u116	I'm just responding to the last thing you said about not causing controversy. However, according to your group chairman in the House of Representatives, it has been there for a long time, because he is asking for a revision of Rule 23. What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u117	I think this was in a debate in the run-up to the elections to the House of Representatives. What he was referring to is probably a very different direction from what you are thinking, namely that all education in the Netherlands could become special. That is the preference of many. In addition to Christian, pedagogical-eductic variants and any variant, public education can become a direction within our educational system. By the way, that is an old thought that lives within Christian parties. Couldn't all education become special?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u118	This is an extremely radical revision of the 1917 educational pace. By the way, I have just said something about what this system should look like. I think I'm getting close to you, too. However, I am concerned with the fundamental point that your party also advocates that Article 23 be substantially revised. You just underlined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u119	You don't have to be surprised. We do not see the Constitution as something that cannot change. Of course, the Constitution can change. It is subject to continuous change. I believe that the proposals on pacification and Article 23 arising from your speech are equally far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u120	We agree on that. I am much more concerned that you are also aware of other social conditions and want to look for changes to Article 23...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u121	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u122	...doing justice to the developments in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u123	Education is a matter of public interest, of all of us. We must have a system in which we all feel comfortable, as far as we can, of course. That's definitely important. You're referring to something Gert-Jan Segers said. You could argue that I actually did so in my speech... that public education and special education also need and assume each other. The point of the Constitutional article is that there is always sufficient public education everywhere. I will defend it with all my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u124	I have two questions for Mr Kuiper, starting with the numbers. I heard him say three things. First of all, he doesn't want to talk about numbers. Secondly, he is afraid that a third of the schools will be involved. Then it's not an exception anymore. That's the question, but okay. Thirdly, he said further on in his speech that he is afraid that no school will participate because it is unattractive. Let us point out that no school will be forced to participate, not even a special school. It is only about the possibility for a school that wants it and where participation agrees. Let's sit somewhere in the middle and reach about 10% to 15%. That is much more than Mr Kuiper himself expects. Would it not be reasonable to speak of an exceptional situation? Shouldn't we give the schools that want it so badly, even the special schools that want it for their survival?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u125	The figures I get from the answers given by the Secretary of State to the Council of State's second opinion. I believe that it refers to a percentage of 31 schools which would be covered by this new law and could become a school of cooperation. That's pretty substantial. I asked how this relates to the exceptional situation, namely that the cooperation school should be an exception in order not to undermine the dual system. That is why I mentioned that figure. You're asking me to look at it pragmatically. If it were 15% of the schools, can you live with that? I like to reason in principle. We have here a Constitution that has meaning for our country and the legislator, but also for social peace around education. I'd like to cherish it, too. So I would like to start on that principled side. The education system isn't something you're gonna work on. I'd like to approach it in principle. If something is constitutional, we should call it that and we should not go that way. We have all been able to follow the considerations of the Council of State. It may be a solution to a situation where there is a threat of abolition, but if it becomes a regular variant, it is an institutional one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u126	We agree on that, but then it's really about the question of what else you think is a regular variant. Then where's the border? In the current situation 17% of schools can do it, but no school uses that space. Apparently, no school wants that. What can you reasonably expect if you expand it to 30% and extrapolate it? Then you get somewhere between 10% and 15%. That is already very high because you expect almost no school to participate. Then that is entirely within what the Constitution writes, namely still not a regular variant? Surely that cannot be considered to be in any way contrary to the Constitution? It wants to give room for schools that want it, as long as it is an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u127	Something becomes a regular variant when, on top of the situation that gives reason to talk about a school of cooperation, that is, the threatening abolition of schools by falling through apprenticeship standards, is going to make a kind of headline that will allow more schools to use it. I'd just like to limit it to those schools I just mentioned. The law says that too: it is for those schools that almost fall through their hoofs and then go looking for each other for a collaboration. That has always been the idea of the constitutionalist and the legislator. A regular variant is all that comes on top of that, all the heads we put on top of that. That was also exactly the point of the Council of State. He said: if you use these numbers, a lot more schools will use them which are not at all in that situation but which might be able to get into it. It seems the intention of this legislator to extend the possibilities so that a regular variant is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u128	Finally, Mr Bruijn, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u129	The Council of State doesn't say this is happening. The Council of State takes into account that it could happen. If we look at the practice, 17% of schools can make use of that possibility, but zero schools do. Then the question is how great this fear must be in reasonable terms that it becomes improperly large numbers for which it is not intended at all. I shall put that question to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u130	You're right. I read the bill in such a way that the Secretary of State does. It wants schools to use this new legal framework. This will apply to a much larger number of schools than only those which are strictly in an emergency situation in those shrinking areas. That's why I take that seriously. I take the Council of State seriously. They're lawyers. I can't expect them to see how they can fold it a little bit. No, they're wondering what the legal framework is and what's possible in there. I think they have given us a very clear message about this. The fact that there are cooperation schools, even outside the legal framework that we have, is fine. Something's growing in practice. I'm not against it. So that informal cooperation school is already here. Perhaps we should say at some point that more needs to be done. At the moment, a lot of schools are finding their way too. And we have to honor that, too. They leave that legal framework for a while, because it seems to give them too many complicated questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. Education is a crucial value in the shaping years of children and young people. They get to know the world step by step and are the easiest and eagerest to learn new things in this period. In those years, they should be given every opportunity to acquire knowledge and skills, to form their personality, their worldview and their interests. A favourable, inspiring start will continue to work for a lifetime. Parents and carers have a great responsibility in this and education is invaluable. Children from sparsely populated areas have the same right to good education as children from densely populated areas. Small schools in small communities are invaluable. They should be nurtured as a breeding ground for educational quality and community spirit. Take the children from Spijk, my father's home. The village is small, is secluded and the last store closed years ago. The village has been fighting for years against the shrinkage and for the preservation of the village school. The news that the school had to close, struck like a bomb at the end of 2016. The village council recruited pupils in other villages and Dutch parents in Germany. It just seemed like it was working and then it just didn't. Hope glorified on the horizon when it became known that the municipality would house a Syrian family in the rectory next to the Catholic church. However, when it became known that another family had to move, the school still went under the lifting standard. Then why doesn't the village school from Spijk become a cooperative school? After all, with the amendment of Article 23 of the Constitution in 2006, the school of cooperation has been given a constitutional basis and since 2011 it has been legally allowed to form a school of cooperation. Parents, schools and school boards in villages like Spijk see the cooperation school as one of the solutions to maintain a diverse and high quality educational offer. However, in practice the possibilities offered by the law do not appear to offer sufficient space. For example, the current continuity criterion is a problem for primary school administration wishing to form a school of cooperation. As the example of Spijk illustrates, the forecasting tool does not always work well in areas with low lifting standards. It is also felt that the regulatory system at administrative level is too much of an infringement of their freedom of establishment, and that is understandable. As a result, the number of informal cooperation schools is increasing. In doing so, the Board cannot include the dual nature of the cooperation school in the statutes, which does not ensure that both public and special education are maintained by the competent authority. A potential problem here, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, is that parents have no certainty that the public character and special identity of the school of cooperation are guaranteed in the longer term. How can a diverse and high quality education offer be maintained in a village like Spijk? Targeted adjustments are needed to remove barriers to formal cooperation schools within the constitutional framework. That is exactly what the present legislative proposal is intended to do, along two lines. Firstly, the possibilities for creating a school of cooperation are being extended. Secondly, the administrative design of the cooperation school is simplified and the rules are designed in particular at school level. For school boards, the bill offers more room. For parents, it offers more legal certainty. It is in line with the argumentation in the opinion of the Netherlands Centre for Education Law. And according to the advice of the Education Council, space is offered in sparsely populated areas such as Spijk with a low lifting standard. Where the proposal deviates from the opinion of the Education Council, my group's assessment is convincingly supported in the explanatory statement and then in the further statement of reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u132	Ms Sent suggests that the Netherlands Centre for Education Law supports this direction of solution. It probably means only the part of the continuity criterion, not the part of the administrative suspension, because that is what the centre in its report is extremely negative about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u133	Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum, it has been explained in detail that the Netherlands Centre for Education Law does not consider it possible for a public administration to run a cooperation school. This opinion is based on the premise that a public administration cannot shape the particular identity of a school. It is precisely for this reason that the bill has chosen to invest it with the identity committee at the school itself. The design of the bill is therefore a response to those concerns of the Netherlands Centre for Education Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u134	It is possible to discuss whether the identity issue will then be the solution. However, I do not agree with the suggestion that the Netherlands Centre for Education Law would support this direction of a merged school, a cooperation school, under public authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u135	I have just indicated that the legislative proposal is based on the concerns of the Netherlands Centre for Education Law about the competent authority and that laying the competent authority at the identity committee at the school offers a solution to this. The current legislative proposal in this Chamber has been discussed in detail in relation to the Constitution. In doing so, the Secretary of State, in my group's view, has stated that the proposal before us is not contrary to the Constitution. It remains within the text and purpose of the constitutionalist. I'd like to go into that in more detail. The continuity criterion is in line with the Education Council's proposal, and thus goes a small step further than the Council of State wishes. In doing so, the Council of State's standard is hardly an extension to the current situation. Given that this is a gradual consideration, as has already been mentioned in the debate between Mr Kuiper and Mr Bruijn, there can be no contradiction with the Constitution. Only in exceptional situations is a merger possible. This means that a cooperation school remains an exception in the dual system. In administrative design, Article 23 of the Constitution assumes the equivalence of public and special education. This objective is not achieved if the maintenance of a cooperation school can be invested with foundations for special education and cooperation bodies, but not with public education foundations. In doing so, the present legislative proposal introduces guarantees within the system for maintaining the different identities with identity committees, statutes and dispute settlement arrangements. The present legislative proposal provides for a limited extension of the possibilities of establishing a school of cooperation. At the same time, it simplifies its administrative structure. This responds to the need for cooperation schools in sparsely populated areas such as Spijk with declining numbers of pupils. In addition, a cooperation school remains an exception in the dual system. The proposal before us can therefore count on the support of my group. After all, it promotes the current dual order rather than affecting it. Lowering the legal thresholds and preventing barriers will make it easier to meet society's desire to work together across denominational boundaries. This cooperation is particularly necessary in shrinking areas, where the freedom of education and the freedom of choice of parents are under pressure. This brings me to the only remaining question for my group, namely whether, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, there are other ways of maintaining small schools. As a result of an amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, the impact and design of the legislative proposal before us will be monitored, also looking at how the legislative amendment has its effect in different regions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to undertake to link with that evaluation an analysis of additional possibilities to maintain small schools? I look forward to hearing the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u136	I have the impression that Mr Kuiper would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u137	That's the case. I appreciate that Mrs Sent says in her contribution that the dual system is important for the Labour Party and that she also wants to move within the constitutional framework. She says that this is the case with the continuity criterion and that it does not conflict with the Constitution. But the point of the Council of State was precisely that its handling in most municipalities introduces a standard far beyond the lifting standard. This means that the school of cooperation is no longer connected to the threat of school closure. That is precisely why the Council of State says: it is now becoming a regular variant and it is competing with the Constitution. What's your response to that, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u138	The problem with the current variant is that it is too rigid. Schools cannot adequately predict what will happen to the numbers of pupils and are too sensitive to the relocation of a Syrian family or a parallel relocation of a family elsewhere. In the current situation, 17% of schools are eligible to form a cooperation school, but no school does. There are informal cooperation schools, but they do not provide sufficient security for pupils, schools, boards and teachers. Under the new continuity criterion 31% of schools may be able to meet the requirements and it is still a gradual consideration. I cannot conclude from this that it is contrary to the Constitution or that it is no exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u139	I understand what Mrs. Sent is saying. Of course, we all understand that. It has always been mentioned as an example: only one family with several children will move; then the school will fall due to the lifting standard. We all understand that. But when the step is taken to broaden the criterion that 31% of schools are covered by it, Mrs Sent mentioned that she herself also called "too" a regular variant. The Council of State says that a new constitutional change is needed for this. Based on those numbers, you can say that it keeps moving and that it's something gradual. But this is a matter of principle. A new variant will be introduced along this road. There are alternatives to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u140	I do not think that the position of principle can be distilled in a gradual way. The figures suggest that the new continuity criterion is still subject to an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u141	Mr Schalk, would you like to put your question briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u142	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I actually have two questions. Can Mrs Sent explain why she believes that this law would strengthen the dual system? That wasn't entirely clear to me. Mrs Sent has addressed the principle of continuity in detail, but the administrative form is, according to all, a much greater problem. Does she want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u143	Yes. The administrative form is fully substantiated in the explanatory memorandum with guarantees, which it fits within the Constitution. These safeguards include, inter alia, an identity committee, a dispute settlement and statutes, but these are not the only safeguards. A full list can be found in the explanatory memorandum. Mr Schalk's first question has once again slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u144	That question was about the dual system: why should it be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u145	Now there are all kinds of informal partnerships that do not provide sufficient security for pupils, schools, parents and school boards. You can also see all kinds of strange constructions: there are public schools that become special for merging and there are special schools that become public. So shadowy constructions come into being. There is insufficient clarity for pupils, schools and school boards. I believe that the present legislative proposal will provide that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. Despite the historical and fundamental choice of a dual education system, there is a need for a school of cooperation which can offer both branches of that system: public education guaranteed by the government and special education based on the wishes of citizens, which is often, but not always, religiously different. This need for the cooperation school is not yet so great that this form would begin to form a regular third movement, but the numbers up to 2016, 80 are increasing and it is likely that there will be more and more at shrinking student numbers. The law of 2011, which provides for a special form of foundation for such schools, does not apply. Whether that is because of this special form of foundation or because of a too limited continuity criterion, we do not really know. Perhaps the Secretary of State could say something about that. In any case, a formal cooperation school will be established within this special form of foundation. Informal cooperation schools cannot sufficiently guarantee both their branches. Their competent authority normally has a more limited statutory purpose. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is indeed useful to contribute by legislation that cooperation schools should have a competent authority that explicitly has the maintenance of a cooperation school as one of the statutory objectives. But with the Secretary of State, we have to conclude that it makes no sense to prescribe that objective exclusively, because that is what the current law does. Thus, a foundation with a different starting point but with this additional objective, should be able to formally have a school of cooperation. Such a design could in principle comply with Article 23 (4) of the Constitution, as amended in 2006. The following are the two questions which play a key role in the debate. Firstly, assuming that we want to continue to see the school of cooperation as an exception to the rule, does the abolition risk standard laid down in the legislative proposal for at least one of the two merging schools meet the requirement that such a merger should take place only in the event of real need? And the second question: can a foundation for public education pursuant to Article 48 of the Law on Primary Education also aim to maintain a school of cooperation? The latter then focussed on: is that constitutionally possible? With regard to the first point, the continuity criterion: the legislative proposal gives considerably more scope for mergers into a cooperation school than the existing law, but it remains, of course, a consideration under which circumstances one would like to conclude that it would be better for continuity to decide on a merger across directions. I cannot see any objection to the proposed regulation in this regard. The second point is more difficult, and on this point the Secretary of State finds the Council of State, as well as the NCOR and the Education Council, to be attuned. They all feel that a public school administration cannot take responsibility for a part of a school that has a special signature. Constitutionally inadmissible, even says the Council of State. The Secretary of State is getting a little worked up by going against these advices in this way! And indeed, it seems plausible to me that, because of the constitutional responsibility for the public character of education, public administration with the dominant influence of the government can hardly be asked to take responsibility for what is expressly not public and therefore, by definition, outside of government responsibility. What does not belong to the task of the government, is it not part of the task of the foundation to which the government delegated its task? The protection structure in the form of the identity committee cannot wipe out the basic lack of public interest in this respect, can it? It is true that we are very close to the principle of separation between the Church and the State, as Mrs De Vries has just said. Moreover, an amendment to Rule 23, as Mr Kuiper has said, would immediately eliminate this whole problem. Every other foundation, other than that of Article 48, has more freedom in its choice of objectives and with every other form there seems to be no problem. Of course, not with the foundation under Article 17, which is specifically set up for it, nor with foundations for the various forms of special education, which can make it an additional objective: to maintain a school of cooperation with a department of public education. There the identity committee can then be a very useful obligation, by which influence of the local government on the character of the public part of education is preserved. It is a good thing that the law regulates that a cooperation school should have a competent authority that explicitly aims to maintain the cooperation school as its statutory objective. This is reflected in the proposal put forward by the Secretary of State. Cooperation schools which remain informal continue to lack a more clearly guaranteed embedding of their special position. It is to be hoped that legislation can lead to the choice of the formal path, contrary to what has happened so far. It seems to be considerably less resistant if the State Secretary, in Article 17d (1) of the Primary Education Act, wished to keep the foundation as referred to in Article 48 out of it. He'd be more satisfied with that, too. I would like to make one other point, a little outside this framework, but it has been discussed for a while. In particular, there is a need for a possibility of combining only secondary establishments and not directly whole schools with other denominations. It would be good for education in the smaller cores if a good solution were to be found in the spirit of the school of cooperation. I'd like to await the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. The chair goes back into the small man's stand, so it's gonna be all right. "Education is the subject of continuing concern of the government," Article 23 begins. And the tension between public and special education is the subject of ongoing discussion on the Constitution, as it is today. That discussion will be decided again with a majority vote, but that is a temporary solution, I predict. The real questions do not go away because there is a great distance between the text, purpose and background of Article 23 and the present situation. The bill of cooperation school makes that distance all the more clear. Because of time, I'm restricting myself. We wholeheartedly support the aim of the bill to make it easier to establish a formal school of cooperation. This is particularly important in shrinking areas. We do not actually see any fundamental objections to shifting the continuity criterion. In that sense, I will follow Mr Sent. That is by definition a gradual discussion. We agree with most of the other parts of the proposal. However, it is difficult for my group to understand that the government so easily ignores the constitutional objections to setting up a school of cooperation under public administration. The Council of State has twice considered this to be destructive: not compatible with the Constitution. In other words, the advice requested by the government itself from the experts in education law, the Netherlands Centre for Education Law, says: the constitutional principles prevent a model that is also maintained within a public school administration. The Secretary of State then calls his approach a "modern interpretation of the Constitution." It reminded me a bit of Trump, who translates swearing on Twitter as "modern-day presidential communication." It's actually just a simple purpose reasoning, which ignores the usual explanation. Even more precisely, the Constitutionalist himself, and we are not, made an explicit statement in the 2006 amendment on what can and cannot be done in the interpretation. The government's margin of manoeuvre is fairly precise, and this Secretary of State goes beyond that margin of manoeuvre. I would like to hear his reflection on the constitutionalist's position in 2006 on the room for manoeuvre for the legislator. At the core, it's not such a very complicated problem. It is desirable to give cooperation schools a better legal framework. A figure must therefore be found which balances on the boundary of the dual system. Both public and special education must be secured. So far, everyone seems to have. Since 2006, the Constitution has stated that public education can or cannot be given in a public school. Government supervision is essential, but it may need to be more limited. On the other hand, special education cannot be given in a school under public administration, precisely because it is at the heart of special education that the government is remote. The Secretary of State has difficulty with this conclusion. As far as I am concerned, he rightly wants public and special education to be equal. But he does not recognize that they are of the nature of the case, but also by definition asymmetric, namely in relation to the government itself. Next, I think he makes another slipper by making special education coincide with philosophical education, which can then be secured by an identity committee. That slipper, I believe, also between education and school, has passed here a number of times in the debate. But it's not really about that philosophical identity as such. It is about the fact that public education must have a major public influence on the essential characteristics, while in particular education, public authorities must remain at a distance. It is precisely for this reason that an identity committee with advisory rights has constitutionally insufficient weight to include special education, even if it is philosophical in colour, in public administration. Of course it's fine if schools have an identity committee. That would actually be a good thing for all schools, but it does not solve the constitutional problem, as the Council of State also informs this Chamber in its information. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he recognizes and recognises this asymmetry in the system. If he recognizes this asymmetry, doesn't that put his plea for equivalence in a certain light? With the proposal, the government chooses a form that is constitutionally problematic. She does not seem to find that a problem and we see in the debate in the House of Representatives, and indeed here too, that there are a lot of Members of Parliament who do not find it a problem either, if the practical problem of cooperation schools is resolved. However, in the view of my group, they are guilty of the same constitutional extortion as the Secretary of State. Conversely, we sometimes see a somewhat pavlovian reaction from special education when we come close to Article 23. My group is in the middle of this. We see that the problem of cooperation schools must be solved. We are not alarmed by the shaking of Article 23, but we are here to review legislative proposals, including their constitutional legitimacy. That's the problem here. With this law, the government gives the cooperation schools a formal basis, but that formal basis of the law is built on constitutional quicksand. This legislative proposal makes it clear once again that a thorough rethinking and revision of Article 23 is inevitable. I agree with Mr Pijlman. As far as I am concerned, this rethinking and revision should at least address the right of parents to have their preferred education offered and to have their children followed that education. As students get older, their voice will of course also count more and more. Furthermore, this rethinking and revision will have to address the importance of cultural and religious diversity as a context for all schools. This importance will have to be re-established after the depilation. Consideration should also be given to combating unwanted exclusion and segregation. I would add that the latter has relatively little to do with special or public education. The greatest segregation takes place between economically stronger and economically weaker areas, not between special or non-special schools. If we think through these elements well, we probably won't be able to reach a dual system. However, we find ourselves in a system that puts diversity first, that gives citizens' initiatives all the space and that keeps the government at an increasingly appropriate distance. The constitutional problem of the cooperation school is then out of the world, but without that rethink it continues to muddle. That muddling by definition gives this bill a more than unconstitutional stain. I would like to hear whether the Secretary of State feels the same way as my group. I would also like to hear whether he believes that this thorough reflection on the future of Article 23 is necessary and inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u148	As always, I have listened with pleasure to this rhetorically gifted speaker, but I still have a question on the opinion of the Council of State. You can, of course, look at the conclusion. You can also take the advice seriously and look carefully at the fears that lie in it. That fear is about powers, about the ultimate responsibility that lies with a public administration for what is happening in that particular school. This special school also needed to participate, with the agreement of the co-determination council, and had to agree to the statutes before they existed. As a result, the Education Council has said that you must define the powers of the Identity Committee very well. If I put all this together, I cannot conclude that it is not impossible to insert it in the spirit of the Constitution, especially if you read the Council of State's opinion correctly. This is about powers. If, on the basis of this opinion, we call on the government to define those powers more precisely by the field itself, we have a motion ready for that, then surely we will respond to that fear of the Council of State, if you take it seriously? Does Mr Ganzevoort not agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u149	It is not for nothing that this Chamber has once again asked the Council of State whether this is the route with which it might be possible. The Council of State has said once again: no, it is not. Mr Bruijn can give it a very nice exegesis and ask whether it is not secured by regulating the powers of the Committee on Identity. The answer to that is no. That is not a guarantee, because an identity committee is not the competent authority. That means that, in any case, even with a dispute settlement, you always get into trouble with the tension that, because it is a major state influence, a public authority cannot ultimately be the competent authority for that particular education. There's the jumping point. So it is not about the philosophical identity as such, but it is about the special status. It is therefore a question of legal form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u150	I referred to the second opinion of the Council of State, on which we could ask the government to define more precisely the powers of the Committee on Identity, as the Education Council also recommends. I am therefore referring to the extension of the second opinion of the Council of State, not the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u151	Even so, the identity committee will never become the competent authority. There's the jumping point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u152	I understand the GroenLinks spokesperson. He sees the problem, but he also says that this is contrary to the Constitution and that we must first amend the Constitution. I have two questions for Mr Ganzevoort. Such a constitutional change lasts at least eight years. Do you realize that an entire generation of schoolchildren, groups 1 to 8, are still in trouble in the shrinkage region, and how are you going to solve that? If you are in favour of a constitutional change, can I expect you to come forward with a motion on this matter in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u153	I assume the questions are for me and not for you, Mr. President. I'll answer them anyway. I have already asked the Secretary of State about the need for such a constitutional change. I don't know if that requires a motion, but maybe we'll share it. I think it is an important debate. You are talking about the drama of generations of schoolchildren that we could not help with. The big problem, in my view, is that the Secretary of State is burdening us with a proposal that should solve an essential problem, but it does so in an unconstitutional way. You'll have to excuse me. Again, we are not here to achieve good; we are here to ward off evil. An unconstitutional solution to the problem is still an evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u154	Then I am very surprised that Mr Ganzevoort does not come forward with a motion or comes forward with an initiative himself. If he believes that there is an unconstitutional solution to a problem here, he should have been so chic as to propose the right method. He doesn't, and I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u155	I warmly welcome Mrs Gerkens' surprise. I don't understand where it came from at all. I said that the debate on the constitutional change is important. I've asked the Secretary of State if he feels the same way. As far as I'm concerned, we're continuing it. The bill now before us is a bill that has to solve a problem and does it in the wrong way. That's what it's about. If the Secretary of State comes up with a better proposal, heartfeltly. But that's his problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u156	Mr Ten Hoeve has another question, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u157	I would like to ask one short question, Mr President. Does Mr Ganzevoort agree with me that if only that reference to the foundation in Article 48 of the bill had disappeared, it would be an excellent bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u158	I think that Mr Ten Hoeve gives a very nice summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the first term? I see that is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 7:30 p.m. before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u160	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the substance of the bill, I would like to express my thanks to the members of the Chamber for the thorough way in which we discuss and deal with this bill. We are doing this in plenary today, but we have also spoken in writing a number of times before. And we had an oral discussion on this earlier last month. Even then, I stressed the importance of this conversation. The legislative proposal is touching on the basic principles of our education system. That's what it turns out to be today. It is even at the heart of our education system, namely Article 23 of the Constitution on freedom of education. This is also the focus of the vast majority of the debate. Does it fit into those frames? That is not, as Mr Schalk then says, a well-naïve battle or game. No, it is ultimately up to all of us, the legislators, to answer the question as to whether this is compatible with that Constitution. A number of times we have had an exchange of views on the cooperation school. I hope that I have already clarified how I view the relationship of this bill with the Constitution, as I did earlier in the oral consultation and in the written answer to the questions. I will look at this in more detail later. But this bill on the cooperation school is also a result in practice. It is an outcome for schools in areas with declining numbers of pupils, areas affected by shrinkage. It is a result in cores where pupils are no longer sufficient to maintain both a public and a special school. In such areas, therefore, the creation of a school of cooperation will ultimately ensure that a strong school remains, while preserving diversity. Mrs. Gerkens asked for that. I see her looking at me carefully now. She asked whether parents now retain the right to choose. Or is that even reinforced? In any case, I see that in areas where this diversity, and this choice of parents, is under pressure, where if we do nothing, one or the other, for public education or special education, we will soon be able to maintain that choice for parents. I think that is a great asset in practice. The cooperation school meets the needs of parents with different backgrounds. However, we now see that legislation and practice are rubbing together. Since the introduction of the current law, no new school of cooperation has been set up, I say to Mr Bruijn, who asked a question about it. This has to do with the strict requirements of the current law at the cooperation school. This new bill will change that. I shall look at this in more detail later. I would like to make my contribution on the basis of actually four major questions on the table. The first is the Constitution and its interpretation. The second question is what about the continuity criterion, i.e. the idea of the school of cooperation as an exception. The third question concerns the cooperation school and the administrative suspension. What are the possibilities of placing this not only under a special but also under a public administration? I will then conclude with a number of practical consequences of this bill. So what's it gonna look like later? How do schools handle this? I'll start with the Constitution. The relationship between the historical grammar and teleological approach of Article 23 may deserve some attention. I saw that in the last written procedure. It also emerged a number of times in the first term of the Chamber. Of these two methods of interpretation, the historical grammar focuses mainly on the text and purpose of the constitutionalist, while the teleological approach focuses more on the social purpose and meaning for society. It is now the case that the methods of law interpretation are mainly a tool for judges to arrive at a decision on the basis of the law in a concrete case. If, in a particular case, the law does not directly lead to a clear outcome, interpretation is the possibility of reaching a verdict. Now it is true that the different interpretation methods complement each other in principle and therefore do not have to exclude each other. In the case of the interpretation of the Constitution by us, the different methods of interpretation can also be used by the legislator. This was also discussed in 2006, during the examination of the amendment of Article 23 (4) of the Constitution. At that time it was agreed that "the historical grammar interpretation is leading the educational legislator, but also that this does not mean that other interpretation methods can no longer play a role." That is literally the quote of the Minister of the Interior during the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u161	I got it right here. It also says: "The scope for manoeuvre available to the legislator in interpreting Article 23 of the Constitution is always limited by the history and interpretation given to it by the constitutionalist." That's a quote, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u162	Exactly, but it is indicated that space is limited. That is not to say that there is no room for the legislator. So that offers a certain space. Mrs De Vries-Leggedoor herself quoted a quote from my predecessor, Marja van Bijsterveldt, on how to explain that. I would just like to use the strict distinction between the legislator and the constitutionalist. Mrs De Vries-Leggeby quoted my predecessor in the debate on the law in 2011. I refer back to the authentic statement made by the Minister of the Interior during the examination of the Constitution itself. I think we should take that back and not Van Bijsterveldt's statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u163	That which I just quoted was from then Minister Thom de Graaf during the examination of the constitutional review, involving the trial of law. I think it's the same as what you're talking about. It is only here that it is clear that the legislator's margin of discretion in the interpretation of Article 23 of the Constitution is always limited by the history and interpretation given by the constitutionalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u164	We do not disagree on this. I have a similar quote. That is not to say that there is no room for the legislator anymore, but that space is limited in the law. So it's not like there's no room at all. You just quoted a quote from Marja van Bijsterveldt in your first term, but that was not from the debate on the amendment of the Constitution. That was from another debate, namely from the legal treatment in 2011. This concerns not the constitutionalist, but the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u165	To finish the quote: "As the intention of the constitutionalist is clearer, the legislator is less free to give a different interpretation than the constitutionalist intended." If the constitutionalist was clearer, namely that a public administration cannot be the designer for a cooperation school, the legislator, this secretary of state, is less free to give it a different interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u166	That is the subject that has been raised, and I shall be standing still in detail in the near future. However, I must also note that this issue has been given very little attention during the constitutional process. At that time it was particularly about the continuity criterion, of which I have the impression that this legislative proposal is not contrary either. In the written procedure, I indicated a number of times that the interpretation has not only a historical grammar but also a teleological perspective. That is an additional argument to achieve the proposed legislative amendment. Why? Because in 2006, when the Constitution was being amended, the Constitution had the aim of opening up cooperation schools, while we have to establish that this objective has not been achieved in practice. Since the law came into force in 2011, no space has been created that has subsequently been used in practice. That raises the question of whether we should go a step further there. I come to the first of the two main points discussed: the cooperation school as an exception. The aim of the legislative proposal is to facilitate the regime of cooperation schools within the framework of the Constitution. We simply see that the continuity criterion currently in force is too strict in practice. In particular, in municipalities with a low standard of abolition, the formation of a school of cooperation is not really an option in practice. Mr Ten Hoeve asked what the explanation was for that. In the sparsely populated areas in particular, the lifting standard is very low: at the lowest 23. Most schools dealing with falling numbers of pupils close their doors before reaching that legal minimum. They're gonna think about their future if they get smaller than 100. Then they're gonna think about whether they should work together or merge. We see that this criterion is too strict in practice. Mr Schalk asked about the reason why he wanted to make a concession here to the Council of State. The Council of State also pointed out that the exception would apply, in particular, to sparsely populated areas. The head that we had initially put on it would perhaps have given some room for manoeuvre in the sparsely populated areas. The question was whether this would not allow too much space for the big cities, where the lifting standard is usually around 200. That is why we have said that, as the lifting standard is higher, the head should be smaller. Hence the complex formula which, in my view, does justice to the idea that it should be a solution, in particular, for schools whose continuity is at stake. Most informal cooperation schools have arisen in these municipalities. But to be perfectly honest, an informal cooperation school is formally a public or a special school, one of the two. For parents, teachers and other stakeholders, such a structure does not guarantee in the long term that the school will survive as a cooperative school. A number of members also mentioned this in their speech. Informal cooperation schools have very little legal certainty for those involved. Therefore, I think it would be better to take formal care of it properly. To be honest, I am somewhat surprised that some of the parties that are rather critical of this bill have so much enthusiasm for informal collaborations and informal cooperation schools. I heard this, among other things, in the speech of the CDA, the SGP and the Christian Union. In practice, public education says that it also teaches Catholic or Christian education, without being formally properly regulated. About half of the cases are under public administration. Mr Bruijn asked for that. Informal cooperation schools often have an identity committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u167	I don't really understand. According to the Secretary of State, the problem at informal cooperation schools is that one cannot guarantee that a certain identity can be continued in the long term. But those two school boards make arrangements about that, don't they? In a situation of informal cooperation, will they be very keen on this point? Isn't the danger the Secretary of State's report poses at the formal school of cooperation he proposes? In this respect, the continuity of special education can also be put under pressure. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u168	In an informal cooperation school, two schools must eventually merge, but their formal regulation, for example in statutes, is something that is not taking place now or at least not regulated by law. So there's no way to fall back on it. A school that presents itself as a public-protestant cooperation school is in fact a Protestant-Christian elementary school or a public school on paper. If there is to be a new director or if the wind blows from a different angle, then such a school may decide to remove the Protestant-Christian or public part, without discussing it with parents or teachers. I would prefer it to be properly and formally arranged, because then teachers and parents can fall back on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u169	But also in a situation of informal cooperation things are being arranged. What the Secretary of State intends to do with the formal school of cooperation is also happening in the informal situation. The same concerns are also being taken into account. I don't understand the argument. The Secretary of State says that the problem with informal cooperation is that in the long run the character that one wants can no longer be guaranteed. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u170	Of course, such an informal cooperation school also regulates things. Many informal cooperation schools, for example, have identity committees, which have inspired us on this bill. Mr Kuiper mentioned something interesting in his speech. He said, "See what comes from below." I have the impression that he is quite enthusiastic about informal cooperation schools. He said at some point: perhaps we should consider whether we should settle something in law for informal cooperation schools. That's almost a plea to agree to this bill. What this bill does is what we see happening, but which does not actually provide legal certainty for parents and teachers, provided with a legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u171	Of course you will want to take care of that at some point, but I said: let the practice take its course, you come too early in a way; it would not have to be in the way you are proposing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u172	On the contrary, I think that this bill is in line with the practice that we see emerging. I'm going to come back to the question of whether we're coloring within the lines. My answer to that question in relation to the continuity criterion is a full yes. The Constitutionalist's intention is that the school of cooperation should and should remain an exception in our dual system, and that it should only be created by merger under certain circumstances. Mr Bruijn asked me to reflect on the original 1995 bill, which at that time ran counter to the Constitution. That bill did not pass, but that also went many times further. That also made it possible to set up cooperation schools, from the very beginning. Following the constitutional change, the Constitutionalist deliberately chose to consider the school of cooperation as an exception for the sake of maintaining the dual system. We are still doing the same with this bill. It does not become a regular variant; it remains an exception. At the same time, we must look at the 2011 law, which also tried to create an exception. That exception, that mouse hole, was so small that there really was no mouse fit through. That bill was intended to make something possible, but we must note that in practice it is a dead letter. There is no school that made use of that exception that was created at the time. I think we should do something about that discrepancy. That means a slight relaxation, without making it the rule. It is therefore still an exception, but a slightly wider exception than that of the current law. The question then is, of course, what is an exception and when something is the rule. I notice that there are several things that are mixed up. Theoretically, a third of the schools could become a school of cooperation with this bill, I say in the direction of Mr Kuiper. He's right about that. Under the current law that is 17%, but in practice zero schools use it. That may not be so crazy either, because there are many other ways of working together. It is much easier for a public school to merge with a public school or for a special school to merge with a special school. Some schools are getting smaller, but they attach great importance to their own pure identity and choose not to merge at all. If we want to establish whether something is an exception, should we look at the schools that are theoretically eligible or at the schools that actually do it in practice? I think we should choose the last line much more. We note that 17% could do it now, but it is not happening. If we stretch it to about 30% later, it will be more than zero as it is now, but then only a few dozen will still use it, that is my estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u173	Could it also be that public schools will be much less likely to take the route of cooperation school, because public education is already guaranteed anyway? So it will only become an important question in the case of a special school moving towards abolition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u174	Practice doesn't prove that. Given the number of informal cooperation schools that have arisen, we estimate that this is about fifty-fifty. That's what we see in practice. I shall come back to this later when I look more closely at the administrative design of things. We see in practice that schools often look a little further ahead and think about what the overall planning of schools in an area looks like. Then they sit down and make agreements: if these schools merge, you take this school under your wing, because then I'll take another school under the wings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u175	I think fifty-fifty makes sense, because it's only gonna be a collaboration school if you put a public and a special one together. It can't be more than fifty-fifty. The question is, of course, what direction has emerged from the question of cooperation school. Did it come from public education? Is that what empirical research has been done? Or should we just take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u176	I don't know any empirical research being done on that. Apart from the fact that a cooperation school always has the two blood groups in it, we see that in the way they are administratively hung, I speak about informal cooperation schools, about half of which are under special administration and the other half under public administration. So this is happening in the informal way that it is now regulated. When we talk about exceptions, we should not just look at where the possibilities are. The Council of State's assessment on this point is really too tight for me. The Council is talking about a definition and an increase from 17% to 21%. If you reach 17% of zero, you can ask yourself whether direction 21% really offers the space that that allows for a number of schools that would like to work together. I believe that the current enlargement will lead to dozens of cooperation schools being created. But on the 6,000, 7,000 schools we have in the Netherlands, I still think that is a very small exception. In my view, this fulfils the criterion which the constitutionalist considered so important at the time. Mr Pijlman asked why we do not make a full or a regular variant of it. The simple answer is: because I like to stay within the space that the constitutionalist has determined. Mr Pijlman really wants to go a step further, but that would require an amendment to Article 23. I come to the other point: the cooperation school under a public administration. If we fall back on what the constitutionalist said about this in both 1917 and 2006, then we have to note that it has been much less pronounced about it. In addition to the dominant influence of public authorities on public education, equivalence between public and special education is an important benchmark within the interpretation of the Constitution. Since the first legislative proposal in the 1990s, the aim of a law of the cooperation school has been to provide public and special education with the same opportunities for cooperation. This point was also explicitly raised in the 2006 Constitutional Amendment. In my opinion, the proposed scheme for the cooperation school under a public administration fits within the intention of the constitutionalist. In practice, I see the need for exchanges, for example where there are several cooperation schools in a particular area, where both the public and the special administration could maintain schools. I was just talking about that. If public administration is limited in this exchange, this would mean that the share of schools under public administration would decrease more. Such a distinction, in the opinion of the government, is not fair and, in my opinion, has not been the intention of the constitutionalist either. The tensions experienced by the Council of State at a cooperation school under public administration, I have, of course, read it all well and I have tried to follow it. In my view, this is inherent in the concept of the school of cooperation, namely the combination of the essential features of public education with special education. The Constitutionalist also discussed this for a long time, but finally, in 2006, made the school of cooperation possible as an exception. The school of cooperation can never be completely pure in this sense, because the school of cooperation will never be entirely public or completely special. There will always have to be a balance between how different interests are dealt with and how they should be weighed. That is also the case now. This applies equally to a school of cooperation under a special administration, which should guarantee the essential features of public education while at the same time giving room for the shaping of the special identity. The government believes that two schoolbodies who, at a time of imminent abolition, choose to form a school of cooperation will express and fulfil the responsibilities for these choices among themselves and that they will make good agreements among themselves, for example in statutes, in parts where possible. Mr Pijlman asked about the formal and fundamental point, because he referred to a previous bill from 1993, which made it possible to extend a public school with a direction. That's one of the things we're falling back on right now. At the time, this was not seen as contrary to the Constitution either. If you translate that into the current situation, I believe that the bill we are now presenting to the Chamber is in line with the construction that would be chosen at the time. That leads me to conclude that this is not contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Ganzevoort asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u177	At the risk of my reply coming anyway: the Secretary of State believes that it is appropriate, but on this very point we have received the signal not only from the Council of State but also from the NCAR: on all fronts, in short, we have received the signal that this is not possible to unite. How does the Secretary of State assess that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u178	I have to say that. I can't deny it either. At the same time, of course, we did not go ice over one night either. This is what we have done within my ministry with all education lawyers, including the Ministry of the Interior and Constitutional Affairs, have been involved to fully implement and follow that reasoning. I just have a strong impression of this, but that too is guessing that many opinions still fall back on the old design, as there is now in the current legislative proposal. It is not at school level, as we are proposing here, but at the level of the administration, that the co-operation school and its monitoring are put in place. Incompatibility may be stronger in this respect than in the way we propose it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u179	I believe that the Secretary of State is too easy to get rid of the quality and seriousness of the opinions of the Council of State, which he has asked for his opinion and which is the official adviser to the government and the Chamber. My important question is this: does the Secretary of State not ignore the essential point of asymmetry, given by definition, in terms of the difference between special and public education, which is one of his main arguments? You can never arrange that equally, because that is an asymmetry embedded in the system that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u180	I see that there are differences between special and public education, in essence. To my great regret, the Council of State does not say so much about this. I have said this again in my response to the information that the Chamber has requested. At a number of times, also recently in 2006, the Constitutionalist had the intention and also expressed the view that the possibilities for cooperation between special and public education should not be different. Both of them should have the opportunity to come to a cooperation school. I only note that this is not the case under the current law. With the proposal I am putting forward here, I am trying to take some of the asymmetry out of it. I do not want to say that special and public education do not differ. But the question is whether you should limit public education in this way of working together or whether you should, the other way around, give special education in that sense a preferential position as the sole guardian of the cooperative school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u181	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u182	I believe that these words give away exactly where the problem lies, namely the position of preference and the like. It's not about that. It's about how to keep the government at bay in a good way. The Constitutionalist explicitly changed this last time and ensured that public education can also be given outside a public school. He has not explicitly ruled that special education can also be arranged within a public school. That's an asymmetry. It's in the system and will stay in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u183	I can't literally trace that asymmetry back to the text of the Constitution or the consideration of the 2006 constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u184	Indeed, I had a tendency to correctly interpret the text of the Constitution, which expressly states that public education can be given outside public schools, as: this means that there is nothing against taking public education out of the structure of public education. That's what it says. Public education can be given outside the public school. This more supports the idea that the cooperation school should be placed elsewhere and not, first of all, that it should be part of the structure of public education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u185	With all due respect, that's a derivative interpretation. This subject was not so literal and explicitly addressed in the constitutional amendment. I think there are just as good arguments for this, also on the basis of that treatment, that the constitutionalist has not at all sought to give special education a preferential position. De facto, that is the practice that has arisen which I find undesirable. I would like to correct this for both practical and fundamental reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u186	That asymmetry continues to Because, of course, both forms are equal. They are both funded and have the same legal system and the same soundness and quality requirements. That's all equal. It is only in public education that public influence prevails. It is lacking in special education. That asymmetry continues to exist. I think Mr Ten Hoeve is right when he says that the route will then be through special education. I agree with what Mr Ganzevoort says, namely that a variety of experts say that this is decisive. The quadrature of the circle: what the Secretary of State proposes is not compatible with what the Constitution wants on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u187	I do not entirely agree with that. If you go back to the cooperation school, you will see that tensions arise in many parts of the combination of public education and special education. It is about neutrality versus identity in particular education. It is also about the prevailing public influence versus the private organisation of special education. This applies to the school of cooperation which is housed in a special administration, but mirrorally so is a school of cooperation which is housed in a public administration. You'll always have certain tensions. The predominant public influence relates only to public education, as is also laid down by law. I can very well imagine that the constitution of a cooperation school includes in its statutes that the dominant influence within the cooperation school extends to the public part of education and not to the special part. The Board is responsible for ensuring that the public and the special character is adequately shaped. The identity committee can ensure that and ensure that at school level. He advises here asked and unsolicited about it. The statutes must also agree on the way in which disputes are settled if they arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u188	And then I am so curious whether the Secretary of State will also explain what that can mean for the legal or legal aspects that the identity committee ultimately has no authority over, because then the public administration will again be the guardian of authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u189	I do not see the immediate emergence of huge conflicts there. This has to do with the fact that if two schools choose to become a cooperation school, they are usually schools that are willing to do a little bit of water with regard to their own identity, to be more flexible themselves and to see that there are sometimes some tensions in a cooperation school. I can very well imagine that the legal status of staff is an issue at a purely reformative or reformed school, which also plays a very strong role in the assumption policy, but the question is whether the soup is also being eaten so hot at a cooperation school, which already chooses that the school is not just about the special identity, but also about a public part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u190	No, but as an example, I'm referring to the anthroposophical school's designation of staff. The government must then give an opinion on the philosophy of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u191	No, the government will then see if anyone is fit to teach at such a school with both a public and a special part. Then I come to a number of practical aspects. The legal guarantees for public and special education are no longer designed at the level of government, as currently laid down in the law, but from now on at school level. The statutory identity committee at school level is the key to shaping the particular identity and public character of the school concerned. As has already been said, those responsible for the cooperation school can make good agreements on where it is possible to interfere between the public and special domain, for example in statutes. In my opinion, the Constitution does not stand in the way of this. Mr Bruijn asked exactly what powers such a committee has. How do you guarantee the composition and control of such an identity committee? Actually, the law leaves a lot of room for that. A number of issues are made mandatory, such as the composition and powers of the committee. As far as the composition is concerned, the legislative proposal requires that there should be a balanced distribution between public and special, in order to ensure equivalence. It is up to the school board and the identity committee to determine the powers together. So it is more of a formal requirement than a substantive requirement, just as it is to give room for local consultation between the two schools if they go together. How does that work in practice? There's something we can fall back on. This form is often used in informal cooperation schools and seems to work well there. Mr Bruijn asked whether we should not continue to colour this or work it out. Of course, the bill doesn't leave room for nothing. If the House supports the proposal that Mr Bruijn was talking about, namely to work with hand-picking, and so there is a majority in favour of it, I shall be able to do so. Once again, every school is free to deviate from it. A hand-out is not a heavy law and regulation, but rather a suggestion for how to do it in practice. Finally, I will come to a few things. Mr Ten Hoeve asked if we could provide a solution for the subsidiary offices. Basically, you can't say that a part of a school should be merged with another school. That's not what this bill is about. That will require a school as a whole to go together. How one then subdivides it is up to practice. Mr Bruijn and Mrs Sent asked for the evaluation. I can promise that the evaluation will also come to the First Chamber. To Mrs Sent, I say that we will therefore look at some of the measures that we will take. This is not the only thing we do to cope with shrinkage and to offer schools opportunities, but it is part of a whole arsenal of possibilities. I am quite prepared to broaden the scope of the evaluation in this respect. Then all the way to the end. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Pijlman both challenged me: should we not have a much more fundamental debate on Article 23? Quite frankly, I am very reluctant to do so. That is not only because of the outgoing state of the current cabinet, but also because I think that Article 23, if you really look closely at it, offers a lot of opportunities. In my view, it offers the opportunity to adopt the bill we are talking about today, to establish cooperation schools that can be carried out under both public and special governance. The same applies to the establishment of schools on a more pedagogical basis, I say to Mr Pijlman. Article 23 does not provide that special education must necessarily be organised along the lines of the barrier. It is about the direction of schools, but the way in which we set it up in lower laws and regulations has not been poured into concrete as far as I am concerned. So we could have a broader discussion on this too, but in my view it can also be done within the current framework of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u192	I think it is rather unpleasant: if you really look at Article 23, there can be much more. In doing so, the Secretary of State suggests that I am not looking closely at Article 23 and I find that annoying. I think it is about the history, the intention and the text of Article 23 and the possibilities. A number of things are possible, but there is also a limit to them. That limit is given. That is an extensive debate, and I think that the Secretary of State is getting rid of it easily by saying: I see it differently. That limit is given by the intention and interpretation of the constitutionalist. There are limits to that. The moment you stretch those boundaries out like a rubber edge, you put all kinds of things in there, and it's just a question of whether they fit in, and then you say that if you look closely you can do it all, then I think that's a false suggestion. It is precisely the question of whether the rubber edge of the Secretary of State leaves room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u193	Mr Pijlman then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u194	Yeah, that's it. I largely agree with what has just been said. On the contrary, this debate shows that there are very different views about these borders very quickly. The question was whether you should think more fundamentally about a more modern Article 23. Moreover, I asked the Secretary of State how he oversees that principle which is also entrusted to the government, namely whether there is sufficient public education. Then I am again in the contours of Article 23, which we would like to give a new meaning to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u195	If it has been deduced from what I have said that Members of this Chamber have not looked carefully at Rule 23, then I would like to remove it immediately. I wanted to point out that the Constitution leaves room for me to do a number of things. This applies not only to this legislative proposal but also, for example, to Mr Pijlman's wider discussion of the possibility of setting up new schools, and not to the dominant philosophical directions, as set out in the sectoral laws, read ecclesiastical movements; it is best to broaden this without getting to the foundations of Article 23. Of course, the Chamber or a forthcoming cabinet is always free to question more the frameworks and the principles of Article 23, in the sense of whether there should be a distinction between public and special et cetera at all. I wouldn't be in favour of it. I think that Article 23 is something that is very typical of the Dutch education system but has also brought us an incredible amount. That's what I'm saying as a liberal. There is a lot to choose for parents and students, much more than in many other countries. We reward private initiative by making it possible, in addition to public schools, to provide space for private schools and to finance them equally. So there can be much within the Constitution and this bill in terms of more room for new schools. Then it is up to all of you to say: we want to consider the Constitution more fundamentally. I have less need of that myself. Mr Pijlman asked how we guarded the share of public education. The share of public education hasn't changed that much in the last ten years. It has remained fairly stable around 30%, to which Mr Pijlman referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u196	That's right. The number of Protestant-Christian and Catholic school boards also corresponds to that 30%. The question is, of course, whether you should not check the identity of schools against the social needs. The government's mission when it comes to public schools is to do so. My question is how does the Secretary of State do that, because I have never heard anything about how he tests whether there is sufficient public education among the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u197	Then we mainly look at the numbers of entries. The law provides guarantees for public schools under the lifting standard in order to maintain them. So you can say: there is little enthusiasm among parents and students to sign up for that public education and yet we maintain it, especially where travel distances are getting larger. Furthermore, as part of the preparation of a completely different legislative proposal, a survey was carried out, or a survey analysis, in which we asked parents and students if they were satisfied with the identity of their school. Then we see that about 80% recognise themselves very much in the identity of the school where the child is registered. Is there always a group that feels less at home? I believe that we should give more room for this, but this discussion is about another bill, which has not yet been submitted to the Chambers. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u198	Thank you. I've been asked for a short five-minute suspension. I hope everyone gets back in time after the suspension, because we're running out of time today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u199	We will continue to deal with the bill law together stronger through simplification cooperation school. We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I call Mrs De Vries-Legge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u200	Mr. Chairman. We are not concerned today with the question of whether we understand the importance of the merger or the cooperation of schools in areas where they are under pressure. We recognise that importance. That's no problem at all. For us, the question is how you deal with the Constitution. In our firm conviction and on the basis of what we have now seen, there is conflict with the Constitution. The answers of the Secretary of State did not convince us either. If you believe that there is a contradiction with the Constitution and that the limit you believe in the Constitution is really the limit within which you should stay, then in my opinion there is an arbitrator in the Council of State. That's our advisory body. The Council of State has said twice that this bill is contrary to the Constitution, even in the revised version approved by the House of Representatives. This means, in my view, that special education cannot at present fall under the competent authority of public education. I don't want to say that this will never happen, but right now, it can't. That would mean changing the Constitution. Mr Bruijn said: but do we have an identity committee? Then I think: yes, there is, but at that time it is not the competent authority of that school. We find such a free interpretation of the Constitution undesirable. This means that we do not see any other possibility, and I say this with a little heartache, rather than voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u201	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. Not for all the answers in the sense that I agreed with everything, but I'm sure he already understood that. The Secretary of State makes a artificial distinction, as far as I am concerned, between the level of government and the level of school. There are a lot of words devoted to the equality or equality of schools, but no matter how you turn or turn it, special education and public education are not the same. The Constitution marks the differences. The freedom of direction of special education is there for special education, and not for public education. The guarantee function in Article 23 (4) is there for public education, but not for special education. In short, you cannot enforce that equality and you cannot argue that it should be completely equal in this case, because both forms of education cannot be equated. That's what you see in this bill. We pretend that public education would be disadvantaged if a cooperation school were not to be covered by that public administration, but there is a guarantee function for that public administration. And there is no guarantee function for special education. I have one more question. If the law is passed, will the Secretary of State report to this Chamber how many schools will use it in the next one and a half to two years, with the distinction whether it is covered by a public administration or public administration foundation or by a special administration? I really need to say something positive, too. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for the firm manner in which he speaks of his reluctance to engage in a new debate on Article 23. Of course, I'll put something right back in front of that. We must also be very careful not to get into a kind of flexibilisation of the Constitution, where we say that Article 23 is so spacious; we can support anything and anything else. That is what I call a flexibilisation of the Constitution. I wouldn't want that. I remain of the opinion that many renowned institutions and individuals are right when they say that this bill is contrary to the Constitution. That also means that my group will be voting against this bill at the end of this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u202	So 100 years after the pacification it is nice to see that the confessions and the liberals are once again in agreement on this point, namely not to question Article 23. My question to Mr Schalk is whether this does not leave a fundamental question, where we can no longer ignore it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u203	That is the question, of course, but you will find that, at the moment the Secretary of State sees space, there is already a huge discrepancy in this Chamber. I also think we should note that we have a great deal of blessings, and those are my words of Article 23 as it is now. In my opinion, Mr Ganzevoort also mentioned this in his speech. If we are going to grind and sand it, then I am very much afraid that in terms of the strength of Article 23, namely the width of the school palette, where beautiful citizens are being prepared for the future, we are actually going to lose more than we are going to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u204	You concluded with a fine sentence, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u205	Mr. Chairman. For example, a debate on cooperation schools almost became a debate on Article 23 of the Constitution. By the way, there are many parts to that article. One of these components is the freedom of choice of education. That is, in my view, the most important part. My group believes that this, as it is now, is at odds with the freedom of education. That was also confirmed by the Secretary of State. This freedom of choice no longer exists in all municipalities and regions. This bill is trying to make that right. In doing so, this amendment does more justice to that part of the Constitution. For my group, it is also important that this is done freely. This change of law offers more possibilities than there are now, but does not force it to do so. The choice thus remains with the parents and with the teachers. However, tonight's debate shows that we need to think hard about modernising Article 23. We were also talking today about modernising the letter secret. We should consider whether Article 23 is still a sustainable article. Shouldn't we look at that differently? The question remains whether this is the case. We didn't figure that out tonight. I would therefore like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Gerkens, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Pijlman and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the debate on the school of cooperation and urgent issues in the field of education shows that Article 23 of the Constitution is in need of rethinking;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into the fundamental social debate on the future stability of the fundamental protection of the freedom of education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34512-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u206	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his clear answer. The cooperation schools as we now know have grown in practice and are also appreciated. The amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 23 of the Constitution in 2006 and the Sectoral Act in 2011 made this possible. What we are actually doing is formalising what has grown informally and what we intended to have already existed. By doing so, you could argue that we give more guarantees to, for example, special education under public administration than is currently possible in the informal setting. I say to the Christian parties: you should appreciate that too. We are broadening the possibilities a little, but it remains an exception within our dual system. There's gonna be guarantees, too. I asked the cabinet why it doesn't make it a full version. Then the Secretary of State replied: I do not, because then I am acting contrary to Rule 23. That is also true, with which it has been said again that the discussion about that space is also gradual. We believe that this is part of the amendment to the 2006 Constitution. Article 23 and its translation into our society have always been evolving. We have talked a lot about the dominant and decisive role of the government in public school. At the same time, we have to ask ourselves whether this dominant role is still present when public education is largely governed by foundations. That was a huge breakthrough in the dual system. Sometimes it seems like we are ignoring that. I was not so convinced by the answer given by the Secretary of State to my question as to how he oversees the principle that there should be sufficient public education. Yeah, we've done a survey before. I myself quoted a study from 2016, "God in the Netherlands," where you could give a different translation. It's not about D66 starting a new school fight. We greatly appreciate everyone in the school who works on good education from his own identity and conviction. At the same time, we believe that it would be a good idea not to regard the foundation identity as frozen, but to check it now and then against reality, where the will of parents should be central. We believe that at the time this was the intention of the education process. That is why we will support the motion that has just been tabled. It is not about knowing the results, but it would be good, with everyone's own input and with all that diversity, to review this article again for its future resilience. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply and for the commitment to send the evaluation to this Chamber as well. Perhaps it is an idea to include the number of schools using the new space, as requested by Mr Schalk. Maybe that can be taken in one go. We have listened carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State and have become convinced that, as the Advisory Section of the Council of State indicated, the purpose of the law can be achieved by adjusting the continuity criterion. In the end, they did not go as far as the Council would have liked, but that is a gradual difference and it cannot be maintained that such a small difference would still lead to a conflict with Article 23. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is no reason to question Article 23 itself in connection with this legislative proposal at all. The second point that was raised was that suspension under the public administration. The Education Council stated that it did not object to that identity committee, but advised it to give sufficient clarity on the position and role of that committee in order to ensure clear relations with the competent authority, the school management, the participation board and, where appropriate, the supervisory board, and to provide sufficient safeguards for control. This was a question of powers and control, but nowhere in the Constitution does it say that powers and control cannot be delegated. There's no record of that in the Constitution. So if sufficient powers and control of the monitoring of the identity of a school are delegated to the identity committee, then both the concern of the Council of State and the advice of the Education Council are addressed. That is why we have prepared a motion calling for the PO Council and the VO Council to develop a hand-out to help the schools in one direction, without affecting the freedom of that school to make use of it or not. The President shall: Mr Bruijn, Mr Sent, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr De Grave, Mr Klip-Martin and Mr Pijlman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in setting up the cooperation school, those concerned are enabled to establish statutory agreements on the essential features of public and special education;]] [[Whereas it is then not the competent authority but representatives of, for example, parents and teachers at the school itself who, as a statutory identity committee, shape and monitor the public character and the special identity;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the joint preparation by the PO-Council and the VO-Council of a hand-out to be used by those involved in the formation of the cooperation school in order to define in a careful manner the issues relating to the special and public domain of the cooperation school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34512-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u209	Mr Schalk has another question for you, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u210	Does not Mr Bruijn put the ball in front of an identity committee instead of the legislator? I mean not only with the identity committee, but with the PO Council, the VO Council, i.e. with the field, rather than with the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u211	My group follows the opinion of the Education Council in that the development of the phenomenon of identity committee is indeed laid down in the field itself. Not with the legislator, but with the field itself. The schools have the freedom to determine which powers are delegated in a particular school to that committee. That's determined by school. However, you can give a handshake of a statutory workable way in which it could be done. This responds to the Education Council's call for this hand-out to be arranged as well. At the same time, the concern of the Council of State, which is expressed in the content of the opinion, is addressed as to the place of responsibility for monitoring the identity of the school, which should be given as much powers as possible to the identity committee and not to the public administration. This also responds to the objections raised by Mr Schalk's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u212	That brings Mr Schalk back to a new interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u213	I do not accept the latter, because I do not believe that I have argued for an identity committee that could solve problems and I certainly do not want to place responsibility for this elsewhere than with the legislator. Then a PO-Council or a VO-Council can change it so to speak every year. That's what we should try to avoid, would be my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u214	I'm trying to understand the scope of this motion. In the end, it is a question of delegation of the competent authority to the identity committee. It is in the motion on the essential characteristics of special education. These have traditionally been matters such as the organisation of education, the choice of school materials, the appointment of employees and some of those things. Is that what Mr Bruijn would like to delegate to an identity committee through this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u215	No, this motion doesn't delegate. This motion calls for the field to be given a hand-out that a school could use if it so wishes to answer the question of where it lays down what powers within the school, in such a way that the statutory objective of the school's identity, for example the public or special school covered by that foundation, is monitored. This also responds precisely to the concern that has been expressed here earlier: is that identity sufficiently guarded? That is the concern of the Council of State and this is the opinion of the Education Council. That is why we are making this appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u216	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u217	That is the operative part, and I understand that, but the second consideration concerns the competent authority and the identity committee and therefore the delegation of those tasks. I'm trying to figure out what these tasks are. Classic are the tasks I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u218	The Education Council has appointed this point. The motion concerns the relationship between that committee and the competent authority, on the one hand, the school management, the participation council and any supervisory board, on the other. Where are the powers? This serves to ensure control of the identity of each school covered by that foundation. This is then to be added to the decentralised consultation. Moreover, the co-determination council must agree at all before such a school is set up. In addition, there is a national Disputes Commission to which any disputes may be referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u219	I'm trying to be brief. Mr Bruijn says that the motion meets the concerns of the Council of State, among others, but he did not talk about guaranteeing its special character. He mentioned the fact that, as a public education, you cannot be the competent authority of special education. Mr Bruijn says that by delegateing certain powers to the Committee on Identity, you are responding to the objections. Then the competent authority is not the competent authority of public education. Then the competent authority of the cooperation school would be the identity committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u220	No, a competent authority is always able to delegate powers and also has that freedom. That is exactly the essence of the figure of the Identity Committee, which the Education Council endorses. This responds to the concerns of the Council of State, which deal with the question of where the powers lie. Then place the powers where they should be in order to protect the identity of the school as closely as possible. We've all shared that last concern here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u221	Finally, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u222	No, the criticism was about the powers: where are the powers? If the competent authority delegates a power to an identity committee or another lower level, then that power lies there at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u223	Very briefly, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u224	That is very well-reasoned, but in the end the competent authority of public education in the cooperation school remains the competent authority of special education, also in Mr Bruijn's model.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u225	Along that line of reasoning you could even claim that the Minister is the competent authority. There's always a higher authority. Eventually, it's us here. It's about where the school's identity is best guarded. That's at the level of the school itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u226	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers and for the debate. It is clear that my group is not convinced that legislation is needed in this way and in this form. There are too many questions. At the same time, cooperation schools are being created; this practice is just there. We could look a little more closely at what exactly the questions and needs are there. For us, the crucial point remains that the direction of this law, its implementation, is contrary to the Constitution. That must be an important signal for us, that we have heard it a number of times. For us, that's where the border lies. The Constitution is our joint agreement. It guarantees and guarantees. We have to deal with this very carefully. It is not only the administration of a public school, but also the risk of creating its own variant. In his reply, the Secretary of State says that in practice a few dozen schools are likely to become a school of cooperation within the meaning of this law. However, the law is not aimed at this. The law aims to make it possible for a large group of schools to become a school of cooperation. I would just like to read out what the Council of State has said about this. The challenge of Article 23 of the Constitution has become less pressing as a result of the new continuity standard, which has not been absent, but has become less pressing. It has been observed that the adapted standard, particularly in primary education, has the consequence that a large group of schools will continue to be eligible for the formation of a cooperation school, according to the Council of State. We've already found that's a third. This is based on the opinion of the Council of State that this is contrary to the Constitution, because there is going to be a variation. In practice, this will moderate and mitigate, but this is what the law is about. That's what we're in. We will not support this bill. Nor will we support the motions, nor will we support the motion tabled to provoke a public debate on Article 23 of the Constitution. Given our position in this debate, we are not in a position to do so. Moreover, we have already amended the Constitution in 2006, precisely in view of the school of cooperation. We should follow the Constitution on this point. Our position today is that we must stick to the Constitution as it is now, because it must be our guide, also in the debate we are having here. We will not support a motion which is currently calling for a social debate on Article 23. I said today that the Constitution was never put into practice either, but we will not support the motion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. As already stated in the first term, the legislative proposal we are debating today can count on the support of my group. Informal cooperation schools do not provide a basis for parents and pupils to ensure their desired identity in the longer term. The present legislative proposal provides for a limited extension of the possibilities of establishing a formal school of cooperation. At the same time, it simplifies its administrative structure. In doing so, it meets a clear societal need. In my group's opinion, the proposal before us remains within the text and the intention of the constitutionalist. The continuity criterion refers to a gradual balance that cannot be concluded in conflict with the Constitution. Since the design and monitoring of the special identity are shifted from the administrative level to the school level, with safeguards such as identity committees, statutes and dispute settlement, no conflict with the Constitution can be concluded here either. Then I'll get to the motions. We have co-signed the VVD and we support it, as it removes undesirable potential obstacles to the formation of cooperation schools. In the present legislative proposal we see no contradiction with the Constitution and therefore no reason to support the motion tabled by the SP. We prefer schools to spend time in pragmatic solutions rather than in fundamental discussions. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to link an analysis of additional possibilities for maintaining small schools to the evaluation of the legislative proposal before us. For the children of today's village school in Spijk this is too late, but younger brothers and sisters like to enjoy the breeding ground for educational quality and community spirit. I like to finish with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u228	Mr. Chairman. I'm not really getting much further in my assessment than I was in my first term. I think it is an excellent proposal, apart from one part, that the school of cooperation can also be hung under a umbrella in the form of a foundation based on Article 48 of the Law on Primary Education. The Council of State and the organisations say that this is contrary to the Constitution, and that is also my own feeling about it. I would have no objection to putting up a cooperation school under a neutral umbrella, but I do object to putting it under a umbrella that is so connected to the public obligations, in this case. I will therefore support the motion tabled on a debate on Article 23 of the Constitution. When we come to a different formulation of the freedom of education, it is perhaps possible to eliminate this fundamental contradiction that we currently have between, on the one hand, government-standardized and guaranteed education and, on the other hand, public-sector education. In doing so, we will remove the problem we are facing here as regards the wording as it stands in the Constitution and thus with the system that we are applying. If this law, which I am therefore going to vote against because of the fundamental objection that exists in this constellation, is not adopted, then the basis for the Bruin motion will also fall, I think. After all, there is no law on identity committees anymore. If the law is passed, I will be happy to support the Bruine motion. After all, it makes sense for these identity committees to be helped with models, which can indeed be best provided by the VO Council and the PO Council. They should be able to formulate how these identity committees can best formulate and exercise their tasks and powers. I shall therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u229	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for today's debate, for the written rounds that preceded it and for the oral consultations that we have also had. The various aspects have been addressed in different ways. On a number of points, we have received clarification in the debates and in the written rounds, but on a number of points, as far as I am concerned, this clarification was also totally unconvincing or satisfactory. In particular, my group is somewhat opposed to the objective reasoning. We are not opposed to the goal as such. The objective is extremely important and legitimate. But a purpose is not enough when you talk about the feasibility within constitutional frameworks. I have to say that the Secretary of State is mainly arguing on this point: I think that this is possible. He says: we have talked about it within the department and we believe that we can. I think that is too thin and I did not find the argument convincing. I refer to the issue of equivalence or asymmetry, I refer to the discussion between the legislator and the constitutionalist, I refer to the distinction between public education and public school, and to the distinction between special education and special school. I note that we have not really made much progress on all these points. On the other hand, I should perhaps make a point about the Bruijn motion. I think it is a nice motion because it seeks at least to clarify the role of the Committee on Identity. I say again: I have nothing against that identity committee. On the contrary. But I'm afraid that makes it a bit like mopping on the Titanic. That might help for a while, but it doesn't get you farther if you don't have a clear question as to what exactly should be delegated. What characteristics and characteristics of the special or public education are you talking about? That makes it complicated to vote in favour of this motion, even if there are some nice things in it. Of course, if there's a hand-off, there's no harm in that. Ultimately, the most important question is where the limits of what the Constitution allows are now. Yes, much can be done within Article 23 of the Constitution, but in our opinion this is not the case. Here, the Constitution is stretched through a formal law. That is certainly a problem for us. Now I'm right to admit that you can think differently about that. I am not from the school where I think colleagues who have a different view on this have not read the law properly. I think they have studied the law just as well, but they have come to another weighing. I respect that. But it does mean that it is time for us to really rethink Article 23. I find it disappointing that there are fellow Members who say: let us, now that we have had this law and we are returning to peace for a moment, especially not talk about the real questions that lie below. I'm sorry to hear that. I think that there are the essential questions that we will have to discuss. There's long since been no longer the dichotomal system that may have ever existed. There's a wide spectrum of schools. That simply raises his own questions, especially in relation to where we stand in the Constitution. A future-proof guarantee of the fundamental right to education means that we must deal with the Constitution in a future-proof manner. That means we have to be resilient to the lazyness of a government that happens to be there at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. Will the Secretary of State be able to answer directly? I see that's the case. That's good. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. Before I respond to the motions, I may have to comment briefly on Mr Schalk's question. Of course, I will come back to the Chamber to indicate how many schools are making use of this opportunity, what proportion of them will eventually be covered by a special administration and what part of a public administration. I think it would be a good idea to include that in the legal evaluation and to keep it parallel. Mr Pijlman asked about the supervision of public education. How can you tell? That is, of course, a rather complicated discussion. If you compare the shares of Protestant-Christian, Catholic and public purely, and you compare this with, for example, the number of people who are actively confessing in a certain church community, you can see that there is some distortion there. At the same time, there are also a lot of parents who no longer go to church and no longer believe and yet consciously choose it, it is important that their children go to a Protestant-Christian school, for example, because they have done so themselves in the past and they also consider the values that children get with it important, regardless of the Bible or the faith. So it's hard to tell. More specifically, how do you determine that there is sufficient public education? The law states that if there is no school within a 10 kilometer radius, but there are at least 50 parents who ask a municipality to set it up, that municipality will have to examine whether there is enough incentive to start a school. Finally, Mr Pijlman also asked about the possibility for a school to change colour, to mention it, so to change its identity. This is not yet possible, but this possibility is created in the law by an earlier bill adopted here on the future-proof educational offer, which starts on 1-1-2018. Parents can also, if they are active in the participation council, enter into discussions. I come to the two motions that have been tabled, starting with Mr Bruijn's motion. It's in line with the bill. In fact, the motion goes one step further and asks for a hand-out. I could do very well with that. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion tabled by Mrs Gerkens and others calls for a fundamental debate on Rule 23. I'm a little more reluctant about that. I can't quite follow the reasons for that either. In the recital, this debate is addressed and urgent issues, but I cannot state exactly that either. As far as I am concerned, there should be a more concrete reason to enter into such a fundamental discussion on the Constitution. Apart from that, at the request of the Lower House, the Education Council issued a very good report in 2012 on the significance of Article 23 in today's society. I think that's enough for now. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mr President, may I conclude by saying something? I would like to thank the Chamber for this very nice and fundamental debate. A debate on whether something fits into the Constitution, yes or no, has a very fundamental character. I've managed to convince a number of people. I hope, of course, that that is a majority. I also note that I have not been able to convince everyone, which I regret. Should this bill make it, then perhaps as a light round the following. I was in Wolphaartsdijk some time ago, where two of these schools, one Protestant Christian and one public, stood side by side. They are actually waiting for the opportunities that may arise if this bill is adopted. Then I asked the kids in class, "Oh, don't you see that as a problem when the two schools get together?" Those kids were just really happy and they said: that's only beautiful, because then we'll have some more friends and friends. I know that this is perhaps not a decisive argument in this Chamber of reflection, but perhaps a light note on this late evening!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u232	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote at the end of the sitting on the legislative proposal and on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-7.u233	I shall suspend the meeting for a few minutes pending the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
