ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I understand that a number of mayors from the municipalities concerned are here. I also see them sitting in the public gallery. I would like to welcome them. Of course, I would also like to welcome Minister Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing in plenary three municipal assemblies and reorganising them. A special moment, not only because it concerns four legislative proposals, which we are discussing in one debate, but also because I am speaking here alongside the VVD Group on behalf of colleagues from the Labour Party, the CDA, D66, the Christian Union, GroenLinks and the SGP, which is, of course, very special five weeks before the elections. Only really special is that we are standing here today because these legislative proposals are the culminations of a positive and bottom-up process that began with the open and honest examination of the existence and functioning of municipalities. A merger process was then carried out together with the residents. Now the route ends with a merger or reclassification of one's own municipality with neighbouring municipalities which is desired and accepted by the population, companies, directors and representatives of the people. In the merger of the municipalities of Rijnwaarden and Zevenaar, the merger of the municipalities of Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Menterwolde and Slochteren, the merger of the municipalities of Bellingwedde and Vlagtwedde and the reclassification of the municipalities of Franekeradeel, het Bildt, Leeuwarden, Leeuwarderadeel, Littenseradiel, Menameradiel and Súdwest-Fryslân, there has been a good and careful process in all cases. The four legislative proposals and all the underlying documents also show that. So support all four legislative proposals. From this point on, I would like, on behalf of my fellow Members, to congratulate all the municipalities on their progress and wish them every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, the top 30 of the SP candidate list visited the province of Groningen. We talked to residents there about how they experience life now that they have to live with the constant fear that their home may collapse due to an earthquake. Groningers feel forgotten by the rest of the country. The school buildings are not all resistant to earthquakes, hospitals are closed and the police do not come to reports more often than in time. We also talked to people about the reclassification, with people who live in Slochteren and have nothing to do with Menterwolde or Hoogezand. We heard people say that if they live in Tjuchem, it takes them more than an hour and a half, with buses and trains, to come to the town hall in Hoogezand to pick up their passport. This is not the first time, and it will certainly not be the last time we have talked in this Chamber about voluntary reclassifications of municipalities, but how voluntary are these reclassifications really? That's the question. If we ask the inhabitants, we will probably get a different answer than we will if we ask this cabinet. Of course, the city councils were in favour, so it was voluntary. But how voluntary is it if the reason given for all three reclassifications is each time they can't handle new tasks? In doing so, the municipality considered itself administratively and administratively too small to be a good cooperation partner and considered reclassification to be the only possible alternative for it. This is literally stated in the explanatory memorandum on the merging of Rhine values and Zevenaar. So it is not a voluntary reclassification, but it is a forced reclassification due to the fact that circumstances change, for example through decentralisation based on active government policy. I ask the Minister why a referendum on this reclassification was not held in these municipalities. If that had happened, we could have seen if the inhabitants really wanted to join other municipalities voluntarily. According to a poll, 47% of the people in Menterwolde were for a reclassification. 53%, i.e. a majority, was against that. Keeping speech evenings is not the same as actively going to people and asking for their opinion. In the context of other reclassifications, Mr Van Raak said that the local democracy of the population should be and that, if we remove it, we should ask people to do so. Is that still possible? Is the Minister prepared to urge the municipalities to do so in the inevitable subsequent reclassifications? It is time for the people in Rhine values, in Zevenaar and certainly also the people in Groningen to take back power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. The third speaker would be Mr Bosma, but I do not see him. So we have arrived at the end of the first term of office. I get the feeling that the Minister can answer directly and so give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is good to have this plenary debate, even now, in the first term, that there is quite broad agreement on the proposal before us. In the end, the municipalities are concerned with the competent authority and democratically elected administration. That has far-reaching powers. It is therefore good to consider such a moment and to see that there is indeed a significant change in the competent authority and in the administration on the ground. At the start of this cabinet period there were 415 municipalities and, if this takes place, 380 municipalities. The number of municipalities would then have decreased by 10% as a result of a process that was carried out from the bottom up. I find it interesting to highlight this because the Prime Minister was asked in the very first debate on the declaration of government how the Chamber should read what is in the government agreement on the municipal scale. The Prime Minister replied that we do not mean anything that should be imposed from above. He said that, if municipalities decide themselves, I'm going to come up with how they do it in a moment, that they can better serve their citizens by working together and eventually coming to an administrative merger, we'll see the value of it and we'll facilitate and support it where necessary. I very much agreed with that. In the last four years, therefore, this process has taken place several times in a legislative proposal, as is happening today. Today we are discussing four legislative proposals to reclassification 2. A bill concerns the province of Gelderland. Two legislative proposals concern the province of Groningen and a legislative proposal concerns the province of Friesland. In Gelderland, the municipalities of Rijnwaarden and Zevenaar are merged into the new municipality of Zevenaar with 43.000 inhabitants. In Groningen it concerns the merger of the municipalities Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Menterwolde and Slochteren into the new municipality of Midden-Groningen, which will have 60,000 inhabitants. In addition, in Groningen it concerns the merger of the municipalities Bellingwedde and Vlagtwedde into the new municipality Westerwolde, which will have 25,000 inhabitants. The bill for Fryslân concerns three reclassifications involving a total of seven municipalities, which are closely linked by the abolition and division of Littenseradiel. The municipalities of Franekeradeel, the Bildt, Menameradiel and part of Littenseradiel go together to the new municipality of Waadhoeke. The municipality of Leeuwarderadeel and part of Littenseradiel are added to Leeuwarden by means of a special reclassification variant. Finally, part of Littenseradiel, also by a slight merger, is added to Súdwest-Fryslân. For all legislative proposals, the municipalities concerned have gone through an excellent process of reclassification. They have been created from the bottom up in all cases; there is broad social and administrative support in the municipality. Moreover, it is up to the municipalities to determine how they determine that basis of support. If the democratically elected municipal government, which is at the head of the municipality according to article 125 of the Constitution, is at the head of the municipality, the city council decides that it wants to assess the will of the people with a referendum, then that is possible. If it wants to do that in other ways, so can it. The city council is free to do so. That is not something we must judge or guide from The Hague. Regionally, in Friesland, Gelderland and Groningen, there is also sufficient support for this reclassification in the neighbouring municipalities. That is also an important criterion. I appreciate the fact that the municipalities concerned are taking this initiative. That fits in with my policy that they are primarily responsible for strengthening the power of government and taking it up. The proposals as they stand meet the five criteria in the current municipal reclassification policy framework drawn up in 2013: first, support, second, internal coherence of village and core policies, third, administrative power, fourth, balanced regional balance and fifth, sustainability. This means that next year we will not have to be there again because it was actually a step-by-step, perhaps necessary, but did not create a sustainable situation. As far as Friesland is concerned, there are also the additional criteria for a minor merger, as I mentioned earlier, namely agreement by the parties concerned and agreement on the legal status of the staff of the municipalities to be removed. If you have two more minutes, Mr. President, I'll walk down the town halls. It is important for those concerned to say a few words about it. In Gelderland the municipality of Rijnwaarden and Zevenaar want to continue together as the municipality of Zevenaar. The reclassification is due to the wishes of the municipalities themselves. After the signal from the municipality of Rijnwaarden that it could no longer survive independently, the municipality of Zevenaar considered itself a logical partner of Rhinewaarden. Both the directors and the inhabitants of the two municipalities have ample support for this reclassification. With the merger of Rijnwaarden and Zevenaar and the planned merger of Duiven and Westervoort, a good solution has been found for the lengthy discussion that is taking place in the region of De Liemers, a solution that all municipalities fully support. The end of this "paralyzing debate," as the Committee on Strong Governance in Gelderland pointed out, and the shared support for the chosen solution will, in my opinion, strengthen the administrative power in the region. So much for my comments on the proposal for the municipalities in Gelderland. Two of the four above-mentioned reclassifications concern municipalities in Groningen. These are the result of the provincial desire to renew the administrative organisation in Groningen. As is well known, a separate report was produced on the subject of Grenzloos Gunnen under the chairmanship of Geert Jansen. This fits in with that larger picture and part of it concerns strengthening local government in the province. It stems from the wishes of the municipalities themselves. It originated from below. The municipalities Bellingwedde and Vlagtwedde want to continue together as the municipality of Westerwolde. There is a large administrative and public support for this. Westerwolde becomes a vast rural municipality that attaches great importance to small scale and civilian proximity. With the merger, the vulnerabilities in the administrative apparatus that Bellingbedde and Vlagtwedde faced disappear. The new municipality will be able to carry out its local tasks independently in a responsible manner. Internal cohesion is strong. There is a clear focus on being a green residential, nature, and agricultural community. When you read it like that, you think, "I'd like to go there." So know to find it all, this beautiful new town. The municipalities Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Slochteren and Menterwolde want to go on together as the municipality of Midden-Groningen. This merger creates an administrative municipality that can contribute to balanced, administrative relations in the province of Groningen. Given the diversity of the urban and more rural areas, the planned new municipality will invest a lot in a coherent village and core policy. The scientific vision of a new municipality on identity, ambitions and tasks can be summarized as: large scale with an eye and space for small scale. That's actually a pretty good motto for the whole of national government, I'd say. Finally, Friesland. The reclassifications are due to the desire of the municipalities of Franekeradeel, the Bildt, Leeuwarderadeel, Littenseradiel and Memaradiel to strengthen their own administrative power and to face social, spatial and economic challenges in the future. Leeuwarden and Súdwest-Fryslân, larger municipalities, are involved in the reclassifications to arrive at a logical territorial solution. The latter two do not suffer from a lack of administrative power, but are willing to make a contribution to the bigger picture. Both administrative and social support for the three reclassifications in Friesland is strong. The Councils voted unanimously or by a large majority in favour of the proposal. So that is also my answer to the SP's question. The People's Assembly has spoken, and that is what ultimately matters to me. In addition, the reclassification advice is positively assessed by the province and there are no negative views submitted by neighbouring municipalities. The municipalities concerned have paid a lot of attention to involving residents in the preparation. Participation evenings have been organised in all municipalities. Due to the abolition and division of three municipalities of the municipality of Littenseradiel, there is a great deal of attention for internal cohesion. Leading principle in these reclassifications in Friesland is what they call "nodality," or knots. This includes the orientation of residents, historical links and commuting. Both in the new municipality of Waadhoeke and in the undisclosed municipalities of Leeuwarden and Súdwest-Fryslân, the current experience of village and district councils in the municipalities concerned will be the basis for maintaining the individuality of the cores. This seems to pay sufficient attention to the differences in the size, function and culture of the village cores. A number of people will soon be living in Europe's new cultural capital by joining Leeuwarden as a result of this small change. By the way, Leeuwarden already did this whole project in good collaboration with many municipalities in the area. The merger is not expected to adversely affect the administrative relations in the Northwest Friesland region, including Harlingen's position. The municipalities concerned have set out to be open to cooperation initiatives with the municipality of Harlingen. The province has a positive assessment of the reclassification advice, which Harlingen is not part of. I therefore have no reason to doubt the sustainability of these reclassifications. In fact, I have already given the answer to Mr Van Gerven's question in my speech. Criterion number one is that there should be support. It needs to be supported from the bottom up. I leave this question to the local authorities. I noted in Mr Van Gerven's contribution the "grab the power" leuze of the SP. So he also found his place today, of which he is aware. I would like to thank Mr Veldman, who spoke on behalf of many parties, for expressing the broad support for the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you to the Minister for spreading our slogan "grab the power" to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	We're not being silly about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	These legislative proposals are, of course, about local democracy. Let me put it this way: in a number of municipalities, local democracy is being abolished and replaced by a new, larger democracy. We have seen that in all these municipalities tens or a few hundred people participated in the decision-making process, in the public participation evenings and what has been going on. Would it not be desirable, if such a crucial decision were to be taken, for the people's opinion to be checked through a referendum? Wouldn't that be an orderly end to the process of deciding on a reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	In our democracy, the opinion of the people is first and foremost questioned in elections, in ordinary, direct, open elections. We can see that there is large and unanimous support from the representatives of the people for these reclassifications in some municipalities. This is, of course, the most important test, in which the opinion of the population is checked through its representatives. In addition, the municipalities are free to decide that the municipalities have all done so in order to involve the population in the opinion-forming process which ultimately takes place in the decision of the municipal council whether or not to engage in such a merger. It's not my place to judge how many people there were and how it was organized. There are also municipalities that consult their people through referendums. It's up to them. That's the autonomy of local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	I therefore understand very well from the Minister that the instrument of referendum in such a decision-making process is at least an option and that it is reserved for municipal directors to organise or not. Is the Minister prepared to make it clear to the municipal authorities that this is an option in future reclassifications which will inevitably come about? As far as the SP is concerned, that would be a good conclusion to the democratic process of redefining or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	The SP still struggles a little with the representative democracy, I have the impression. It is really up to the democratically elected representatives of the people to determine how they fulfil their role and also how they wish to involve those they represent in their own opinion-forming and ultimately position-making. There has been a redeployment of a framework, and I have referred to it. I will remind the local government of the framework that applies to future reclassifications every time. That's the clue in which it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	Just finishing up. I understand that the Minister does not want to do so, but at least it is an opportunity to organise a referendum on a reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	That's not a new fact. I note that acceptance is criterion number one in determining by law whether we agree to a municipal merger. For us local support means that at least the city council must agree. There are also situations where ultimately the knot has to be cut, but this is not the case with these reclassifications. Now all the municipalities concerned agree with the reclassifications proposed. In addition, there are all kinds of tools for the competent authority to involve the population in the decision it has to take. One of these is indeed a consultative referendum, but one can also hold participation evenings and the like. These possibilities are already there and that is well known. That is not a new fact, and that is why I do not need to remind anyone of it. They already know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. I see there is no need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister. The votes on these legislative proposals will be held next Tuesday.
