ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u1	In the meantime, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been appointed. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Buildings from the Russian Ministry of Defence in the east of that country have been out of electricity since last week, so I read in The Moscow Times. The reason for this is that the electricity company simply closed the power supply because the bills were not paid. This is how people in Russia deal with pay-as-you-goers, even when it comes to the government. It is more complicated in diplomatic matters, as we have seen. The court found that traffic fines could not be imposed on diplomats. In the interests of the law, the appeal was considered, but ultimately not considered appropriate by the Attorney General at the Supreme Court. Since it is completely independent, I shall leave it at that. The cabinet would like to come up with a law allowing the CJIB data on diplomats to be transferred to Foreign Affairs, which will then send a notification letter. It is hoped that the diplomats will pay after all. However, it remains a non-binding system. In the extreme case, the possibility to withdraw a tank pass or place someone on a list of the ten largest contributors is considered, but the PVV is not really convinced of the effectiveness of this system. For the judgment of the Leeuwarden Court, 42 CJIB decisions were sent to diplomats and only 4 of them were finally paid; no more than 4 out of 42. The question therefore arises: why would diplomats pay entirely voluntarily if they did not before? The PVV therefore wants the cabinet to look at the effectiveness of the system in the city of New York, where there are the same problems with diplomats, but where it is said: the license plates of diplomats are not renewed or not reissued if parking tickets are available. My question is: how effective does it work there? I'd like to see that examined. At least then we know whether that can be a meaningful addition. Hence the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u3	You are already well over your speaking time. You have one more second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u4	Well, it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u5	No, but this is important. You keep a whole story and then you come forward with a motion. The rule is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u6	I'm gonna try to do it real fast, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to send a draft law to the Chamber in 2017 which provides for the CJIB to provide the data of diplomats who have committed traffic offences to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the purpose of sending notification letters;]] [[noting that 42 CJIB decisions relating to traffic offences were sent to diplomats in the period prior to the judgment of the Court of Justice, of which only four were paid;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the effectiveness of the system which the government intends to establish for the non-binding use of diplomats who have committed a traffic offence can be doubted;]] [[calls on the Government, the City of New York system, which provides diplomatic plates for only one year and does not extend them if traffic fines are not paid to investigate effectiveness and any problems raised, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Roon, Mr Helder and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u8	It really has to be in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. As is well known, the VVD has been getting excited about diplomats who actually laugh and systematically break all the rules and get away with it. It's perfectly natural that lawbreakers should be punished. It is quite understandable that people get very angry about it when they see that this is not happening. We also understand that there are difficult dilemmas in this subject through the operation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. This treaty also protects Dutch diplomats abroad. So we have to make sure that we don't throw the baby away with the bathwater. We live in a world in which it is extremely important that Dutch diplomats are protected. In short, we must act creatively. This must be done within the framework of diplomatic mores, but also in a way that does justice to the feelings of justice that live here in the Chamber and in large groups of the population, I think among everyone. My group has felt that action should be taken in this area for almost ten years. I would like to thank this Minister for taking this action. He does so with the commitments made during the AA. I am thinking in particular of the publication of the list of non-payers, the taking-and-shaming that results from it and the possibility of taking tank passes for diplomats. I would like to come back to one point: the late maintenance of embassies and government homes here in the Netherlands. This is also the subject of the Vienna Convention. That makes it impossible to force embassies to perform maintenance, while it is often about monumental buildings. There are also European countries, such as Croatia and Greece, but Congo and Egypt also lend themselves to this. I therefore ask the Minister to make an effort to do this and to remind embassies not only of their responsibility in relation to traffic fines, but also of their responsibility to properly maintain the often Dutch monumental buildings they own. We need to use the instruments promised in the AO to do so or, if necessary, to stop the OS funds to those countries. I agree with Mr De Roon on this point, because the State of New York is an example of this too. Hopefully, the Minister will be ready to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations grants foreign diplomats immunity. It is an important treaty, as my colleagues have said, but it is indeed being abused. Mass traffic offences are committed and fines are not paid. That was never the intention of this treaty. Nobody's above the law, or you'll get class justice. This group of people must also comply with the rules. Infringements cannot and must not remain without consequences. I am therefore tabling a motion which is intended as an appeal, really as an urgent request from the Chamber, to use all the possibilities that exist; we have discussed this in order to ensure that crimes and offences do not go unpunished and without consequences. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that foreign diplomats regularly fail to pay fines for traffic offences;]] [[noting that the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations grants foreign diplomats immunity, but that it has never been the intention of the Convention that crimes and offences should go unpunished;]] [[considers that it is unacceptable if crimes and offences committed by foreign diplomats go unpunished and there are no consequences for the offender;]] [[calls on the Government not to leave any unused possibility, including the sending of letters, the withdrawal of tank passes, parking permits and registrations, and the drawing up and public distribution of lists of of offenders classified to embassy or international organisation, in order to ensure that offences and offences committed by foreign diplomats do not remain unpunished and without consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat my contribution to the general consultation before Christmas, but let it be clear that all the parliamentary groups, at least the Labour Party, agree that all possibilities should be explored to keep diplomats under traffic rules and parking permits. In that sense, I can support Mr Van Nispen's motion in any case. Since the last debate, we have received two more letters, for which I would like to thank the cabinet. Bright is that we can still go into cassation. The balance has already been made and I respect the decision not to do so. The other letter, on the way in which traffic offences are dealt with in other countries, confirmed to me that there is indeed an assessment that parking penalties can be imposed on diplomats. Frankly, I am not convinced in advance that this could lead to the same judgment as in the Netherlands if it were to be reviewed in court. The cabinet has chosen to set up this alternative system. Let it be speeded up! I hope that the Chamber will be able to be informed very soon about when it will enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u12	I am pleased to hear Mr Servaes say that he would like to support all the studies that could contribute to putting pressure on diplomatic payments. My motion also suggests such an investigation. Could Mr Servaes also support that motion in the spirit? Or does he not support the motion, because the PvdA never wants to support PVV-motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u13	On that last point you know our position; that will also be the case today. I referred to the broad outline that Mr Van Nispen had included in his motion. I thought that would give a good overview of the possibilities that we have already discussed with the cabinet. Some may be somewhat at odds with the agreements contained in the Vienna Convention. I believe that the Minister has already said that he would like to look at the tank passes, which are referred to in Mr De Roon's motion. Quite apart from my fundamental point of view regarding PVV-motions, I believe that in this case it might become superfluous, but we will hear it from the cabinet in a moment. However, I have not yet been able to read the motion in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u14	I suggest that Mr Servaes read the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u15	Yes. I'll be sure to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u16	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution to this VAO. As a general remark, let me say on behalf of my colleague in the security and justice field that we share what has been said in the VAO. What can we do as soon as possible about this feeling of injustice, which is also understandable, and about the feeling that "equal monks, equal hoods" clearly do not stand up for diplomats? We are aware that we have a ruling from the Court and the Vienna Convention. We have come up with a number of proposals which I am sure the Chamber will support, given the nature of the motion, that new way that we have jointly investigated and that we are now going to implement as soon as possible with regard to notifications. We also want to take action in the area of tank passes, of course on the basis of notifications. As stated in the Van Nispen/Sjoerdsma motion, we do not want to waste any opportunity to ensure that foreign diplomats assume their responsibilities when it comes to sometimes very annoying behaviour. In the motion-De Roon c.s. in piece No. 63 is specifically asked to look again at how the fuel passes are going in the United States and whether we could learn from them. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations obliges the Netherlands to facilitate diplomatic missions in their functioning. This includes the provision of parking spaces for service cars, for example. It also includes certain privileges, which we cannot simply withdraw. In his motion, Mr De Roon proposes measures that we should examine. At the moment I have the impression that this is not so easy to take over under Dutch law. As a renowned lawyer, Mr De Roon will also know that the US has a different relationship between international law and national law. International law is not automatically adopted. As a result, people have their own ability to do other things locally than we can. I say immediately that my first impression is that it is very difficult to apply that system to the Dutch situation, but I have no problem having it looked at again. So, on the basis of the current knowledge, I say directly that I think this will be very complicated. I think it's fine because I don't want to miss any opportunity to look at it again. The same applies to the points made by Mr Ten Broeke in connection with the debate. In that sense, I would like to welcome Mr De Roon's motion and say that we are going to do so. I will try to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I would add that I have doubts as to whether it is possible, but we are going to look at exactly what is and is not possible. The Van Nispen/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. I welcome 64, but I would ask the authors to hold the motion. One of the elements of the request is precisely what we are still investigating. I do not know whether Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma can agree. Let there be no misunderstanding that we are thinking in the same direction. We have taken and proposed a number of measures concerning the sending of letters and the withdrawal of tank passes. With regard to parking permits and registration numbers, I would like to inform the Chamber once again, also in the light of what Mr De Roon said about this. I have doubts about this, but I would like to look again at whether or not these measures can be taken. We are in favour of spreading the lists of of offenders in the manner we have put forward in the AO. Mr Ten Broeke has also reported this. I therefore propose the following. The judgment on the motion-De Roon c.s. in piece No. 63 I leave to the Chamber. If the Chamber decides to accept that motion, this can be examined, and I would like to point out the comments I have just made. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sjoerdsma, I suggest that pending that investigation, they hold their motion. If it is possible, I would like to give a positive opinion on their motion, but at the moment I cannot do so because I have some doubts about the possibilities for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u17	In itself, I welcome the Minister's attitude. At the heart of the motion is that we leave no opportunity untapped. Then there is a list. I would like to give the Minister the following consideration. We're not doing this for nothing. This debate has been going on for a long time, and this is a subject that concerns many Members of Parliament. If the Chamber wishes to send this important signal by adopting the motion and the Minister then finds, in the course of carrying out the motion, that certain matters are directly contrary to the Treaty and he then proves it convincingly, the Chamber will have to accept it and will accept it. That is a slightly different approach, but I could also imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u18	If that is the interpretation of the author of the motion, I have no problem with that. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. We will examine what is being asked by Mr De Roon. I will therefore take the questions on maintenance with me when I answer them. I can't exactly judge that right now. In doing so, I answered the questions and gave an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-12.u19	This brings us to the end of this VAO. There will be a vote on the motions next Tuesday. I thank both rulers. We now have a few minutes to prepare for the retirement debate with the Secretary of State.
