ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. I find it incomprehensible. While there has been considerable savings in recent years on the people who often literally have to get us out of the fire, at the same time expensive external consultants and interim managers are being flown into the security regions. At least that image gets to me when I see the pieces that RTV Noord-Holland and EenVandaag have been obsessed with. External hiring is sometimes inevitable, but if you cut into the organization and therefore necessary expertise disappears, something is thoroughly wrong. This is even more true if the remuneration also violates the rules of the Standards Act. GroenLinks believes that the hiring of externals should remain an exception in all circumstances. In addition, political auditors must always be able to determine the legality of the external hire. Transparency is necessary, especially on this subject, which has been in public and political interest for many years. I have the following questions. How does the Home Secretary assess the situation in the security regions? Does it comply with the rules of the Standards Act? Does the Minister consider that an adequate understanding of the nature and extent of the external hire has been provided? Can political and public opinion, from the rather poor figures in my opinion, make an independent assessment of the explanatory hiring of external expertise? Is this an incident in North Holland or are we talking about a structural problem here? And how does the Minister ensure that public organisations limit external hiring to what is necessary and provide maximum accountability? After all, it is about spending our taxpayers' money. Political supervisors, such as the Councils, the States and the House of Representatives, should be able to assess the legality of spending and whether the services provided are proportionate to remuneration. What is the Minister going to do to improve transparency in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we have introduced the Standards Act for Top Incomes in this cabinet period. That is, in my opinion, the strictest law, at least in the Western world, on limiting top incomes of directors in the public and semi-public sectors. In this particular case, it concerns the security regions. They are a form of extended local government. It is up to the municipal councils to assess whether the money is being spent there optimally, but if there is a breach of the Top Income Standards Act, of course I am responsible for monitoring it. I haven't seen the broadcast of Oneday, but my people have. Most of the officials in it are not top executives. They therefore do not fall within the scope of the Top Income Standards Act, but I would like to include them. I have therefore given a new legislative proposal, the so-called WNT3, in consultation, I have just received it back from the Council of State, so that non-drivers will also be included. Anyway, in the end, it's up to a new coalition to judge that law. As I said, there were no people in this broadcast who fell within the scope of the WNT because they were top officials. I know that for 2014 and 2015, because we have annual reports on this. That's public information. This can be found in it. There may be one or two cases in 2016 that still have to be assessed whether they fall within the scope of that law, but the annual report has just been published. I can assure Mrs Özütok that the WNT monitoring, which takes place from BZK, will look closely at whether in these cases the legal standard has been exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Is the Minister working on a new law to improve enforcement? Or is it going to be a whole new law to include a number of other functions? That remains the question for me. I do not think I have received a clear answer to my question as to how we can improve the annual reports in order to make them more transparent for the Councils, the States and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	First of all, I come to the new law. It was given in consultation and is therefore public and known. The aim of this law is to ensure that the regime of the Law on Standards applies not only to drivers, for example the director of a hospital, but also to people who have a different function. So it's all employees. There is quite a lot of discussion about this and there is quite a lot of criticism about it, because it is a far-reaching law. We just got that bill back from the Council of State. As far as the annual reports are concerned, we have done quite a lot in recent years, including in discussions with the Chamber, to ensure that all relevant information is available. I have no reason to say that we do not have sufficient information for the WNT oversight. We work closely with accountants. This leads to discussions on a number of occasions, because they feel that they need to find out very difficult things. That information is there. As far as externally hired and locally appointed non-top officials are concerned, I can't reach that from the WNT. That really is the responsibility of local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	There's a lot of cuts on the fire department. Barracks are closed, equipment is cut, and volunteers are chased out of the organization. At the same time, you have regular managers who get up to three tons, so much more than the minister. What does the Minister think of that? Can he understand why all these firefighters won't accept that? Will the Minister also table a new law as soon as possible to make this impossible in the future? The minister says that the council members in the municipal councils should check this, but the security regions don't write that very well in the documents that go to the city council. I don't want to say they're lying, but at least they're not telling the truth. So how is the Minister going to ensure that these council members are properly informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	My assessment of the cases that are being asked is that people who work as firefighters and earn three tonnes should be brought under the legal regime of the WNT. That's why I have the WNT3 in preparation. The proposal has been consulted and has already been sent to the Council of State for advice. As a result, not only the drivers of the fire department but also other officials working there are brought under way. I hope that the treatment will show that there is support for the law, which, by the way, more than triples the target group. The number of drivers is of course a small group at the top. If you also bring all the layers underneath, the number increases significantly. Then the information to the local council. This is an extension of local government. The municipal councils themselves are the first to call the bell and say: we want to be fully informed. If I can support them in that, I'm available to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I hear the Minister giving the legally correct answer that he is not dealing with it and that there is a legislative proposal under discussion, but we are talking about an industry, a world that is almost entirely based on volunteers. I would ask the Minister to pay more attention to this. I call him to that, too. I ask him what he is going to do in the coming months, even though it is not directly his competence, and even though the law is not yet in force, to give the firefighters the impression that he thinks this is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I understand the question, but I decided the following very early in this process. We're the cabinet that's really doing something about it. We have introduced a law that sets an absolute ceiling for, in this case, the directors in the public but also in the semi-public sector. There's never been a law like that before. I have now made a bill that will extend it to all the others who work there. I don't do that for nothing. I do that because I believe with the CDA that it doesn't give me a pass that a manager in the fire department makes three tons. That's more than a minister. I don't think that's possible. Now that we are doing so and actually doing so, I have made a commitment not to hold a moral judgment over and over again. That moral judgment is behind the law that we are introducing and the law that we have introduced. So I prefer to do it with deeds rather than words, but it is clear that I do believe that in the public and semi-public sectors, ministers' salaries should be the norm.
