ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. First of all, Mr Jetten of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. The weather is great, children are free from school and for many hobbyists the holiday is at the door. An ideal summer to fly your drone. But every toy must be able to do so safely. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has amended the rules on drones on a number of points, but on a number of points this can be done more sharply. Suppose a trauma helicopter lands near someone flying a drone. Such a trauma helicopter must also be able to leave for the hospital quickly and will not lose seconds because it has to be given priority by a drone first. Why isn't this more clearly laid down in the rules? Can the Secretary of State still respond to that? The information to people who buy a drone is still not properly arranged. The Chamber adopted a motion by my colleague, Mr Belhaj, last year, but that motion was not carried out. The request in the motion to the Secretary of State was actually very simple, namely, together with manufacturers and shopkeepers, to develop a leaflet or a package leaflet which clearly sets out the rules and dangers of flying drones. I have printed out the motion again for the form, with my name under it instead of Mrs Belhaj's. I do not think that is necessary, because I hope that the Secretary of State will soon implement this motion with this encouragement. Finally, I am tabling a motion on the safety of drones flying in drinking water facilities. That is where things can be better regulated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drinking water supplies fall within the top-vital infrastructure, and that drones may pose a risk because they may, intentionally or accidentally, result in highly harmful material in water-saving basins and/or intake points;]] [[whereas only a flight ban for drones on so-called works of art offers only partial relief to protect the multitude of open infrastructure;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the drinking water companies, to impose a flight ban on surface water bodies other than areas above works of art but where there is a high to very high safety risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30806-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u3	Mr. Chairman. Following the written consultation, we are tabling a motion on horizontal distance violations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that horizontal distance violations are detected by drone drivers on the basis of visual information by verbalizers;]] [[Whereas this is a very inaccurate and arbitrary way of establishing a distance violation;]] [[considers that enforcement should be based on objective and observable frameworks;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with alternatives to enable enforcement of horizontal distance violations and to send them to the House of Representatives for the next AO Aviation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30806-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u4	Mr. Chairman. I should like to comment on the two questions and on the two motions. I shall begin with Mr Jetten's question on the position of the trauma helicopter. He asks why it is not clearly laid down in rules that a drone should not go near it. A drone must give priority to a trauma helicopter at all times. That's already a general rule. A trauma chopper should be able to land anywhere. So we can't just lay down area restrictions for that. In principle, therefore, what he is asking for is already provided for in the regulation. Mr Jetten also asked about the implementation of the Belhaj motion. I am going to try to convince Mr Jetten that this motion has been carried out. We have put all the information together on the government site and of course we have also launched a public campaign. We do that both with radio spots and with billboards. We repeated this campaign in December 2016, because it is a month in which people give each other many gifts for all kinds of reasons, including probably drones. We have, of course, also done our own research, which has shown that it has been effective to do it this way. In Mrs Belhaj's motion, the government was asked to conclude a covenant with manufacturers and retailers in cooperation with the NVWA, in order to provide further information material to recreants; the package leaflet in the box, if you like. The NVWA examined this at our request on the basis of the motion and concluded that there is no legal basis for requiring manufacturers and retailers to do so. Different types of drones are governed by different laws and it is virtually impossible to provide drones coming from China, for example. Anyone can do that on their own. So I, together with the NVWA, brought the importers and the Dutch manufacturers into the picture and asked them to do a leaflet with the drones they deliver. There was a positive response to that. With this voluntary form of cooperation and with all the information we offer, we have implemented the motion as well as possible within the existing laws and regulations. There is therefore no point in re-presenting it, because then Mr Jetten will receive the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u5	It is true that conversations have been made and leaflets have been made, but I would like to guarantee it better. We know this Secretary of State as someone who likes to make deals and covenants. It would be nice if we could ensure the effort of the past year, so that we are sure that in future at least Dutch manufacturers and electronics companies will be able to include such a package leaflet. There is now stricter regulation. It would be a shame if this collapsed after last year's effective campaign. Let's make a covenant and make sure it's good for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u6	My impression isn't that it's collapsing again. I think we just agreed to this. They'll do it if they can. Nor do we have a legal title to oblige it. A covenant is concluded when you have legislation in hand. Now we've actually done what we can. It's been agreed and we'll really make sure it keeps happening. So I would like to promise that we will continue to keep everyone on a regular basis, including in our regular contacts. I really don't think that's a problem, but that's a different matter than putting together a covenant, not really on any legal basis. Mr Jetten has also tabled a motion, on item No. 42. My request to him is to hold that motion. I'll explain why. He asked the government, in cooperation with the drinking water companies, to impose a flight ban on surface water bodies other than areas above works of art where there was a high to very high safety risk. Actually, we're already in the middle of that conversation. At the moment it is already forbidden to fly with drones above contiguous buildings and works of art. Part of the drinking water infrastructure is actually already covered by this existing ban. So we don't have to deal with that separately. We have also discussed this with the representatives, and fortunately this has already overcome some of their concerns. We are still in consultation with Vewin to determine whether it is necessary to draw up additional regulations to prohibit drones flying over drinking water areas other than those mentioned. The condition is that it should be enforceable and enforceable. Some drinking water areas are not recognizable as such. Nor can we regard very large areas as a no-fly zone for economic reasons. There is also an important argument. The representatives of vital infrastructure have also indicated that some areas should not be known for a number of reasons. If we're going to put them on a recognizable map, we're going to do something they're not happy with. So we're in the middle of a discussion. I think it's going well. I can send a letter to the Chamber after the summer about the outcome. Perhaps it is possible that until then the motion will be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u7	I understand from the drinking water companies that they do not have sufficient confidence that this conversation will really lead to concrete measures. If the Secretary of State says the conversations are still going on, I'd like to give her room for that. I'm glad she wants to inform the Chamber about that after the summer. I think it's important to respond to that. Of course, you cannot ban all those areas for drones, but look with the drinking water companies at the crucial places when it comes to drinking water safety. If the Secretary of State is working on these efforts, I can hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u8	Yeah, we're working on that effort. I am also surprised that this does not seem to make people feel senang. I would like to say to the drinking water companies: if you have no confidence, please report to me. Isn't it curious to do that through the Chamber, when I can just do that at my table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u9	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (30806, No. 42). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u10	Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 43. I would like to make the same request for that. At the moment, the distance and the way in which we got there with the police are aligned. Technology is now being developed within Europe. The European Commission is working on new regulations. He's gonna help us enforce it. There will be a new enforcement vision at the end of 2017. It takes the whole subject into account. If we start working on this now, it will be very difficult for the police, because it will have to deal with several forms of enforcement. My request is therefore that we hold the motion for a resolution. A new proposal will be presented at the end of 2017, including this. If Mr Laçin is still dissatisfied, he will find my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u11	Thanks for the answer. If there is more legislation and regulation coming from Europe by the end of 2017, I will hold on to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u12	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (30806, No. 43). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-32.u13	Both motions have been held, so it is no longer necessary to vote on them today.
