ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u2	Madam President and Deputy Secretary of State. We are talking today about two legislative proposals, first of all the legislative proposal on phosphate rights (34532) and, secondly, the proposal on land-based dairy farming (34295). As far as we are concerned, particular attention is paid to the first legislative proposal. I believe that this may be the case with several colleagues. It is very important to clarify this quickly. The urgency has been further underlined in recent weeks by the ruling of the amenities court at the court of The Hague in the case brought by several dozen dairy farmers in particular. The Secretary of State has let us know in the last few days that he's going to appeal. This makes it difficult to have a real substantive discussion on specifically the phosphate reduction plan 2017. We will make a few comments on this, but considering the state of play, including the announcement of appeal, we cannot but be reluctant. However, we do believe that we can deal with the two laws. I assume the Secretary of State shares this view. There are similarities, but at the same time the two laws that are being presented are separate from the ruling recently made by the court of provision. Clarity is necessary because the derogation is at stake in the Netherlands. This is also emphasised in detail in the explanatory memorandum. In the course of the legal process, the House of Representatives called upon the Secretary of State to look at the problems. We are dealing with problems which have taken place in the last few months with dozens, perhaps hundreds, at the same time. Dairy farmers who feel that they are disproportionately affected by the legislative proposals will come forward or have come forward. The same applies to many others. Our group has also addressed this particular point in the question. We are therefore pleased with the amendment tabled by Mr Geurts in respect of item No. 85 which states that an advisory committee should be set up to deal with the so-called problems. That committee will be there, because last weekend the Secretary of State informed us that the committee under Mr Kalden's leadership has either started or is about to start. The committee looks in particular at the scope of the problems. I think it would be good to say a few words about that. I would like to go back to the recent ruling of the Supreme Court on the phosphate reduction plan 2017. For the time being, the judge has accepted 52 entrepreneurs because, looking at the reference date of 2 July, the dairy farmers have indicated that they are disproportionately affected. This is the case, for example, if there was a significant investment or renewal in their business around the time of the level or reference date. So one could say that a number of specific forerunners may be the victim of their own innovative entrepreneurial spirit. Our group can certainly imagine the objections raised from that angle. That seems to us to be a problem, but it is obviously up to others to make a final assessment of it later. However, there are more. Similarly, exporters of cattle, of young heifers, have reported to us. Just before the date of 2 July, they had transported their cattle elsewhere and at the reference date they had zero livestock units. If you have 30 acres of land but you don't have any more cattle in your stables, it's hard to explain. I also mention the keepers of animals which should be included in the so-called rare breeds. They also have a lot of concerns, for example about the sheetfielders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr Atsma reviewed a number of stakeholders, but he started with the communication that we are mainly dealing with the pressure from Brussels. The derogation must go through, even though we do not even know about the problem. How does Mr Atsma weigh these two elements? Are we gonna go through with the law when we don't know what's coming out of the problem settlement? I'm tasting that from his speech. Or does he say, as I would say, first let's see which people are going to be affected by the problem and wait for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u4	You have to deal with the 2017 scheme and with problems that are already reported on the basis of the law. The fact that I say that we need to make haste has everything to do with the positioning that Brussels asked of the Netherlands and the need to clarify before 1 July. If we are not careful, dairy farming as a whole will become one big problem, namely if the derogation is actually put at risk. That is what we, the Secretary of State and the House of Representatives want to avoid. Clarity is quickly desirable. I have only mentioned three categories of entrepreneurs who may be in trouble. The sooner it is clarified, the committee will be all the better for that. For the time being, the committee still has work to do and there is a ruling from the court for the year 2017. Those two are gonna have to be left or right with each other's swallowtails.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u5	You have said a lot, but not much else than you said before. I was just looking for the choice that needs to be made eventually. Do we choose the forceful country of Brussels or do we choose to say to Brussels: we have this situation and it is good with you; we will first find out how we deal with our own entrepreneurs, our own farmers? From how I say this, you understand that my choice would be the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u6	Then you have to deal with the fact that we cannot determine that. We are dealing with the importance of the Dutch dairy farming sector as a whole. That's what we're looking at. The importance of this sector is that the derogation needs to be clarified quickly. If you agree with the CDA Group that the derogation should be retained in any case because it is vital for a large number of companies, then you should support the law and the proposals as they stand at the end of the journey. I have found that not everyone in the Lower House has done so. Let us hope that the understanding here is a little broader, because it is a broad interest, that we should keep an eye on it. I already talked about the third group, namely the holders of rare breeds. I mentioned the sheetfielders. How can it be ensured that some unique varieties do not fall below the minimum size of the livestock? The Secretary of State also states that the committee dealing with the problems is consulting with the sector. That is good, because consultation must always be there, but what does that mean in practice? I shall come back to that later, because the Secretary of State also states that there is in fact no appeal against what the committee does. We can imagine that if the committee makes generic statements, the individual entrepreneur will be affected. It is therefore conceivable that the entrepreneur should be able to appeal somewhere. We wonder why that space is not offered. This is also about a piece of equality of law. This Chamber also has to look at that. As far as we are concerned, the number of procedures should be kept as low as possible. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to clarify all these matters quickly. Because of the individual entrepreneur in relation to the broader advice of the bottleneck committee and looking at the ruling of the welfare judge, we have the strong impression that customization might be much more important than is assumed so far. Customization means looking at individual cases. They must be judged on their merits. Our view is that this customization is somewhat contrary to the view expressed by the Secretary of State in the law and, above all, in the explanatory statement. I would like a clear answer in that regard. As far as we can judge, the Secretary of State focuses on a very limited task when it comes to the work of the committee. What is the legal definition of this? What's limited? How far does the situation of the emergency committee go? We take from the legislative proposal that this road is not completely closed, but as far as we are concerned, the committee should also be able to give binding advice to the Secretary of State. That also makes it much easier for the Secretary of State. He may have a discretionary power that he can use. If you give the committee a greater power than hitherto is supposed to be customised and a binding opinion, then you might be able to get a lot of problems off the table prematurely. I have already indicated that it would be logical for an appeal to be made against the committee's opinion. If the Secretary of State feels that this is not necessary, then we have read his reasoning. We want to see a better basis for that. It is not appropriate for generic advice to affect an individual entrepreneur in such a way that he will feel a disproportionate effect of the legislation. Moreover, the opinion of the Council of State and the Geurts motion improved the regulation. That's what I'm saying. Recently we have received figures from CBS, among others, which show that a significant reduction in the amount of phosphate has now been achieved. It is now a matter of several million kilograms. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to give you the latest state of play. In fact, we understand that this figure is now very close to what Brussels is asking us to do, apart from the potentially negative effects of the ruling of the Supreme Court if it means that more phosphate rights should be granted to others. We wonder if the picture is true that we are close to the border that Brussels Netherlands has told us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u7	I'm trying to follow the colleague. He has called for attention to be paid to appeals. I took a look, but the letter of 12 May states this in the last paragraph, namely that it is possible to appeal to the RVO. I find it somewhat at odds with the request for a binding opinion from the emergency committee. What about legal? A binding advice and appeal? How does Mr Atsma see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u8	If it is a binding opinion, and you disagree with the opinion, then it is logical that you can appeal against the opinion. That seems perfectly clear to me. But if you do one thing and leave the other, you won't get there. In any case, it would make the position of the Secretary of State much easier if the committee set up by him could deliver a binding opinion on a number of specific issues which we call 'faults'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u9	I try to follow it, but a binding opinion restricts the discretion of the Secretary of State to decide, especially when it comes to customization. That is what Mr Atsma asked for in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u10	One doesn't rule out the other. In fact, one strengthens the other. If the Secretary of State uses his discretion, he does it because he wants to deliver customization. If the committee gives a clear opinion, then the Secretary of State has every opportunity to follow that. This is much better than when the advice is voluntary and not aimed at the individual case. I started with this: let us make sure that there is also a piece of customisation possible. I take from the legal text that this is not excluded. I can only understand from the explanatory statement that this is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u11	A binding advice and giving space, there is some tension. I await Mr Atsma's speech and the statement made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u12	A binding opinion seems quite clear to me. It also seems obvious to me that, if you disagree, you should be able to appeal. The binding opinion only makes sense if you are willing to go along with it. I think this would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mr Atsma asks for tailor-made solutions to the problem, but wasn't it the Secretary of State who has prevented this so far? That is also stated in the court's ruling, namely that he did not want to include the group of dairy farmers in the problem regulation because this would lead to demarcation problems. Mr Atsma therefore asks the Secretary of State to move on this point. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u14	Yeah, that's right. That's what I started. That space is in the law. I have already indicated that due to the legal treatment in the House of Representatives, we see a little more stretching in our eyes. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. The buy-back scheme, as it has been published, however harsh, has proved to be a great success. Within a short period of time there appeared to be so much interest that the amount made available was used. The question is whether or not it has been put in other terms, but it is going to be asked in other terms as to the extent to which it has achieved its own horizon by means of a buy-back scheme. We can imagine that there will be more room for manoeuvre in the second and third instalments, as far as possible. The Secretary of State states that the transport track is important. We share his view. We have also taken this element widely into account in our assessment of the overall package. At the questions of GroenLinks, the Secretary of State speaks about a legal arrangement for further securing the transport track. Does this happen at the request of the European Commission? What exactly does this mean? Does this mean that less phosphorus per kilogram of feed should be allowed? If that is the case, how does this relate to the European playing field that the Dutch entrepreneur has to deal with? I assume that everything that is happening on this point will have an immediate effect on the European Union. We do not hear much about the possibilities of manure processing. The same applies to the reaction to the feed manure contracts in the Geurts amendment in the House of Representatives. I would also like to hear the Secretary of State about this. This also applies to a further explanation of the pleas about the cycle in the Lower House. It is also quiet about that. The Secretary of State rightly considers derogation to be important, agricultural, environmental and business-economic. In short, derogation is important in many areas. It would be good if this Chamber also looked at these two legislative proposals from that perspective and also at the phosphate reduction plan 2017. In the end, we are very much in favour of retaining the derogation. This also means, in our view, that if this were not the case, the law would not have to come into force. In this sense, we are well aware of the amendment tabled by Mr Lodders in respect of item No. 50, which actually states that the law does not have to apply if the derogation is not granted. What does this actually mean for the entry into force of the law? The European Commission's assessment is awaited, as no timetable has been set for the decision-making of derogations so far. Is the Secretary of State waiting for the European Commission's opinion, or is it a chicken or egg story, and is the Commission waiting for legislation to be introduced in the Netherlands at any time? We are curious how this is going to develop. We all know that the Nitrates Directive in Brussels determines the phosphate space. The interpretation of that directive is different in a number of European Member States. In a different context, this has been exchanged more often with the cabinet. The Secretary of State understands this, but is it right that the interpretation of the Nitrates Directive is different? Doesn't that lead to a form of arbitrariness that doesn't always suit us? I'm just saying it in my own words. I wonder why the Secretary of State thinks it is understandable that the interpretation is different. I don't know how to interpret it. In the note following the report, the Secretary of State makes it clear that it is not yet known when the Nitrate Committee meets. I think that, in the light of the previous comments on derogation, it is important that we clarify this quickly. I wonder if the Secretary of State can now tell us what the timetable is and what he himself is doing about it. I would now like to make a few comments on the so-called POR scheme for the pig and poultry sector. In the context of the preparation of the legislation we are discussing today, it has been announced that it will be deleted. I understand that the Secretary of State has now informed the House of Representatives that he will be returning to questions from various parliamentary groups next autumn. So I'm gonna leave that point for what it is. It has been pointed out on several fronts that the bill concerns the phosphate production of all dairy cows. No distinction is made according to how you run your business: common, organic or biological-dynamic. We are following the reasoning of the Secretary of State on this point. There is, however, a distinction between ground-boundness and non-ground-boundity. We can follow him there too. Is the introduction of the phosphate rights system a form of expropriation? We have asked this question before, and I have the impression that the Secretary of State is not entirely in line with the ECHR and the Council of State's opinion. Would the Secretary of State be able to explain that understanding again? In our view, he is concerned with the regulation of property. Speaking of phosphate rights, we think it is right that it should become a negotiable system. We have not been able to find anything on the tax depreciation possibilities of phosphate rights, which should logically be linked to a means of production. Where there is an evaluation clause in the law, I believe that the phosphate rights system could be finite. At some point there will be an alternative or another system. Then it is good to better define the element of depreciation in the tax sense. In this sense, we are curious about the tax authorities' view on this. As far as we are concerned, that is an unmistakable part of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr Atsma referred to the 'complaint committee', to name but a few. That committee was set up by an amendment tabled by Mr Geurts and by Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union across the street. The advisory role of that committee should take into account the consequences of the extension of the emergency provision for other dairy farmers. In other words, when that committee comes up with something that changes troubles, it will have to be brought up by others. Does Mr Atsma see possibilities for extending the derogation or phosphate rights, so that the advantage of one dairy farmer is not passed on to other dairy farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u16	We sometimes refer to what Mr Schalk describes as a so-called waterbed. Maybe in this case you should talk about a "milk bed" where what one gets is extra handed in by the other. At least that is how I understand Mr Schalk. That is one of the concerns with regard to the decisions of the court of Appeal in appeal cases, if this is not adjusted. Anything that needs to be surrendered should then be increased by others, because we have all agreed that we must reach that European ceiling. In that sense, Mr Schalk is right. Some of the skimmed rights end up in the phosphate bank. The emergency committee might be able to draw from that phosphate bank in order to help the troubles. The negative effect, if I may put it that way, may be kept to a minimum. I would like to know what the Secretary of State thinks of that line and whether that is feasible at all. It would seem like a passable road to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u17	With Mr Atsma, I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State will say about that. You could say there's two tracks. The Commission is about to issue an opinion that could affect that milkbed or waterbed or whatever we want to call it. The judge can also give a lot of judgments, which also have consequences. Those all found on that same waterbed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u18	That's a trade-off the judge's gonna have to make. We are not here to judge that. It is, however, a fact that, when too many cases are brought before the courts and those involved in all these cases are called into question, additional room will have to be created to comply with the European phosphate standard when it comes to production. If that is not the case, all the judgments made by the judge will have the effect of jeopardising the derogation in domestic terms. Then the whole of the Netherlands is a bottleneck. That is something that I hope will be taken into consideration when it is assessed overall. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on that. It's kind of a weird dilemma that you're trying to help one, but as a result you risk making keeping and running a dairy farm virtually impossible in the present way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u19	The key question is then the following. Mr Atsma mentioned the concerns, but we are talking about the survival or not of many farmers. As far as I am concerned, it is not just a matter of concern; it is much heavier than that. The question is: do you want to pass a law that will bankrupt farmers on one side or on the other side of the milkbed? Does the CDA want to pass such a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u20	The Netherlands is one of the most prominent countries in the world when it comes to dairy farming and dairying. Together, we have the objective of giving this sector a full perspective. That is also the Secretary of State's commitment to the package of laws he has submitted to us. We have made agreements with the Member States of Europe which we have to abide by. The sector and the entrepreneurs know that too. It is not for nothing that NMV, LTO, NAJK, NZO and the dairy sector in general have joined forces to tackle this problem. They have tried together, shoulder to shoulder with the Ministry, to find a solution to prevent worse. Those agreements have been made internationally. The Netherlands, and the Dutch sector, have signed it. We can pretend not to, but that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u21	Do you know of any other EU countries that have not complied with treaties? What were the consequences from Brussels? In other words, do the interests of our own farmers not now outweigh the European interests or the European directives imposed on us from Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u22	I certainly know many examples of countries and companies that have had to justify themselves because they have not complied with international agreements, either by means of a penalty payment or by other means. We do not want to risk this beautiful sector with some 20,000 entrepreneurs. This applies not only to the dairy sector but also to the dairy sector. We have enough arguments to do everything we can to ensure that this European standard is met. I am actually quite proud of the fact that we have apparently been able, within six months, to get back very close to meeting the conditions. We must also take into account the causes of this. How did the dairy herd grow so fast? There is only one important reason: the abolition of the milk quota. We have all said yes to this. I think I remember that not all the groups were unanimous about this, but this is the consequence of that. We did one and didn't intervene fast enough to prevent another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u23	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u24	My last question. That's just it: those were government rules. Those entrepreneurs have joined the government rules and now the water is standing, or perhaps I should say: the milk, they are on the lips. The question is whether you choose the confrontation with Brussels or the confrontation with hardworking Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u25	We stand shoulder to shoulder with heart-working Netherlands and so does Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u26	I have a question about the problem regulation. It is very limited in the current legislative proposal. Some room has been created by Mr Geurts' amendment, but that room is still uncertain, because there must be a committee to advise. So far I have also heard the Secretary of State say in the Lower House: it must be very limited. My impression is that the Secretary of State does not give any additional phosphate space to allow for a genuine extension of this problem regulation. My question is how you see it. Do you indeed say that there needs to be more phosphate space in order to really respond to the problems that are currently being proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u27	As I said, the CDA Group also believes that there should be more room for tailor-made solutions. Whether "to offer customisation" means that by definition more phosphate space needs to be created, let me take a moment in the middle. That doesn't necessarily have to be the same thing. There may also be other solutions. I also referred to the success of the buy-back scheme, and to options. There's been a lot of interest in that. Above all, let us ensure that the keepers, who are often innovative and leading companies, keep a strong perspective. If you ask me whether "to offer customisation" means that the Secretary of State must offer more phosphate space, I say yes in full. I said that at first, and I want to conclude with that. At first, the Secretary of State showed himself to be somewhat firm in the doctrine of the limited regime, but I have good hope that the space created by a number of initiatives from the Lower House is actually more possible than perhaps the intention of the Secretary of State initially was. If you learn, you might learn a little bit at this point. The fact that a fat 50 companies have now been agreed by the welfare court, at least in 2017, is, of course, an important signal that something needs to be done. We need to ensure that with it we only have the perspective for the sector as a whole. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my contribution. Let me say one more thing: let us above all ensure that the legal anchoring of everything that is happening now is sufficiently strong to be sustainable. It should go hand in hand with much more than with many other legislation, efficiency and legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mr Atsma. I give the floor to Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr. Chairman. I have to start with a confession. The concept of 'derogation' was completely unknown to me until very recently. In the meantime, I can explain everywhere, even unsolicited, what it actually means, namely that it is a legal-technical term within the framework of the European Union, which allows a strictly defined level of exceedance of a standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u30	It's legally a well-known term for centuries anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u31	It was also in my old Latin dictionary, so it already existed, but I didn't know. In any case, it appears that Dutch farmers above the European standard can produce quite a lot more kilos of phosphate, but the problem is that these Dutch farmers individually have proved to be such good entrepreneurs that they have collectively crossed the limits of the derogation in the shortest possible time. The current derogation regime runs until this year and, as is now well known, it will be very dangerous if the Netherlands does not quickly reduce its phosphate production to the ceiling of nearly 173 million kilos per year. The CBS's forecast for 2017 even shows a phosphate production of almost 180 million kilos. In other words, and only taking into account the dairy herd in the Netherlands: the current phosphate production shows that the Netherlands is now in fact over 160,000 cows compared to the derogation. Without a derogation, which is a point that hangs over the market and casts a heavy shadow, there should be as many as 300,000 or more cows. Then we'll talk about about about 20% of our current dairy herd. Those are very sad figures. They show that a derogation is necessary, and now I come to my old dictionary Latino has a second meaning, which may not yet be fully known in legal practice and legislation. In this second sense, derogation is not only about abolishing or restricting a regime, but also about taking it and denying it. It is a bit paradoxical, but in order not to lose the abolition of a restriction, we will have to accept the reduction of too many cows. A very difficult and very painful problem, which has just become very visible in Mr Atsma's contribution. This is certainly a very difficult issue for individual dairy farmers, caused by the abolition of the milk quota. They have tried to give their business an economically better future by expanding stables and livestock, for themselves, but as has become clear from many letters to us, also for the son or daughter who would like to continue the family business. To keep fewer animals in large new stables that have already invested a great deal is a heavy and in some cases a very difficult task which has led to the formulation of "chain number." My colleagues and I have received a lot of desperate letters in recent months from precisely those families and families who no longer know how to proceed with their business after 2017 if the derogation is not granted or if the derogation means that they have to reduce. This applies once again, albeit in a very different way, to farmers working organically. In fact, they do not make any use of the derogation for their business. One of the problems in the Secretary of State's policy is that each farmer has to apply for his own derogation and that the policy is aimed at reducing phosphate production generated by the total. That tension keeps coming back and it leads to a number of troubles. Then there are also the farms where rare or rare breeds such as the sheetfielders or the blister heads are protected from extinction. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has been able to make an exception for them for this year, but the question remains what guarantees can be given that even in 2018 and later, the terms of production that do not or hardly touch these companies can be kept from them formally. I would like to hear later that the Secretary of State will be able to reassure these farmers for the future. The question remains, however, how can it be that after the abolition of the milk quota it became so quickly a 'free for all' and that it remained so long? Isn't there any attention? Didn't they want to pay attention? Was there no one who saw the acceleration in the direction of an overrun coming? Or was everyone so naive to think it would take a long time? How is it possible that this is a second question which I would like to put to the Secretary of State - that it was only at such a late hour in Brussels that the message came out that the derogation could really be at risk? We would very much like to know how things could have gone so wrong twice, but in order to do it better in the future, we are discussing today two legislative proposals that are closely linked and should be able to prevent this type of problem in the future: the Law on soil-based growth dairy farming and the amendment of the Fertilisers Act in connection with the introduction of a phosphate rights system. However, the current discussion focuses mainly on the Phosphate Reduction Plan 2017, which aims to create a basis for the proper implementation of the two new laws. The basis for this is, in fact, a return to the derogation. This seems to be a very difficult road, which must also be taken in a short time, namely this year. Many publications assume that the retreat to the limits of the derogation guarantees a continuation of the derogation for 2018 and beyond. I have noticed that in the various documents, the cabinet is a little more cautious and cautious about this. Can the Secretary of State give the Chamber a little more clarity today about what has been agreed with the European Commission on the future and on any commitments made by the Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u32	Mr Schnabel shares my conclusion that the 2017 arrangement is the basis for 2018...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u33	...and the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u34	And next years, that goes without saying. How's he gonna see that if these lawsuits are still going on? The Secretary of State appeals, but the judge has said from a number of categories of companies that it is unreasonable and unfair for them to be cut short, just as briefly. But how can we adopt a scheme for 2018 if we don't know what the basis is in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u35	You're there to outline one of the questions I have. I would almost think that you had already understood my text, as we are sitting next to each other in two rooms! That is not the case, of course, but this will be dealt with in my speech. You are noticing a problem that affects the whole debate on derogation. From day to day, there are new developments that put pressure on the current situation of the phosphate reduction plan and immediately raise the question of what it will mean for the implementation of the phosphate rights system. The position of the Secretary of State, who will have to explain it to you himself, is that legislative proposals setting out how the system is going to work are separate from the plan he is now making. This plan must be adapted quickly to the new situation. And how will the lawsuits be, of which more are to be expected? You were also at the expert meeting. There the Professor of Agricultural Law, who is also a lawyer, grinfully said: I expect a lot of things. That seems to be happening, too. What are the consequences of this, I think you should ask the Secretary of State later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u36	In my view, it is our job to offer these lawyers as little work as possible if we adopt legislation here. Maybe I'm a little impatient, but can you give me a hint of the veil and tell me what conclusion you're leaning towards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u37	No, I'm not gonna light up veils in advance! However, I note that until now, as a Chamber, we have never seen a letter or a position of the European Commission itself or of the Commissioner for Agriculture. Is there such a piece? If so, can we be informed? How firm are the Brussels commitments or suggestions that the derogation is secured if all the plans envisaged by the Secretary of State are implemented? I think it is very important for the farmers, but also for the lawyers, the banks and all the other parties involved, to know what the future will look like. In fact, I'm also asking the Secretary of State if we have a plan B. What happens if we fail to reach the limits of the derogation this year? In previous discussions, several points have already been raised as to why this might be the case. And what happens if the Commission does not want to grant the Netherlands a further derogation? What does this mean in concrete terms for the Dutch dairy sector and for government policy in this area? That brings me to the point that Mr Dercksen has just raised: what does this mean for the phosphate rights system? Should account be taken of the possibility that the Commission would like to grant the Netherlands the derogation, but that other countries would oppose it? Is that a possibility? Is derogation in fact a right if the requirements are met, or is it entirely for the discretion of the Commission? The latter means that it is also open to discussion at international level. In the meantime, the phosphate reduction plan 2017 has already entered into force. The first reports of the CBS show that progress is being made fairly quickly. The plan is to reduce phosphate production by 8.2 million kilos this year by and for the dairy sector, in which animal feed farms also play an important role. In 2017, according to the CBS forecasts, the sector would produce almost 96 million kilos of phosphate without the reduction, well above the reduction ceiling. The adaptation of the composition of the feed has now been achieved and the possibility of subsidies for cessation of farming has been used so widely that the registration had to be closed on the first day. In the meantime, some 500 companies have applied for closure. Thus, half of the intended number of livestock units, as the technical term implies, has been notified of a total of 60 000. On the basis of the interest in the first tranche, which is thus much larger than these 500 companies, is there any picture of the number of applications still to be expected for the subsequent tranches? If this figure exceeds the amount currently available, will additional resources be made available to enable more farmers to cease their farms? I also ask this question because it is by no means possible that the target reduction of 8.2 million kilos of phosphate will not be achieved in 2017. That is a matter of concern to me, since we are already in the second half of May. The CBS itself points that out in the prognosis it has released, a bit implicit. Unlike the Secretary of State, the CBS assumes that other members of the Dutch livestock will also show an increase in phosphate production of 1.2 million kilos. The dairy sector ceiling has been set at 84.9 million kilos per year, while since 1 January CBS expects it to be 95.6 million kilos in 2017 if nothing is done. The CBS assumes that the reduction plan could reach 89.9 million kilos. That can improve and maybe it will. I hope the Secretary of State can give us some information on that. Mr Atsma just asked for that. But even if it improves, in order not to exceed the national production ceiling of 172.9 million kilos for phosphate, I believe that calculations still require an additional reduction on top of the 8.2 million set by the Secretary of State. Perhaps an additional 6 to 7 million kilos is needed and we need to reduce a total of around 12 million kilos in order to reach the figures provided for in the phosphate reduction plan for the derogation. It's a rather complicated kind of calculation, but you can see that more phosphate is produced than expected in the predictions. At least that is what the CBS is now showing. The reduction seems to be somewhat difficult and other farms, farms with goats, pigs, chickens and so on, are producing more phosphate than was anticipated. If you put all that together, you're going to be a much higher number than that 8.2 million. I would ask the Secretary of State to study this and to inform us about the consequences for the derogation if it is not possible to return to the national phosphate production ceiling this year. Maybe we'll even need a plan C. I'm sorry I have to make things a little harder. Achieving a reduction of 8 or perhaps even 12 million kilos is currently being made quite difficult by the adjustments to the reduction plan which the Secretary of State has had to make on a number of occasions. See also his detailed letter of 12 May, announcing adjustments to six or seven points. Very recently, he has made adjustments to protect the rare breeds and to create a new basis for calculating the young cattle number. Of course, account must also be taken of the ruling of the Court of Justice, which has already excluded 52 companies from the reduction plan. There have already been reports that this number may eventually reach more than 500. The sources are somewhat unclear; it was not the professor-lawyer who could have an interest in this. The Secretary of State has announced that he will appeal against the judge's ruling, but that does not necessarily mean that the court will decide in his favour. My group would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to the fact that at least the decision of the Court of Justice in the case of the dairy farmers concerned already means that they do not have to reduce their livestock. Conversely, it also means that the reduction, which still needs to be achieved, is borne by a smaller number of dairy farmers and that their individual contribution to the reduction is accordingly increased. This will undoubtedly lead to new troubles. This certainly reduces the chance that the reduction plan can be completed in 2017. I am pleased that last week the Secretary of State was able to inform us of the institution and staffing of the Advisory Committee on Phosphate Control. The committee, under the leadership of former Secretary-General of Agriculture Chris Kalden, seems to me to be an excellent choice for this committee, which has been given a difficult and partly internally contradictory task. That's what we've been referring to just now. The commission's assignments, as described in the letter of the Secretary of State, are rather difficult to reconcile: a general ruling based on individual casusism and in the unlikely short period of five to six weeks from now. In view of the comments made by the Secretary of State in the written rounds before this debate, I hope that the committee will also, in the context of the fourth point, consider in its mandate the possible changes that the introduction of the phosphate rights system could entail for the governance of dairy farms. Especially where business transfer means reducing phosphate rights, avoidance structures must be taken into account. The Secretary of State himself has already noted this in the answer to questions, but he has no solution to them. At least he hasn't given it yet. Given the complexity of the issues in this area, I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State that we should at least start with the committee a little more time for her difficult task. It would be very real not to ask for an opinion from the committee on 1 July, but on 1 September. The committee may not be on holiday, but that will give it the opportunity to answer the difficult questions put to it by the Secretary of State. Of course, we are also very interested in the opinion or the opinions of the committee. If I have read the letter of 12 May correctly, the Committee's opinion does not refer to the phosphate reduction plan, but only to the phosphate rights system, i.e. to the situation that will enter into force on 1 January 2018, at least if this Chamber decides positively on the legislative proposal. I think it is very important for the troubles, the farmers and the sector to know that it is not about the phosphate reduction plan, but about the phosphate rights system. In his policy, the Secretary of State assumes the modality that the acceptance of the phosphate rights system is closely linked to the likelihood of continuation of the derogation. It is the intention of the Secretary of State to return to the derogation level applicable to the Netherlands before the introduction of the phosphate rights system. Could this be sufficient reason for the European Commission to grant a further derogation to the Netherlands even without a phosphate right system? So we can do it, simply put. Would that be enough for the European Commission to say: then you do not have to introduce that complicated system with that bank and all these other situations at all? Suppose we put the phosphate rights system into effect, but the derogation is not continued. Is the Netherlands then obliged to introduce a much stricter phosphate rights system, much more far-reaching than under the current legislation, because we will then have to meet much lower phosphate production requirements? The answer given by the Secretary of State to these questions will play an important role for my group in our decision-making on the phosphate rights system. There is a kind of ideal image of dairy farming in the 21st century. That's the land-based family farm with grazing pastures for the cattle, not for the family; you shouldn't misunderstand that and if it can be a business on a biological basis. The first is ultimately easier to achieve than the second. It is therefore all the more regrettable that at present, in all discussions, the volume of total phosphate emissions seems to be the only agent to guarantee soil density without any further consideration of sustainability, biological management or continuity of a farm. The agricultural sector is of great economic importance to the Netherlands: 80 billion euros export value, we are the world's second agricultural exporter in size and money. The agricultural sector largely determines our landscape. Not everyone likes that, but it's part of our environment. For many people in the Netherlands it is also a characteristic part of our national identity. That is one of the reasons why we would like to continue to see the grazing run, while the efficiency of business might make a completely different structure desirable. It is important that we realise that we are in the sphere of resources in the case of phosphate emissions and not in the area of targets. It is ultimately about the quality of the environment, the quality of our environment and the sustainability of a sector that is very important for our food production and for the preservation and possibly the disadvantage of our environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u38	I very much agree with Mr Schnabel that dairy farming has put an important stamp on our landscape, but also that the landscape is changing dramatically at the moment with monotonous rai grass fields and fewer and fewer cows in the meadow. Mr Schnabel said that it would be preferable for more cows to enter the pasture, but that this might not be easy to combine with efficient management. Would he feel like linking the phosphate reduction plan to a mandatory grazing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u39	If you add the word "mandatory," I'm starting to flinch. In the written round of questions, when it was also about the report on sustainable livestock farming, we also asked very specific questions. We lacked the connection between that report and the points it identified, the reaction of the Secretary of State to it and the phosphate rights system. That was a bit of a disappointment. I would have liked him to link that whole story of the phosphate rights system more closely to the ultimate goal, namely better quality on all fronts: the environment, the subsurface, groundwater and so on, but also the way in which you shape the agricultural sector in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u40	I understand that disappointment, but it should lead to something. At the moment, a thousand dairy farmers are stopping their family farms, small farms, while megas are being built where cows are stabled year round. If we don't do something, that development will continue. Rabobank says that it is even possible that this year 10% of all agricultural family farms will stop. You are a bit back for the word "obligatory," but how do you intend to make it happen without such an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u41	I hope that it will be possible to give policy a slightly different shape in the future than more of the same from the past. This has been very successful in economic terms and production terms. What a Dutch cow produces in milk almost borders the perverse: more than ten liters a day. You can hardly imagine what that means, compared to the historical image of the cow, where the cow comes from and how many liters were produced at that time. I do not have the opportunity at the moment to say much about it, other than to encourage it and hope that it will go in that direction and, unlike my disappointment, that we do not yet see the connection made in the notes, which is also advocated in the context of thinking about sustainable livestock farming, in the policy of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u42	I would like to continue with Mr Schnabel on the marketability of these rights. What he says is very nice, of course, that we want the cow in the meadow and the like. If you make phosphate rights negotiable, they can of course end up with the highest bidder. That's obvious. How would he feel about giving this priority, as it were, to farmers who contribute to the objectives we set ourselves, namely cow in pasture, sustainability, organic and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u43	I find the thought itself very sympathetic, given the purpose. However, I understand from the explanations we have received in the previous round of questions and in previous consultations that it is very difficult, legally, also in view of European regulations, to organise things in this way from the government. I heard a very important statement from the Rabobank at the expert meeting. He said: of course we are going to finance those phosphate rights, but we are thinking of doing it in such a way that it does not go sky high by saying that it will have to be repaid in five or ten years at the latest. I asked the Secretary of State about that at the time. Of course, he thinks that it is up to the banks and the farmers to discuss this. I think this is a method of ensuring that the additional burden that can be assumed does not mean that the amount of duty, which is probably relatively small, will be available in the first instance, when it comes to the phosphate right system... It's not distributed from the bank. It flows back to the bank at some point, initially in small quantities. The question is how it will proceed and how it will be divided. There are some vague clues. Perhaps you should ask the Secretary of State if he can tell us more about this, Mrs Meijer. They are again of those things that are too little worked out in the pieces as far as I am concerned to be clear enough. The question is, what exactly are you supposed to imagine? How's that gonna work? So I don't think I can make you very happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u44	The profitability or solvency of a company does not, of course, mean anything about the way in which it operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u45	Well, back to reasoning, of course. If things don't go well, then by definition, business management is also not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u46	I am quite prepared to ask the Secretary of State to set such a system of non-negotiable rights aside for us in a moment. I hope you will support me, Mr Schnabel. Can I count on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u47	I can feel a motion coming. I'm just as careful with that, if you don't mind. I'm gonna have to think about it, too. I assume the Secretary of State has heard all this and that he can light us up that little tip of his veil that's a bit of a weird image of this or a hint of that veil for us. Finally, I would like to make a plea for a link with the revision that is now needed. We are, of course, faced with a choice between two evils. You actually have no choice but to go along with this, because not going along probably has very nasty consequences for Dutch livestock farming and therefore also for the Dutch economy. However, we also want to see issues such as sustainability, animal welfare and quality in policy taking on more shape, much more than is currently the case. I do think that the disappearance of the milk quota and its failure to respond to it have made it clear that the market really needs a market leader and the sector needs a director. It really needs to be able to do more than correct what went wrong. This is, after all, an ex-post intervention on developments which should have been anticipated in advance and which should not have been facilitated. I am well aware that the times of a dairy production are over. However, the tasks involved are not really for this sector. That may well be seen, I added this this morning as a point of attention in the second run-up to a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. In the eighties of the last century I worked at a primary school in Berkenwoude, a village in the Krimpenerwaard. In my class, there were peasants' children. They were shocked because a milk quota was introduced. In that small community, this was very profound. One farmer after another hung the harp on the willows. However far-reaching, 30 years later, the milk quota had become the status quo. Everyone knew what he was up to. You could invest for more quota or you had some kind of pension when you sold your quota. Until the milk quotas were released on 1 April 2015, i.e. retirement away or apple for the thirst away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u49	I think it's good to make three sounds in a few sentences. It was a great sadness when the quota arrived, then it is a blessing that it is there and then it is a sadness that the quotas disappear. If you look back on the situation, are you for or against that dairy quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u50	Indeed, in three sentences I have sketched that changing position. When it got there, I was a schoolmaster. I looked at it with surprised eyes and thought: of course you shouldn't want to. Once it existed for 20 or 30 years, the farmers didn't know better if it was. The question is not, therefore, whether my position has changed completely. The status quo, as I called it, was that everyone knew where he was going. When that was suddenly lifted, at least my group was not in favour of it, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u51	Fine. Then I know how you stand in it. In retrospect, it was a nice system. Would that perhaps be possible to anticipate a little bit of your argument, which also applies to phosphate rights, that you first become a bit wild and later think that it is useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u52	It may well be that at some point, after 20 or 30 years, it can be said: I do not know if it was useful, but the status quo clearly indicates the position. That is what I meant to say rather than that the milk quota was a good idea or a bad idea. I'm trying to say more that after 30 years, at least there was a status quo where people could get away with it. In fact, they had to. We will undoubtedly see this in the future, if the phosphate system continues, in the case of farmers affected by it. In any case, for a lot of farmers, the moment when milk quotas were abolished was the signal that there was again room to grow livestock for the future without investment in quotas. Then, of course, we think mainly of family farms where the desire of several children was to go farmers. Now it was even encouraged to invest in stables, in milking systems or in land. It was foreseen that milk production would grow, hoping that the phosphate ceiling would not be exceeded. It was impossible for individual farmers to deal with this because they cannot have any idea of the whole. The moment the milk quotas were released, it was for them to choose the future. However, that idylle was brutally disturbed when Secretary of State Dijksma announced on 2 July 2015 a new ceiling: phosphate rights. For a lot of farmers a slap. Whatever choice a farmer made, cut or grow, every farmer was in the ship. If you actually wanted to stop or go on quietly, your piggy bank was taken away from milk quotas. If you wanted to grow, your investment was destroyed. Does the Secretary of State share this analysis? Then I haven't talked about the procedure yet. When the button was converted on 2 July 2015, there was not even a legislative proposal. There wasn't after a few months and not even after a year. Subsequently, the bill was not able to apply for 2017 due to miscommunications with Brussels, and a reduction plan had to be drawn up, a plan which is still being continually amended. Brussels and the Nitrates Committee particularly blame the Netherlands for the fact that phosphate in surface water is still a major problem, but this is still about the Nitrates Directive, which, in its provision, is limited to nitrate? Because nitrate is difficult to measure, the whole is now suspended from phosphate. It's a lot easier to measure. But the goal is first of all to improve water quality, isn't it? In this context, the scope of the derogation is not a problem. Without a derogation, there is a risk that farms will convert grassland into the much more prone maize land. Water quality therefore does not require production ceilings or production rights under the derogation. It is perhaps a different story when it comes to the manure market and water quality in general, but then the production ceilings do not belong in the derogation decision but in the action programme. Summary: Is the derogation a danger? No, on the contrary. However, it is under discussion. Can you direct a phosphate ceiling and phosphate rights directly to water quality? No. Yet this is the talk of the day and gives businesses the biggest problems. My group would like to see the problem addressed at source. Why is the Secretary of State not committed to a reform of the action programme for 2018 with a much more area-oriented approach, possibly production ceilings and also a derogation? The production ceilings will then be integrated into the action programme and will no longer be available separately. Moreover, the derogation will then receive the substantive assessment it deserves. As far as phosphate rights are concerned, the First Chamber must consider legality, feasibility and enforcement. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, legality is still far from being achieved. I would like to point that out on the basis of two points. First of all, this is the choice for a single reference date, July 2, 2015. This snapshot has very profound consequences and does not do justice to the desired representative distribution of rights. Think of companies that for some reason had to do with disease or renovation and therefore had fewer cattle. Or think of companies that spend a number of months in the summer and now have no rights at all. Why did they choose that one date? Is it not much fairer and more representative to take a period or to choose a number of reference dates, divided over the year? Why, for example, could it have been during the introduction of pig rights and suddenly not now? The Secretary of State states that companies that have traded young cattle must make arrangements with the companies that have been granted these young cattle rights. Does the Secretary of State really think it can be arranged so easily? Isn't it the responsibility of the government to regulate this? The second point is the problem regulation. It is now limited to farms where on 2 July 2015 there were demonstrably fewer dairy cows, including as a result of farmer's disease, an animal disease or a few other cases, which will therefore only be partially compensated. It is very good in itself that this has been taken into account, but is that enough? After all, there is an important group of companies to which this scheme does not apply. These are, on the contrary, progressive farmers who want to carry on with their business, have made irreversible investments in, for example, new stables and now have the stables empty. They have irreversible financial obligations, which are now hanging around the neck like a millstone. Is that fair? After all, this is an excessive burden. Under European law, Article 1, First Protocol, is the Secretary of State still obliged to prevent or compensate for this? In this context, I would also refer to the court's recent ruling on the phosphate reduction scheme, which has a similar problem regime. What possibility does the government now see of meeting this group? Wasn't the bottleneck scheme set up by the Restructuring Law for pig farming not much wider at the time? Why is this being done differently now? Can the target date be filled in more broadly, not only by looking at how many cattle there was on 2 July 2015, but also what irreversible financial obligations there are that can be identified as having to do with the supposed space? There will be an advisory committee, but what willingness is there to really do something about it? Does the Secretary of State really want to broaden the bottleneck regime? And if so, at what time? Can the 2017 regime also be adapted to this? Is it going to be July 1st, or is that impossible? How do we prevent us from agreeing to the law now when we do not know how a large number of farmers are affected? In short, I would very much like a detailed explanation from the Secretary of State on this very point. Then there are the feasibility and enforcement. I'm gonna take a look at the phosphate chamber. Why isn't the Secretary of State looking for more phosphate? The phosphate ceiling is a generic arrangement. This now applies to the total phosphate production in the Netherlands over the width of the livestock, divided between dairy farming, pig farming, the poultry sector and the other sectors. Does the Secretary of State now or in the future see opportunities to move between themselves or to allow for buying-in arrangements between the different sectors? In the other sectors, phosphate production has fallen by 3 million kilos since 2002. Would the Secretary of State like to use this space for dairy farming? Farmers have also invested a lot in converting cow manure into phosphate grains. These grains are exported to countries where there is a significant lack of phosphate. So that exported phosphate does not end up in our surface water at all. Then why does it still have to be taken into account in total phosphate production? Is it not reasonable and realistic to negotiate in Brussels that only phosphate used in the Netherlands is included in the phosphate ceiling? In the Netherlands, this means a solution to the huge problem of healthy cattle slaughter and prevents them from getting into trouble. Does the Secretary of State also refer to the non-counting of this export for the phosphate ceiling for the Sixth Nuclear Action Programme? There is one more point that my group has put in its throat. This concerns in particular the 10% reduction in the sale of phosphate rights outside the family. That is actually a form of expropriation, because every sale takes away part of the rights. It already starts with a generic discount of perhaps 10% on the amount of phosphate at the measuring date. The generic discount and the transfer discount represent at least the regulation of property rights within the meaning of Article 1, First Protocol ECHR. The support of proportionality and proportionality is passed on to the General Measure of Governance. You can't just do that, can you? The Council of State also criticises this point. According to Article 1, which I mentioned earlier, regulation of property is only justified if there is a general interest and if there is a fair balance between the requirements of the general interest and the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual. This is where things go wrong. Is a generic discount justified if the government does not make a serious effort to create more phosphate space? And is a 10% skim on transfer justified if phosphate production is already below the phosphate ceiling at the start of the law? Maybe this is the crux for my group. A phosphate ceiling is so far, but at least ensure that there is a large bottleneck control and more phosphate space. In this respect, I am very curious about the government's position. I would therefore like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. The next item is the debate on two laws, one of which has a significant impact on dairy farming in the Netherlands. I would like to say a few words about the law on land-based growth in dairy farming: this law has the full support of my group. The law contains little more than converting an AMvB into a regular law. This conversion was already promised by the Secretary of State at the request of the Supreme Court at the time of the examination of the AMvB. There is a correction here on state-law grounds. I would like to stress that it is important that AMvBs do not have the character of a regular law and then pass laws into framework laws that regulate little more content. The VVD Group assumes that the present transformation is a reflection of the bending of the above trend. I come to the amendment of the Fertilisers Act. It is a question of introducing a system of phosphate rights, a system which should restrict manure production in the dairy sector. In fact, this system quotes the number of dairy cows. Fortunately, not per farm or per hectare; the marketability of the primary sector maintains the dynamics. That is a good thing, but I will come back to that. All this is contained in a number of general considerations relating to this system and the reasons for it. In the written round, the VVD Group had already expressed its support for the legislative amendment proposal. Such a system, following the abolition of the dairy quota system and the subsequent growth of the dairy herd, is currently the only manageable route to achieve balance in the production and use of manure in this sector. It is inevitable that, because of a balanced manure balance, the dairy herd should be reduced. In any case, the derogation must be safeguarded. The financial consequences of their disappearance are far too great. The VVD Group is confident that the Dutch Government will continue to convince the European Commission of this track. The production area that creates the derogation is justified, given the productivity of fodder growing in the Netherlands. This productivity allows for a larger manure dose. The point of this should not be too cynical by gloomy ecologists or politicians. A large organic fertilization corresponds to another urgency, one for the longer term. The key to productive and sustainable agriculture is good soil fertility, a good ratio of air, water and organic matter in a soil of sand and clay. Soil fertility is under pressure. The fight against this bottleneck again requires a large administration of organic material, including animal manure. It should be avoided that animal manure is unnecessarily replaced by fertilizer, an alternative that ensures the nutrient yield, but at the expense of soil fertility in the broad sense. I would like to hear a comment from the Secretary of State on this. The phosphate rights system is, as it were, imposed on the sector by abolishing the dairy quota system. Many, including dairy farmers, considered this to be a liberation, namely the disappearance of a bureaucratic and cost-increasing system in favour of free market forces. Personally, I haven't experienced this. Quoting regulated balance on the dairy market. Opponents of this system forgot that liberation could lead to an attack on the environmental boundary conditions in which Dutch livestock farming must operate. The rapid expansion of the dairy herd has made it clear that these conditions have become tense. Now the number of dairy cows should not be overdramatic. This figure is still considerably lower than that at the time of the introduction of the quota. This is largely due to the increase in productivity of Dutch dairy cows. The number of animals is expected to decrease further. The quality of surface and ground water needs to be improved. This isn't a discussion. The sharp standards must be met. But this too should not be done too dramatically. Water quality has improved considerably in recent decades. This does not alter the fact that more is needed and that the agricultural sector must contribute to this. As has already been said, the system of phosphate rights is now the most appropriate instrument for this purpose. This is recognised by the whole sector, as is apparent from the agreement concluded for this purpose and hence from the cooperation of all sectors in this sector. This does not alter the fact that the bureaucratic squeeze in which the agricultural sector is caught is being re-enforced. In this sense, the system of phosphate rights also gives thought. The VVD Group welcomes the fact that, in the broadest sense, the sector has taken up the challenge of reducing livestock and translated it into an agreement that also adds funding to it. The more self-regulation within the sector, the better. The agricultural sector appears to be well organised and shows resilience. This raises a question for the Secretary of State. Why did he not confine himself to a general statement on a part of this, the phosphate reduction plan, but endorsed this plan by a ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u54	I hear Mr Schaap praises self-regulation. Now it was said in agricultural circles that the phosphate ceiling would certainly not be broken. Self-regulation would prevent that. How does Mr Schaap see that? That's a bit of a slip. Is there an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u55	That explanation is pretty simple. Individual farmers have drawn up their own plans and have invested well for all kinds of reasons. You can find all kinds of things, but it has led to the sum of the whole not being convenient. I would just like to point out that at that time, the industry, including industry, joined forces and also came up with the proposal to reduce livestock. I welcome that. So let us say that the capacity for correction in this sector appears to be quite considerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u56	I don't understand the word "appears" here. Because the sum of all this individual excessive growth has caused the phosphate ceiling to be broken, while the sector said: let it be left to our self-regulation; it is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u57	Then the sector was able to come up with a proposal for a correction itself. So that proves that self-regulation works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u58	Mr Koffeman, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u59	I don't quite understand. Shouldn't self-regulation have a preventive effect? Surely it is not true that when things get out of hand, you can say: 'here is a proposal to reduce it a little bit, and that is why self-regulation works fantastic'? That's a curious idea, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u60	Sometimes things go wrong in life. If you can intervene in that, you testify to the ability to control yourself. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u61	Mr Schaap talks about a well-organised sector and says that the scheme will lead to a lot of dynamism in the sector. If he has received as many e-mails as I have, he has to draw the conclusion that quite a few farmers have a very different view of that. There are quite a few specific parts within the sector that say that the sector is locked up and all these representative organisations are not speaking on our behalf. How does Mr. Schaap indicate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u62	I have hardly heard the latter, but there are a large number of problems as a result of the implementation of the regulation. I think it's obvious that they're looking for their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u63	My question was about that part of the sector that is locked up because of the marketability of the rights, which will only be used by companies with high-production cows. You speak of great dynamism, but only part of the sector will be dynamic. The rest can no longer buy the rights, because they are far too expensive for all those species that you have also seen in the mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u64	If the rights were granted per company, the sector would only have been properly locked up, because then all the dynamism, every opportunity to develop, take out or at least become dependent on government regulation. It is precisely because of marketability that this was the case with the dairy quota that companies can develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u65	What do you think of the fact that within the sector plan the sector has not been prepared to exclude from this system organic farms which are legally sealed under the European regulations and which in fact do not contribute to this problem, because they produce less than 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u66	The principle that the whole sector has been responsible for total phosphate production in the Netherlands has been chosen, so that a solution has to be found together. Exception to this is the obvious problem. That is what the discussion is about. I just heard a few times say that organic farming should be helped in the saddle. Be careful not to let this sector grow too fast, because that immediately leads to a price drop, which is the end of business. This is a small, very slowly developing market, which requires much higher prices for end products. You have to deal with that extremely carefully, so that you don't disturb the market. This can easily be done by oversupply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u67	However, we are now talking about the arrangement that the sector has jointly agreed on. I find it strange that part of the farms, which you know have not contributed to the transfer of the 170 kilograms per hectare standard, think they should participate as well as the rest. I find it strange that the sector has not been prepared to look at who is mainly responsible and who is less responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u68	The sector itself has made a choice on the basis of a certain principle. This approach has been taken up by the Empire in the scheme. In other words, it is not only "they" but also "we."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u69	Mr Schaap pointed out that the troubles had to go to court if necessary. They may or may not be satisfied there. But how does he suggest the solution, suggested by the Secretary of State, that the committee does not have any room to invest extra, because it has to do with the space now available? Then the pain is divided among everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u70	The national ceiling has been set on the basis of the space provided by the environmental and water directives. Then it comes to division. The less trouble you get, the easier it gets. That is what the debate is about, but that is not what this legislation is about. A system of duties is hereby established. The amendment proposes that this be looked at carefully, for which a committee has been set up. Apart from that: The Netherlands is a rule of law, so that everyone has the opportunity to seek his or her right on the basis of his or her own situation. That's what the judge's for. It's pretty dark how that all turns out and how many farmers are going to participate in it. Furthermore, it is rather dark what the judge will do with this and how much time is allocated to it. I'd rather wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u71	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u72	But a lot of farmers will not be so eager to wait, because they have that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u73	Let me put it another way: I would like to come back to this, but I would like to wait and see what is developing in the House of Representatives, what judgments are being made and what conclusions the committee draws. Maybe we can find something after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you. That's an interesting route indeed. But do you have any ideas what we're gonna do in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u75	In this case, not too much, because I do not want to get in the way of that committee, and certainly not the judiciary. In that sense, I prefer to wait and see what comes out of these two parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u76	I hear Mr Schaap saying that he wants to wait for the committee and for judicial agreements. Does he mean that he wants to suspend this debate? If not, why does he want to continue with the law if he wants to wait for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u77	I don't want to wait with this law at all. We need this law in order to get another right in Brussels, namely the right of derogation. That is what we need very much to keep the dairy farming a little 'on its feet'. 'Cause if that discount got over it, the turnips are flattened well cooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u78	I can draw the same conclusion for you as for Mr Atsma: you would rather confront your own entrepreneurs than Brussels. You were just talking about all kinds of organisations that you thought represented the sector so well, to which we should listen. But we also have our own responsibility here, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u79	Whoa, I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u80	I'd like to finish my question. We can judge ourselves whether it is reasonable and fair that we should leave the organic farmers or farmers who have invested in the cold. We can't just leave that to organisations, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u81	That is why there is a ministerial arrangement, which contains procedures on how to deal with this. We're not just gonna leave them to their fate. As far as self-regulation and initiatives from the private sector are concerned, I am happy to leave them there. We're here for government regulation. That's what I'm talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u82	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u83	We're really on different planets. We are talking about regulations that can eventually lead to a lot of farmers getting hurt. I would like that not only to the sector, but also to us to think about whether that is a good solution and whether we will eventually opt for a little fight with Brussels or with our own entrepreneurs. I would like to hear from the VVD Group where it wants this fight to take place: among the entrepreneurs, who have invested and are disadvantaged, among the biofarmers, who have no part in the problem or with Mr Vella, Commissioner in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u84	No, we have our own responsibility here. It is in addition to the responsibility of the parties in the sector. That's the private part. A word about Brussels: you often suggest that Brussels is a'she' who pours misery on us, but the directives have been drawn up jointly by the Member States, in lengthy discussions and subsequently ratified. We have solemnly promised to abide by it. That is what we are doing today; hence this regulation. Brussels is not a "she" but a collective "we." It would be very strange for us to agree to the directive, and then, if it is not convenient for us, not to stick to it. Of course, it doesn't work that way in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u85	Mrs. Fox, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u86	You don't want to get in the way of the committee. Do you not therefore think that the committee should have room for serious work to be done on the problem regulation so that more phosphate space is available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u87	This is mainly the case with the Secretary of State. If we have decided, on the basis of all kinds of cases, to have a committee come up with rules, then we must be equally cautious and give the committee room for manoeuvre. When she shows up, we can see if we can find anything. I had asked why the Secretary of State did not come up with a general statement, but put it into an arrangement. Doesn't this make the Empire very much the owner of the problem, with the possible risk that the Empire and the sector will face each other in the face of the problem of trouble? I would like to hear the considerations that led to this decision. Unmistakably, there are a large number of problems with a great deal of diversity in their nature. What the VVD Group is concerned about is that the problem of poverty is getting off the ground and that not only the Empire and the sector are facing each other, but that this is also going to apply to dairy farmers among themselves. The Court's ruling in the interim proceedings threatens to cause a large number of dairy farmers to go to court. However, a much larger number of recognised problems will also have consequences for generic skimming. That's where the Reich's appeal comes in. That is an appeal without suspensive effect. It is a good thing that the committee has been appointed unfortunate phosphate rights and its work can begin. For individual cases, however, there is also the possibility of appeal and appeal. I do not want to make specific statements on specific cases or categories of cases, because this would not benefit the many procedures under way. What worries me, however, is the great uncertainty that is now creeping into the sector, the danger of a loss of central control and the chaos that may arise at the end of the year if it is still to be resolved. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he holds the matter together from his responsibility for the settlement. Does he also want to make it clear what exactly is the status of the conclusions to which the committee comes? Does the Secretary of State fully accept these conclusions? We are talking today about an amendment to the Fertilisers Act and not specifically about the phosphate reduction plan. I would like to come back to this plan and other elements of the agreement which should strike a balance in the dairy sector during the course of this year, I hope, if there has been some convergence in developments. I have another question about the system of phosphate rights. Can these rights be tax-deprecated? Mr Atsma asked the same question. Would the Secretary of State like to give you some assurance on that? I would like to make a comment on an apparently popular arrangement under the agreement, namely the financial compensation to dairy farmers who end their dairy farming and thereby make their phosphate right available to others. The VVD group has noticed how many dairy farmers have registered for the first tranche. For many there are more than expected, but to be honest, I am not surprised. This has everything to do with general developments in the Dutch agricultural sector. Large numbers of farmers, including farmers, see too little future prospects for their farms. This is not something dramatic; it was never any different after the war. A lack of perspective may have to do with business conditions. Return demands scale and management of the costs of business. So I'm thinking something different than the SP. The latter also has to do with the cost explosion caused by government regulations. A factor of importance is the fact that many companies do not have a successor, also as a result of the fact that families are smaller today. Ever since the war a process of scaling up in Dutch agriculture has been taking place, as by the way everywhere in the world. The number of farmers is constantly shrinking. In relative terms, this is now happening faster than ever. As a result, companies are constantly being released on the market. This leads to merger with other companies and thus to scaling up. In this context, I would like to emphasise the impact of regulation imposed by the public authorities on the sector. Such regulation may be necessary, but it is often so cost-intensive that its impact can only be met by linking major investments to scaling up. The government is therefore strongly contributing to an even more rapid process of scaling up. The effect of phosphate regulation will be no different. The small scale of the agricultural sector, which many people have mentioned, is an absolutely dead end. Scale enlargement is not only inevitable, it is also a blessing. This is the only way to ensure that the rules are implemented successfully. In that sense, the so-called'megastables' are also, I think, a strange term, because it is in fact nothing but larger stables, a positive and actually provoked development. The inevitable process of scaling up therefore clashes with the often politically left cherished romance of small scale. I dare to make this even clearer, and I would like to point out a paradox which provokes the political left itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u88	I'm gonna hit it anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u89	I'm still working on my speech, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u90	I understand. I'm gonna turn to the fact that you're looking at megasthals as a blessing. Does that also mean that the VVD welcomes the fact that seven agricultural entrepreneurs have to stop every day because they cannot keep up with the scale increase, which is megamorphosis? Does the VVD now wave out all these small entrepreneurs, all these family farms, with the message: fine, those small businesses do not matter anymore; those houses are fantastic? Did I hear your speech so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u91	You didn't quite get that. I do not at all welcome the fact that so many farmers are disappearing from this profession. I'm just saying that it's almost inevitable that this is happening because of the need to invest in order to survive. I do not think that the drastic reduction in the number of farmers in the Netherlands is a good thing in the cultural sense. I can say the same for the large number of small middlemen who disappear because large companies take over a large part of the market. I don't think that's good for culture at all, but you're not gonna stop it. What I am saying is that through this strict regulation, the government encourages farmers to disappear. After all, they have to invest a lot of money, and that can only be done with scale jumps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u92	I think I heard Mr Schaap say earlier in his speech: please be careful to further promote this successful organic sector with small-scale businesses, because before you know it, it will collapse again. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u93	Many organic farms are not small-scale at all. These companies are often large-scale and are getting much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u94	So, if I understand correctly, you're actually arguing for biological megasms?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u95	I ask you both to speak through the chairman, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u96	As far as I'm concerned, they can quietly develop larger organic dairy stalls. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u97	As I indicated at the beginning of my interruption, it is therefore inevitable that seven family farms should close their doors a day. Do you say: that is the case; should we take that on sale?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u98	I just said that I find that sad in the cultural sense, and otherwise it is indeed inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u99	I will come back to self-regulation and the abandonment of businesses. Mr Schaap is, of course, right in saying that many companies are disappearing in many areas. We are, of course, dealing with an arrangement in which the government is the one that finances and makes it possible, and therefore attractive, the cessation of business. Today's farmers still have the advantage of retaining the phosphate rights that actually belong to their farms and thus being able to sell them. In this sense, it would be doubly advantageous for the public authorities to pay for the cessation of farming, and farmers would soon have the savings of phosphate rights that could be sold, as Mr Schalk has just mentioned. That situation is a bit different from that of many grocers, butchers and bakers who have had to close their shops because there was just too little business, because the supermarkets became too big or because there were no successors. Less resources were available for this sector than for this sector. I do not want to argue that what is happening now is not sensible, but I do think that the self-regulatory aspect and the market aspect are somewhat excited, given the reality in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u100	It is precisely by making rights available and making them negotiable that the government does not put money into it itself, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u101	But it's because of the closure of the company. That's what 50 million stands for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u102	Gentlemen, let each other speak now, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u103	This therefore creates a certain dynamic in the sector that can make the sector more vibrant. I regret the fact that these rights are again an asset which is in fact withdrawn from the sector when farmers with that capital retire under the poverty line, but that was the case with the dairy quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u104	The point is, of course, that the government pays for this scheme. There are so many more farmers who would like to stop the scheme from even providing for it. In that sense, it is not the case that the company is sold to a company that wants to grow larger. In the first instance, the cessation of business is accompanied by government subsidies. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u105	Should you find a welcome solution to this process with financial support, I will also help you in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u106	Speakers from all over the political spectrum are now on the microphone, while Mr Schaap thought he was hitting something left-wing with his remark. However, he raises a very important issue: the large number of business closures and the perspective in the sector, including for new entrepreneurs. Like Mr Schnabel, I dispute the idea that these are all autonomous developments, because this sector is, of course, heavily regulated. That's what makes the whole discussion so complicated. For starters, for young farmers, the perspective in the sector is not attractive. For many young farmers that is a reason not to step in. I think it is important to also see that there are many entrepreneurs who would like to go on or who would like to do their life's work there, but it has become almost impossible for them to start a business now. I would also very much like to use today's debate to think about that. What does this actually mean for the future of new young entrepreneurs? So I am somewhat opposed to the idea that this is inevitable and that we need to go to scale-up. This also means that companies are becoming so capital intensive that the perspective is no longer attractive to new entrants in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u107	I share the analysis, but I have said that because of all the regulations that require very far-reaching investment, the government itself encourages this scale leap. However, there is also an autonomous development. I think about two of the three farms have no successor. This means that over a generation the average company has grown by a factor of three. It's gonna be okay. Companies are taken over by another company; that production space is taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u108	Mr Dercksen, this will be the last interruption on this point, because I would like to move on to Mr Schaap's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u109	I would like to refer to the often acclaimed phosphate rights granted as capital. However, they can also be cancelled with a snap of the fingers. How do you suggest that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u110	Yeah, that's what happened with the dairy quote. For the movers, that's power destruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u111	Yeah, that's kind of what I mean. So you allow this to be applauded first and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u112	Mr. Dercksen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u113	That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u114	Now let's call it quits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u115	We're not gonna debate anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u116	I ask Mr Schaap to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u117	I'll come up with a few things. So I shall see Mr Dercksen again. I told you, the mega stables should mainly be seen as larger stables. In general, these larger stables are also heavens for the cows. Let me remind you of the old dirty Dutch stables where the cows were tied to the chain for six or seven months. What you went through there with claw infections, caught udders and so on, can't be described with a pen; I know that from my own experience. Now they lie neatly on a waterbed and can move all day. In short, those larger stables are also a party for the cattle. I was talking about the romance of small scale being a bit of a distorted image. I would like to make it even more clear that I had a little bit of a left-wing approach by calling it a paradox. It is mainly the political left who insists on a wide range of measures for the sector, preferably not designed by the sector itself but imposed by the government. This is to manage the agricultural sector. I don't have a bad word for that. I am thinking here of animal welfare, animal health, public health in relation to food quality, business safety and the broad spectrum of the environment, which we are discussing today. It should be borne in mind, however, that any rebuffing by a policy, whether romantic or not, drives the exodus from the agricultural sector and thus accelerates the scaling-up. So that's paradoxical when you hug the small scale at the same time. Innovative business investments are needed, although you can discuss whether this should always be imposed by the government. It can also be left to private initiative. The agricultural sectors are highly innovative and also within the chains a lot is being done to improve quality, if only for economic reasons, such as conquering the most lucrative market segments. The Netherlands now has a very productive agricultural sector, which delivers very safe products in an extremely innovative way. Those who are concerned about the diet in the Netherlands and elsewhere can better focus on the end of the chains, such as fast food companies, and on consumer behaviour. That prevents a lot of unjustified accusations against farmers. Again, scaling up is not only an autonomous process, but is also urgently needed to remain a front-runner in the world in political and economic terms. This leads me to the perhaps daring or perhaps provocative thesis on the scale of agricultural holdings: the larger, the better. Greater means more investment space, more innovation and quality improvement. That may not sound very romantic, but that is also the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u118	I hesitated for a moment if I would pick up the gauntlet for the left-wing romantics and so on, but I must say that in my speech I would also like to give some thought to the vision of the sector itself, as Mr Schaap mentioned. When the milk quota system was abolished, the sector itself argued in favour of the family farm, not the very large companies that Mr Schaap is advocating. So I really wonder whether in the sector he has just mentioned, which should provide a vision of the future and of the sustainability of the future, with him too, there is a conflict between scaling up and maintaining the family business. In this context, LTO and the NZO passionately advocated the abolition of the milk quota system in 2013-2104.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u119	I have just made it clear that I consider the exodus from the middle class and from the agricultural sector to be a cultural problem. We should not underestimate the consequences of this. The mentality of the small entrepreneur and self-employed hard work and self-seeking solutions is an enormous virtue, at least in my view. But keep in mind that we have almost exclusively family businesses in the Netherlands. An agricultural farm of 1,000 hectares is a family farm. You don't even need a lot of people to do that, if you don't intensify too much. A cattle farm with 1,000 dairy cows is a family business. That may sound big here, but you don't have to go far across the world to discover that that is still very small-scale livestock farming. In short, the family business is not at all under discussion, not even when it comes to scaling up. That's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u120	Mr Verheijen, I would like to conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u121	That's clear. The conclusion is, of course, that economic developments are driving the scale and hence also the definition of 'family business', as Mr Schaap is now filling in. I myself have the idea that the various generations of agricultural managers are always using a new definition of 'family business'. An experience for my part: in the Overdiepse Polder, an important area for water storage, completely new companies were started after restructuring there for the removal of dike protection. The young farmers I spoke to there were again not satisfied with the scale of the farms that started there three years ago. This indicates that we must be careful to accuse each other of romance when technical and economic development goes so quickly that we have to adapt definitions almost every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u122	It has happened before: Mr Verheijen and I totally agree, because I myself come from such an area, the North-East Polder. I myself come from a small farm with about 30 cows. I've been on that for a while. When we were faced with the choice of whether or not to go further, it was quite simple: we stopped, because it is too small. That polder had only just been decorated. The polder wasn't ready yet or it was too small-scale. That's what you see happening there: a huge speed of merging. You can say you don't want to, but it will. Soon there will be just no farmers to sit on those farms, because the children are leaving. Mr President, my speech is interrupted occasionally. That is why I repeat once in a while, but this is forced upon us by the discussions. I would like to come back to the contribution scheme for the return of livestock, which we have already talked about a few times. It appears that many who did not already see a perspective for continuing their business can be encouraged to stop the business earlier than anticipated. This recalls an earlier phase in the modernisation of the Dutch agricultural sector. After the war, the Dutch government, together with the many involved in the agricultural sector, started a wide process of modernisation. The sector needed to become more productive in order to secure long-term food supplies. The so-called Development and Reunification Fund was part of the instruments used for this purpose. Farmers on a sub-optimal company So that's where I'm from, too. I could be eligible for financial support if they stopped the company and made the production space available to the rest of the population. The scheme worked well. This is reflected in the current contribution scheme. Now I come back to the above mentioned quality stroke. Farmers who do not have successors or otherwise consider ending the business are a brake on the modernisation and innovation policy needed to keep the sector alive, but also to comply with the regulatory objectives. Farmers and gardeners, without a clear future perspective, hardly invest, especially when it comes to investment in depth that is only profitable in the long term. Investment and innovation are almost always accompanied by scaling-up. Only in a combination of both are banks eligible for credit. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this line of reasoning. I would like to add that I would like to re-establish a fund similar to the Development and Reunification Fund mentioned, either by the Empire or by co-financing it from the agricultural sector. This money could help to speed up the withdrawal of farmers from the sector. Then I'm talking about the farmers who are already planning to stop. This in turn creates room for others to give substance to the process of modernisation and innovation, including regulatory compliance. Such a system could also be linked to a renewed structural policy for the agricultural sector. I would also like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u123	Before we continue with Mrs Vos' input, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that his permanent taps are audible until this point. That's kind of annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals that are closely related, the Law on Ground-based Growth Dairy Farming and the Law on the Implementation of Phosphate Rights. This latest bill cannot be separated from the regime with the phosphate reduction plan 2017. Mr President, I see that my speaking time is still at zero. It's useful for me to be able to follow a little bit how long I'm talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u125	You've been at it for 25 seconds. I'll keep an eye on it. You signed up for 20 minutes. As soon as someone interrupts, I'll stop the clock. Then he walks on again. But I warn you in time, because when I see your piece like this, it's gonna take a little longer, and we don't have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u126	That's why it's so important for me to keep track of time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I get the feeling of a theatre play, or rather a drama, with many companies. At every company, you're getting more gloomy about the happy ending. From the beginning we could see that things went wrong, but the players refused to change their game. With this bill and the phosphate reduction plan, too, the Netherlands is not at all sure that it will comply with the European Nitrate Directive. It is also not at all certain that these legislative proposals will lead to a sustainable, responsible and animal-friendly dairy farming in the Netherlands. Once again, we are making legislation more complex for companies and government, and therefore more difficult to implement and control. Since the 1980s, the Netherlands has been struggling with a surplus of manure and livestock farming that is growing out, at the expense of animals, nature, the environment and the quality of life. Where in the beginning it was mainly pigs and chickens, dairy farming has gradually taken over this role. That is extremely sad. This would not have been necessary if the authorities had previously intervened, inter alia with a view to the expiry of the milk quota. However, once that wrong decision had been made, in the eyes of GroenLinks, there was still time to prevent the matter from getting out of hand from the date on which the milk quota was abolished, namely 1 January 2015. Everyone saw coming that many dairy farmers were going to expand considerably. Scale expansion and supposedly more efficient production, that's what it was all about. That's what all the space came for now, while there was no solution for the manure. In 2013 I was at a meeting of the NZO. There some claimed that dairy farmers who were already going to exceed their quota were the people of the future. They were the smart and far-sighted entrepreneurs, who paid a fine for a glorious future for Dutch dairy farming and dairy farming. This is what my group strongly criticises the government and the sector of agriculture, the dairy sector and the banking sector. Apparently, these are dollar or euro signs rather than a vision of a sustainable, responsible development of dairy farming; they are money rather than common sense. GroenLinks and other groups in this Chamber have already asked the cabinet years ago to have a new production control system ready with the expiry of the milk quota immediately on day one, so that we would continue to produce within the environmental standards, so that we would continue to comply with the European Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. But no, at the time Secretary of State Dijksma didn't think that was necessary, under pressure from the agricultural lobby. It was sufficient to warn the sector that measures would be taken once the phosphate ceiling was exceeded. We knew that. While the dairy sector's growth was already clear in 2013, and in 2014 it was such that the ceiling was exceeded, only on 1 July 2015, when the figures from 2014 were final, the brake was put on it. As a result, there had been strong growth and a lot of investment. Painful measures, capital destruction and financial damage have now become inevitable, while a forward-looking production control policy could have prevented that. The Secretary of State is now intervening with the aim of reaching and remaining below the phosphate ceiling for dairy farming and thus maintaining the derogation. What we are missing is a clear vision of the future of dairy farming in the Netherlands. Where does this cabinet intend to go and what steps should be taken to that end? To what extent does the intervention of the Secretary of State fit in? GroenLinks advocates a dairy farming that produces sustainably, that is animal-friendly, that strengthens the environment, nature and landscape, that contributes to a liveable countryside and a good income for dairy farmers and that provides milk and products of high quality. GroenLinks advocates quality rather than quantity. The legislative process of dairy farming since 2014 shows a build-up of successive schemes, which are not always well interlinked. The future does not seem to be a coherent vision, which is so badly needed. I have one comment to make on the proposal for a law on land-based growth in dairy farming. This is a conversion of the equivalent AMvB, as the Chamber wished. However, I would like to emphasise that the title is misleading. The land-based dairy farming is, of course, only partly realised with this bill. It's only partly ground-bound. It's only half effective. That is an extraordinary pity. I am now focusing on the proposal on phosphate rights. In our view, a number of parts do not fit in with a sustainable, responsible dairy farming, as I outlined earlier. First of all, I ask the Secretary of State why he is holding on to a phosphate ceiling per livestock sector. Europe does not ask for this at all and wants the Netherlands to remain below the total phosphate ceiling. This leads to the strange situation that the Secretary of State does allow growth in the goat and meat-cow sector, but intervenes harshly in the dairy sector, including those farms which remain below the European nitrate standard of 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare and do not in fact need the derogation. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Secondly, we have a major problem with the system of marketable phosphate rights. This deprives the government of an important steering tool, namely to steer sustainability. Handlerability strengthens scaling and especially allows dairy farmers with a lot of money or a lot of borrowing capacity to expand. It does not matter whether enlargement is a biological or sustainable business. Quite the opposite will happen, because anyone who wants to buy expensive phosphate rights will have to be able to recover them from highly productive animals who supply a lot of milk. These are not the more extensive farms, such as organic ones, while the current manure crisis, but also the climate problem and the animal welfare questions, make it clear that we are at a turning point. Do we now opt for sustainable, future-proof dairy farming or let the market make the choices and continue on the path of scaling up, a lot of capital and thus a high pressure on high milk production, which also attracts a heavy change on dairy cows? Are we continuing to use many raw materials and more environmental pollution, which we are primarily trying to tackle with technical solutions? We think it is a missed opportunity that sustainable development is not an objective of this law. A system of non-marketable rights would have given the government the unique opportunity to steer sustainability. We also wonder whether the marketable phosphate rights will not be an expensive joke. It is estimated that the government is giving 5 to 7 billion phosphate rights to the sector from various experts. What will happen if there is a need to intervene again in the future and to remove phosphate rights from the market? The Secretary of State is convinced that this will not lead to claims for damages. He says there are no independent property rights to phosphate rights. In his view, this was also demonstrated by the ruling of the Supreme Court on marketable pig rights. But to what extent does phosphate rights apply to dairy farming one-on-one to pig rights? We would like a more detailed explanation from the Secretary of State. Is he 100% sure of his case? The Secretary of State has also been in trouble with marketable phosphate rights vis-à-vis the European Commission. The Commission considers this to be State aid and it is not allowed to help the sector to comply with the obligations of the derogation. Would the Secretary of State please explain how he was attacked by this judgment of the European Commission? Why didn't he choose the non-marketable phosphate rights at the time? My group wants a system that controls sustainability. Good proposals have been made for this, including by the nature and environmental organisations that have proposed with a coalition of land-based farmers a standard of up to 2,3 LU/ha including young cattle, with a maximum number of kilograms of milk per hectare, a closed manure feed balance per farm or region and with permanent grassland as the main objective for feed. This is a livestock farm, as it traditionally belongs to the Netherlands. Simple, clear, and verifiable. GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports this proposal, because this is the forward-looking approach that is urgently needed. The Grashoff motion of April 2016 called for an independent study on how the livestock sector could grow broadly towards a system of land-based animal rights, while simplifying legislation. What has the Secretary of State done with this wish of the House of Representatives? Does he recognise the complexity of the current regulations? Does the Secretary of State also recognise that simpler regulation is less sensitive to fraud due to greater clarity and accountability? How's he handling the manure fraud hole? How's he gonna fix that? What are the risks to the derogation of fraud and the resulting manure in, for example, Brabant? We are concerned about the increase in fertilizer use in the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to evaluate the impact of the legislative proposals on the use of fertilizers? Then I come to the hard date of 2 July 2015. Dairy farmers who have decided to invest in expansion or start as a company, before the date of July 2, 2015 are hit hard by the system of the bill. That date determines how many phosphate rights you get. This leads to painful situations and financial problems for many companies. We very much regret that. We find it indigestible when it comes to organic dairy farmers, because they do not contribute to exceeding that 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. Just the companies, which decided to expand before 2 July 2015, because there was a shortage of organic milk in the Netherlands, and the companies that decided to switch or start a business, are hit very hard by the hard date of 2 July 2015. Because on that date, precisely those farms often had few dairy cows because they were still developing or expanding their farms. My group finds it indigestible when the organic farms, which operate neatly within the European nitrate standard of 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare, are severely reduced and receive far less phosphate rights than they need in order to develop already before 2 July 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u127	You're now at 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like that very much. The allocation of phosphate rights solely on the basis of the date of 2 July 2015, regardless of the development phase in which the company was located, and regardless of a future-oriented way of production that is or is not sustainable, is far too short of my group. It is precisely from a vision of the future of dairy farming in the Netherlands that farms that already meet all these expensive environmental and animal welfare requirements should not suffer from a problem mainly caused by the massive increase in scale and by the increase in industrial mega-farms. The Smalling motion, adopted in April 2016, called for a scheme, which does not undermine new organic dairy farmers, expanding organic dairy farms and farms that switch to organic dairy farming by the phosphate rights Act. Why didn't the Cabinet carry out this motion? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that, on the basis of this adopted motion, organic dairy farmers could expect an arrangement to be made for them if they were seriously affected by the fact that phosphate rights are granted on the basis of the dairy herd on the date of 2 July 2015? I would ask the Secretary of State to spare the biological companies and to ensure that they do not suffer from the phosphate system. This concerns 2% of the total number of farms, a legally very clearly defined group, because bound by two European Union organic regulations which are subject to very specific rules on manure, soil binding and a number of other rules, with a clear control system and a status recorded and controlled in a biological register. It is therefore a small, clearly defined group of companies. I urge the Secretary of State not to allow these companies to suffer from a problem to which they have not contributed. The phosphate duties 2018 shall be calculated on the basis of the numbers of animals on 2 July 2015. Whoever has money can buy rights in 2018 and solve problems. But those who have no money and no access to finance, they are in trouble, they are left with investments made, and often debts that cannot be paid back. This certainly applies to more extensive farms, such as organic dairy farming, and farms with rare breeds. It is virtually impossible for those companies to buy expensive phosphate rights of at least €5,000 per cow. With a low-productive animal, you're just not gonna make it back. We believe that this is an extremely undesirable development. The problem regulation, as it currently stands in the law, is very limited. The Geurts amendment calls for an extension of the scheme, including to farms which are organic or have to deal with biological conversion, but so far the Secretary of State has kept the scope for the scheme very limited. He's not willing to make more phosphate space available. We want to clarify this, because otherwise this arrangement will simply be a dead sparrow. With regard to 2017, we are concerned that the current package will bring us below the phosphate ceiling. After all, the transport track has not worked sufficiently so far. The stopper arrangement is less than planned, the Secretary of State acknowledges. The phosphate reduction regime is under attack by the judgements of the amenities court. Does the Secretary of State have a plan B if it goes wrong? In the written reply, the Secretary of State asks in reply to my question why companies with a high phosphate donation per cow in 2017 can count on an average, so low phosphate donation........................................................................................................... I'd like to get that explained. Then something about the judge's ruling in the interim proceedings. We do see a strong link between this ruling and the Phosphate Rights Bill 2018. That bill contains a problem regulation. And whoever gets into trouble in 2018 is in 2017. The measures for 2017 are closely linked to the system and measures from 2018. The Court held that the individual plaintiffs were right in the case of dairy cows and that they should not be reduced by the public authorities. According to the Court of Justice, these dairy farmers did not have to take into account that their investments before 2 July 2015 would be made by the scheme. The Court of Justice considers the maintenance of the derogation to be a general legitimate interest. The judge says that the fact that organic farms themselves have no interest in the derogation does not change that. However, the court then states that the scheme has additional adverse effects on organic holdings and that the proportionality of the scheme is even more at risk to them as the scheme seeks to solve a problem to which the biological sector is not actually contributing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u129	I have just had a short debate with Mr Schnabel on the basis of 2018. It will be laid in 2017. How does Mrs Vos weigh that when it comes to the progress of the process of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u130	What exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u131	There's a lot of legal stuff going on. The Secretary of State's appealing. There's a judge's ruling. We don't know what the problem of 2018 will look like. Does Mrs Vos think that we can deal with this further, or should we first know what is going to happen with this problem regulation, in order to know how many farmers are going to be killed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u132	I certainly agree with you that there is indeed a link between the judgments of the judge, the situation in 2017 and what will happen in 2018. I have just indicated that there is a lot of uncertainty as to whether the 2017 scheme will produce enough and what that means for 2018. I agree with you that we can only make a proper assessment if we know exactly how it works. Anyway, we're standing here now and we're handling the bill. That's what I'm gonna keep doing. Mr. Chairman. In fact, the court understands all those who have entered into irreversible investment commitments before 2 July 2015 and who are therefore facing serious problems with profitability and may therefore be covered by the 2018 framework. The judge also refers to the Council of State which has already warned against this. In the end, the Secretary of State did not wish to include these dairy farmers under a problem regime, now that this would lead to demarcation problems, but the judge says that under Article 1, the first protocol of the ECHR, that argument does not matter. This approach by the judge shows the consistency between the 2017 regime, the judge's assessment in these six cases and the draft law for 2018. So we do not agree with the conclusion that we can deal with these matters completely separately. In any case, we see two important points. All companies that are in serious financial difficulties because they have made investments before 2 July 2015 will be told by the court that they will not be cut short. In addition, the court finds that organic farms are subject to additional disadvantages and that proportionality is all the more at stake for them. What is this going to mean for the reduction of phosphate production 2017 and what is plan B of the State Secretary on this point? How does he judge judgments on organic farms? I read some threatening language in the letter written by the Secretary of State on 12 May, namely that if the State is agreed, companies that have not implemented the rules relating to the judgment of the court of appeal will do so on their own account. Does the Secretary of State mean that, with retroactive effect, fines will still be imposed on companies which have not disposed of cows in the light of this judgment? I like to be clear about that. I would also like to draw attention to the rare breeds, such as sheetfielders and blister heads. The Secretary of State has made a slight adjustment to the regulations for this year. You don't have to get rid of your calves; only the adult animals have to go or go to the slaughter. And if you have, besides your rare dairy cows, regular dairy cows, you have to put them away to save your rare pets. This is not a solution to the problem. The rare animals will disappear. It is an impossible choice for a dairy farmer in a financially tight or difficult situation to dispose of your well-producing animals, thus preserving the rare breed animals and possibly getting into financial difficulties with your business. That has become clear from the many letters we have received. We believe that there is another and special interest in the game, for which the Dutch authorities share responsibility. It is a question of preserving genetic diversity; I refer once again to the 1992 Rio Convention. It is also about the preservation of cultural heritage and meaningful cultural landscape, in which these animals are image-defining. We ask the Secretary of State to exclude the rare dairy breeds, in a bottleneck scheme or in any other way. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'll come to a conclusion. The Dutch dairy sector has gone down a dead-end path and hit a rock-hard wall. Instead of moving forward in time, towards future-proof dairy farming, the government and industry have been guided by short-term financial interests and the desire for technological solutions. The present legislative proposals again bear witness to this way of thinking. A solid vision of the future of Dutch livestock farming is lacking, and so we continue on the path of the accumulation of increasingly complex legislation, which does not contribute to a sustainable dairy farming. We are extremely critical, but we await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u133	In the final sentences of your contribution, you say that technological solutions have been chosen. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u134	I think there is far too much positive thinking about all kinds of technological solutions. For example around the manure is always thought: oh, we are going to successful manure treatment, we are going to solve that problem. The same applies to other problems, such as ammonia and so on. I believe that it has been thought unrealisticly that the technology will solve it, while it is really about the numbers of animals and about the production per animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u135	So Mrs Vos is not talking about all these ICT investments in the stables and on the tractors, remote sensing and I don't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u136	That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u137	It would be good to specify for a moment, because in no time it will be: technology against nature. That's not how reality works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u138	I would like to thank Mr Schaap very much for the opportunity to explain this. That is not my intention: I am referring in particular to technological solutions which we now believe can solve all of us with environmental problems, which I do not think is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u139	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposals that we are discussing today have long been laid down and grounded, and they have ended up in this Chamber: the law on soil-based growth dairy farming and the amendment of the Fertilisers Act in connection with the introduction of a system of phosphate rights. The route that has been followed does not deserve a beauty prize. After all, one of the consequences of these legislative proposals is the slaughter of a total of 160,000 often healthy cows. And even though we are debating these proposals today and we are voting on them next week, there are already 90,000 genders. That is a matter of getting ahead of ourselves. Generally speaking, we deal with laws here because there is a problem that has to be solved. One problem is highlighted here: the phosphate surplus with, if we do not take action against it, a possible loss of derogation from Brussels. That derogation makes it possible for us to drive out more manure on our land than we normally would have liked. However, in the view of the SP, the problem is bigger than this alone. We are dealing with trends that we should not want. I am now proposing to use the opportunity to reverse these trends. I am talking, for example, about the growing scale of dairy farming and the additional megas. I am also talking about the fact that cows are getting out less and less, often being kept in stables all year round, and then having problems with the claws. I also refer to the disappearance of our cultural landscape of the cow in the meadow. I am talking about people who, as a result of intensive livestock farming, suffer from diseases caused by fine dust. About people who have become ill because of diseases that appear especially when large numbers of animals are kept close together. About animals that need to be killed in large numbers when an infectious disease occurs. And also about communities that are torn apart by people being played out against each other by plans for mega-stables. It would be a nice thing for me to conclude at the end of this debate that we have taken a step in the right direction. Not only to deal with phosphate problems, but also to tackle other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u140	Let me get this straight: what is a megastal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u141	A megastal I think is a big stable. Soon I will mention in my contribution an example of a farmer extending from 60 to 460 cows. I think that's a big stable; that's a megastal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u142	I find the term "big stable" more appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u143	You also mentioned large stables and mega stables. In the meantime, everyone knows what a megastal means. When you read the papers and when you talk to people, we're talking about big stables. I'm talking about the big stables, the big barns, with the doors closed. People who cycled past do not know what is happening in those stables, what animals are standing there and how they are kept there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u144	For the clarification it is equally good to note the following. Large megas for dairy cows are all as open as they can be. The wind has to blow through it, for the simple reason that the cow prefers a temperature of about eight degrees and especially not anymore. In short, these stables are not closed at all; everyone can just see what's in there, precisely because of that openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u145	And yet, if you walk past it or ride a bike, you might see in the distance some black and white or red and white and you think: they must be cows. But you don't see those animals walking in the meadow anymore. That's exactly what the Dutchman appreciates: that cultural landscape with the cow in the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u146	Finally, Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u147	Just for the record, 80% of Dutch cows go outside as much as possible in the summer and that number is even increasing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u148	I have heard quite different figures than Mr Schaap, because in recent years that number has fallen to 70% and it is falling. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. Let us first look back at the origin of the problem. Until 1 April 2015, there was a milk quota that limited the quantity of milk to be produced and thus also the number of cows and the amount of manure and phosphate. Was there room for 9% more cows at the time of the quota because we were neatly below the phosphate ceiling, friend and enemy saw coming that with the lifting of the quota the number of cows to be kept would explode. In 2013, an agreement was concluded between the then State Secretary and the sector. The organisations promised to monitor phosphate production and hoped to reduce the phosphate content in the feed. This self-regulation has been dramatically unraveled. The production of phosphate per cow was reduced by the feed track, but the increase in the number of cows increased phosphate production from 2013. In 2014, when the milk quota had not even been abolished, phosphate production in dairy farming already exceeded the limit of 84.9 million kilos by 0.7 million kilos. It didn't look like it was gonna end here. The story is significant, I say to Mr Schaap, of farmer Jan Jonkman from Mariënheem, who expanded from 60 cows to 480 cows and built a stable for this. The number of farmers who have ended or want to end their farms is high. The Ministry's "stop pot" with a compensation scheme for stopping farmers was empty within 24 hours and is reopened. The number of cows has increased by 19% in recent years. Examples of this kind of rapid growth led the then State Secretary to announce the system of phosphate rights. Mr President, the government wants to reduce phosphate emissions and the solution it chooses consists of three parts, but do we meet the objectives we set ourselves? If you read the various pieces, you will encounter quite a few goals, for example, that we are working towards a sustainable livestock farming based on soil-boundness and that we limit or limit the growth of livestock farming where it is necessary from the point of view of public health, the environment, nature, the quality of the environment or the landscape. That reads as a plea for organic, often ground-based livestock farming and should sound like music to our ears, but what are the government's proposals now? I'll walk you through those three measures. First of all, buying out quitting farmers. In itself, this was a way to quickly get rid of a number of animals. Farmers who want to quit got €1,200 per cow. This measure has an unintentional effect: especially the smaller farmers have chosen eggs for their money and stop their farms, for example because there is no successor in the family. This leaves mainly large companies that feed their cows less. The landscape is marred by large stables of which one does not know what is happening in there or which animals are being kept at all. Our highly acclaimed cultural landscape is severely affected, and not only that. In the meantime, more and more is known about the disadvantages of keeping large quantities of animals in a small area. For example, in July 2016, RIVM published the research on livestock farming and health residents. This shows that there are possible links between living in the environment of often large-scale livestock farming and health. RIVM concludes that measures are needed and insists on controlling animal numbers at regional level in relation to the quality of the environment, or in plain Dutch: a distribution policy. Also animals do not benefit from high density. It is obvious that there are times when an animal disease breaks out and it is decided to clean up a whole region of animals. For the foot-and-mouth outbreak, 260,000 cows and sheep were cleared in 2001. In 1997 and 1998, swine fever killed 2.5 million pigs. The Q-fever epidemic had serious consequences between 2007 and 2010: between 50,000 and 100,000 people were infected and 75 died. There's still patients coming in, and people are still dying. Because of avian flu, 30 million chickens were cleared in 2003, and I am not talking about preventive antibiotic use in megastories. The second measure is the generic discount. The original intention was to get everything and everyone to turn in the same amount. The House of Representatives has carried out a small repair, the partial relief of the land-based companies. This generic discount has disadvantages. We could have given our ambition for a sustainable, more land-based livestock farming a boost in the right direction by avoiding land-based and organic farms, but that has not happened. Now companies that have not contributed to the problem are being punished. I am referring in particular to organic farms. We can have the semantic discussion that also poops organic cows, but if these cows are not ground bound, there is generally an agreement at regional level with a (organic) farmer on whose land the manure is run out. There is therefore no more production than can be disposed of on land. Organic farmers do not ask for a derogation, the authorisation to drive out more manure than is permitted under the Nitrates Directive. In fact, it is reported that there is even a shortage of organic manure. Organic farmers meet strict criteria, including, for example, a closed nitrogen cycle. In other words, if all cow farmers had worked in this way, there would have been no phosphate surplus and in that sense they did not contribute to the surplus. This surplus is caused by farms that have more livestock than they can handle in manure. Recently I was visiting an organic dairy farm. A company under construction. Slowly started with dairy cows and always some cows, often born on the farm itself. A beautiful free range with two milking robots. Cows grow older than average. No derogation requested, because they do not produce more manure than they can lose. But they do have to slaughter a large part of their healthy, often young cows and to pay off that second robot in a while, the device still has to work and will have to buy expensive phosphate rights from 2018. While the phosphate surplus was not their fault, it is and will be, because it is a biological company. I find it strange to involve these farmers in the punishment. Good behavior, precisely that which contributes to our goals, is also being addressed. Instead of increasing the percentage of organic cows and rewarding them, they must bleed equally hard. Can the Secretary of State explain this again? The judge recently felt that it could not be explained. He looked at three cases: whether the scheme is laid down by law, whether the measure is justified by a general interest, and finally whether the measure is proportionate. The first two conditions are met, but on point three, the judge considers that the claimants in these cases are subject to a disproportionate burden. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how many farmers are in the same situation as the plaintiffs. How many can such a case be brought with a reasonable chance of success? How many have done that since the verdict? Then I come to the third measure, the marketable phosphate rights. A system of phosphate rights is not a bad idea. You know how much phosphate you can produce and logically you know how many cows can host the Netherlands. The way in which rights are distributed does raise questions. Here too, you can argue that land-based farmers are disadvantaged. After all, a farmer who had less than 2.5 cows per hectare at the reference date and could therefore in principle have expanded should now buy phosphate rights for this, while he may not still cross the border which leads to a higher phosphate load than he can bear. The SP therefore believes that farmers should be allowed to have 2.5 cows per hectare of land without having to have phosphate rights. The number of rights above them must be acquired. Making these allowances negotiable is, however, the worst thing you can do. That is not only my opinion; it is also not recommended by experts who spoke to our committee at the expert meeting. The Netherlands is about to allocate EUR 5 to 7 billion to dairy farming, to rights that will be worth a lot of money. We also know that this system will end, but we still have no idea what should happen to the rights. How do you explain that to the farmer who has put himself deep into debt to buy rights, and is then confronted with the lifting of the system? Does the farmer have to be bought out again at the end of that system? The House of Representatives is convinced that the phosphate duty system will expire by 2023, as the Netherlands is expected to fall below the phosphate ceiling. So that system is not intended for the long term, but in any case we will have to talk about how to prevent us from producing too much manure again. Can the Secretary of State explain to us why he does not opt for a system of non-negotiable rights, whereby the rights go back to the phosphate bank as a farmer, and can then be re-issued? In that case, you can also work towards achieving your goals, by giving those rights mainly to farmers who bring a sustainable livestock farming closer, for example because they feed their cows, because they contribute to closing the regional cycle or because they are extensive. It follows that applications for intensive livestock farms and mega-stables are in line at the end of the line. Should the Secretary of State still want to retain the marketable rights, I would like to hear from him how he is going to prevent us from running into a situation where too many cattle have been bought because they are responding to the abolition of expensive phosphate rights after 2023. Should the Dutch government compensate farmers because they have put themselves in debt for rights that have become worthless some time later? We are talking about many billions that the sector will eventually have to cough up itself. And what do they buy for it? A piece of paper or a right. Should not the purpose of these phosphate rights be to regulate the amount of manure and the quantity of dairy cows that the Netherlands can bear, i.e. nature and the population? Would it not be much better to introduce a publicly set-up bank that regulates these rights through a system of permits that does not cost the farmer money, but brings a balance between the producer and his surroundings, and that reduces the exploitation of the animal? For there is no doubt that if there is an expensive phosphate right system, it must either be subsidised by the government, that is to say by us, the taxpayers, or by the producer. The latter will then try to squeeze as much milk as possible from its animals. This is bad for the health and longevity of the cow and promotes a phosphate surplus again. In short, is the Secretary of State prepared to work out the option of a public phosphate bank and explain it alongside the current proposal? Depending on the answer given by the Secretary of State, I am prepared to make a proposal. I have to say that these measures have focused on the short-term, the maintenance of the derogation, but that once again there is no long-term vision. Let us now seize the opportunity to adopt a law that is sustainable for the longer term, which does live up to the ambitions and which certainly gives clarity to the farmers, because they need to know where they stand. Now we can opt for health, sustainability, animal welfare and fair bread for honest work in the long term. That is why I would suggest that we push and encourage organic and land-based dairy farmers and discourage intensive dairy farmers. As always, I look forward to the answers and the future vision of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. I've imagined a lot at the performance in the First Chamber, but not with a plaster bone. Still, I'd like to do it with that handicap. We are discussing two legislative proposals today. At the end of my speech, I will make a brief comment on the proposal for a directive on land-based growth in dairy farming, but I will deal mainly with the system of phosphate rights. That is what my fellow Members have done, with a look at the past and a look at the future. I will. After World War II, the Netherlands made a very special effort to secure food supplies. In conjunction with our location in the delta, this has led to a very innovative agricultural and horticultural sector of an impressive size, which produces much more than we need ourselves. Agriculture is therefore an important economic sector and is of great importance for Dutch exports. The other side of this has also become visible over the past 30 years: pollution of air, soil and water. The Netherlands is the largest animal manure producer per land area in the European Union. As a result, the dairy sector seems to be the victim of its own success; the industry is increasingly affected by legislation to curb manure production. Since 1987 we have known the Fertilisers Act in the Netherlands and since about 2000 the European Water Framework Directive and the Nitrates Directive provide frameworks and objectives for our country. Continuation of the derogation is an important starting point for the viability of the sector, but it must be constantly justified and scientifically substantiated in order to be preserved. The growth of the cattle sector has led to additional attention and research by the European Commission following the abolition of the milk quota system, given the concerns about poor water quality and the stagnant progress of packages of measures announced and implemented over the past 15 years. The Plan Bureau for the Environment therefore expects that the implementation gap will not be closed for the time being, in particular by the nutrient contribution of agriculture. That expectation is very recent, because it was only made public on 30 March last. A nice comparison is that with human manure, but the problem of human manure is soluble: since the 1970s and the entry into force of the Pollution Waters Act, all the sewage water in the Netherlands has been purified in large installations. That's what we're all paying for through the purification charge. The treatment efficiency of these plants reaches an average of 80 to 90%. Further optimization will be in the near future in the coming years. Animal manure, on the other hand, is spread across the land. Moreover, given the animal numbers in the Netherlands, the sector in its development depends on huge quantities of feed imported from Asia and South America. As a result, manure production is now much higher than the land and the crops can absorb. In some regions there is therefore more than 60% surplus. This means that our livestock sector is largely non-land-based and dependent on processing and exports to other countries, unlike most EU countries. Unfortunately, this situation is an undesirable breeding ground for manure fraud. In its evaluation of the fertiliser policy, the PBL came to some 30 to 40% fraud in some regions. This is a not negligible factor in the stagnant water quality. The Labour Party believes that it is important to minimise the risk of fraud, partly because this creates unfair competition for the well-intentioned companies. The recent evaluation of the PBL also calculates that the current costs of manure treatment amount to around 300 million. This contrasts somewhat with the 1.2 billion operating costs lost annually by the Netherlands in order to enable humane manure processing at a high quality level. And then I leave aside the size of the "human park" in comparison to that of the "animal park" the terms of the philosopher Peter Sloterdijk "Philosopher." In any case, it is clear that we have chosen an organisational model based on a utility principle for human manure processing, while the animal sector has a market model. With a growing world market, this has created an economic dynamic which will make it difficult or not to comply with environmental rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u150	Mr Verheijen talks about water quality and points to manure production in a rather one-dimensional way. I will come back to this later in my own contribution, but I have seen studies showing that the water quality in the Randstad is particularly worse than where the manure is produced; I have a map of Deltares and the PBL research with me. Can Mr Verheijen deepen how this can be done? He only points to farmers and manure, while it is also about things like sewer flooding, torment and waterbirds. Why does he focus only on the farmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u151	I'm not. There are many more sectors that still need to be strengthened. This has also led to a process in the Netherlands for a kind of delta plan to address water quality. They also deal with torture, birds and the like. The purifications will also be part of that. But we are discussing an agricultural dossier here today. We are talking about the contribution of the dairy sector. In my contribution, I focused on the part that can be attributed to it. In particular, it is clear from Chapters 8 and 9 of the Agency's evaluation that the surplus problem leads to the stagnant water quality that we recognise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u152	Let me reword my question: how do you explain that the Randstad has a worse water quality than the regions where the farmers are, especially in the east? I charge a little, by the way, because it's not sec de Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u153	The farmers are all over the Netherlands, also in the peat meadow area of the Randstad. In a number of areas we are dealing with peat that washes out, where there is a poor phosphate balance in the waters that does not improve because there is running water. There remains a residue of natural background load. This will, of course, have to be recognised in the further analyses under the Water Quality Delta Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u154	The water quality in the west, the Randstad, is less good than in the east, where the farmers produce the manure. That's short on the curve, but that's about it. We can't do that much about waterbirds either, but a sewer collapse is a major cause of the poor water quality in the west. Is it perhaps an idea to focus primarily on this, because the water quality there is worse than where the manure is produced?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u155	The image you're sketching is not correct. Pictures of the PBL show that the stagnation and decline in the west is now more severe than in the east and the south. But as far as the agricultural contribution is concerned, the analysis of the PBL is that the East and the South score the worst because of the surplus of manure produced there. I would be happy to discuss water quality in the western part of the Netherlands with you, but this is not directly related to the agricultural contribution. The PvdA Group has taken note of the government's policy response to the opinion of the Nijpels Committee on Sustainable Farming. We believe that this policy response does not yet provide sufficient answers to the question of which steering model should be used. The unilateral relocation of responsibility to the sector and the chain in 2013 has caused the current situation in the absence of regulatory power to intervene and remain below the sector phosphate ceiling. The ESC opinion and the government's policy response talk about sector plans and selective incentives through the pooling of subsidies. Given the current problems in the dairy sector, this approach seems to be too limited for the time being. In our view, a transition director without legal powers has too little control. I actually heard the same conclusion in the contribution of Mr D66. The possibility of setting levies, tackling freeriders and setting up bonus-malus systems has not been used in the abolition of the milk quota system and, as a result, insufficient results have been achieved in order to achieve the necessary transition. The proposals now being made to establish phosphate rights and the phosphate reduction plan do know these instruments. In the recent evaluation of fertiliser policy, the PBL provides an interesting analysis, in which it proposes a tilting of the hierarchical direction towards diagonal and participatory forms of policy arrangements with regional partners. The existing approach to the problem of manure runs counter to its limits, the PBL states. This evaluation is also the basis for the package of measures currently introduced by the Netherlands under the Sixth Nitrate Action Programme. We need to tackle the problem of manure. It is now clear that the Netherlands, with the size of its livestock, is at too high a risk in the light of the environmental restrictions in force and is in danger of constantly exceeding limits with the associated environmental damage, high regulatory pressure, fraud risks, possible loss of the derogation and default by the EU. One small comment is that we are not alone in this. In Germany, too, infringement proceedings are under way under the Nitrates Directive. The question is whether the recommendations of the PBL take sufficient account of the shortcomings of the agreement framework that we assumed in 2013 and 2014, for example, the prediction made by the Agriculture Economic Institute in 2013 that there would be no excessive growth in livestock and phosphate production. That opinion of the LEI was an important basis for Parliament's decision-making to agree to abolish the milk quota scheme. It would be appropriate for the PBL to take this into account in its evaluation of fertiliser policy. Nor does the PBL's study evaluate the causes of the current situation. His recommendations in chapter 9 show many similarities with policy suggestions that I thought were: where have I read this before? In the 1990s there was also a manure debate with a very strong political character, a highlight or if you like a low point. I refer here, for example, to the Sturing note on the Maat of the Ministry of LNV of 1994 and the booklet Renewal of the rural area of Driessen and Glasbergen of the Wageningen University. Those who are interested in the different dung scenarios that played then and who are playing again now, should read the book The Manure Marsh of Frits Bloemendaal from 1995. In it you will find all these discussions. The question is whether the recommendations of the PBL of today, in 2017, will help us by presenting a new polder model. Is that enough to pull us out of the current dung swamp? The debate in the 1990s, which is similar to the current situation, was concluded with the famous Restructuring Law on pig farming with a generic discount from former Minister Van Aartsen, which was concluded by his successor Brinkhorst with a phosphate buy-back scheme. We know that the government is still coming up with a response to the PBL evaluation, but it seemed sensible for the PvdA Group to come forward with some reflections on this report now in preparation for the follow-up. In that review, I would like to ask the following questions. Can the Secretary of State comment today on the prediction presented by the PBL, in which the Netherlands still does not comply with the European framework in 2027? In what way can this legislative proposal Institution Phosphorus Rights make a structural contribution to a sustainable agricultural and dairy sector that has a long-term balance with its environment and is not constantly shocked by large fluctuations and exceedances in environmental taxes? In the State Secretary's view, is the use of phosphate rights that are reduced in the event of transfer sufficient to meet the objective of land-relatedness? Could the percentage possibly be increased in order to achieve this objective? In other words, can there be a substantial increase in the ground-boundness of the sector, so that the pressure on the manure market can be reduced and fraud eliminated? Does the Secretary of State consider that there is a need for additional instruments, as highlighted in the PBL study? Is the government also considering a stronger commitment to spatial, area-oriented measures with a rich instrumentality, given regional differences? If that's not the case, why wouldn't we? Within what time does the Secretary of State intend to reduce the pressure on the manure market and end the current manure fraud and with what instruments, if enforcement in itself does not produce enough results? I come to the second important point, the proportionality of the reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u156	You have some interesting considerations. Among other things, you emphasise the issue of manure fraud. You are talking about ground-boundness, which should in principle increase, I listen to. How do you assess the present bill? I have just argued that the current regulation is extremely complex and unclear, which could lead to more fraud. In addition, the ground-boundness is only partially guaranteed. Would you like to make amendments to the present legislative proposals to this effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u157	Today we are discussing the transposition of the AMvB into a formal law. The debate was held in 2015. My group now has no reason to ask for substantial changes in its content. In fact, we are proposing that the bill be adopted today. However, we call for a sustainable vision of the sector to be developed in the context of the evaluations and the opinions of the ESC in order to clarify where we are going in the future. This includes taking into account past experience. For me, the current legislative proposal is sufficient to do what needs to be done today, namely to lay the foundations for the intervention that must take place in order to comply with the derogation requirements. We are happy to discuss with the government in the coming months what else will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u158	We're talking about a law with a phosphate rights system that just goes into effect by 2018. Does it now meet all the things you have just outlined? I was just saying that, in my opinion, the law doesn't promote enough ground-boundness. Companies that are well on their way are hit just as hard. In my opinion, the complexity of the legislation is also a problem. So my question is whether the law actually complies with what you have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u159	Normally, we wait for the Secretary of State to answer the questions before we reach our final conclusion. It is clear, however, that there is a great deal of interest in establishing the phosphate rights system today, so that at least the basis for complying with European directives and also with the derogation requirements can be laid down. Moreover, I do not agree with other colleagues there, I believe that the system of rights can work properly. There are many scientific studies on environmental economy that state that a system of rights and also marketability in the system of rights can contribute to achieving sustainability objectives. In that sense, I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u160	Last time, Mrs. Fox. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u161	Do you not see the danger that expensive phosphate rights will only be accessible to farmers with a lot of capital and large farms and that this system will not work out well for more extensive farms, organic farms?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u162	I will come back to that in the last part of my contribution, so please wait for that. We are in favour of taking into account different types of business and what they have or have not added to the emergence of the problem and also the stage in the development of the business. Several colleagues have already said that today. We are aware that this is a complicated job. The experts in the hearing warned us about this. There are three categories, namely the soil-based and/or organic holdings, the small rare breeds, such as the sheetfielders and, for example, the meat cattle, and the plagues, the common companies that invested in their business development aimed at the growth of the cattle population and said that they could not know that there would be a generic discount, for example because the law on ground-boundity was only finally approved by the States General shortly before the announcement of 2 July 2015. The PvdA stands for a fair application of the discount. For us, this means that land-based companies should be excluded from the generic discount. These farms do not contribute to the surplus manure. If all farms applied this principle, there would be no overpressure on the current manure market and regulatory pressure and enforcement pressure would be accordingly limited. We are pleased to note that, in any case, the scheme is designed in such a way that land-based companies can be excluded from the generic reduction of phosphate rights necessary to bring the amount of allowances to be granted in line with the phosphate ceiling. Given this fact, we have some questions. The issue of discussion is, in particular, the category of organic farms which are not land-based but which sell their surplus to another organic farm. This closed cycle situation could, in our opinion, also be covered by the exemption. Why doesn't the Secretary of State choose this? In answering questions we have asked, it appears that the government also has a legal reason for the choice it makes in this respect. The mandatory designation of sensitive areas in the Nitrates Directive seems to be an obstacle to individual assessment of the business situation, even if they comply with the letter of the European regulation. Can the Secretary of State explain what kind of obstacle we are encountering here? Why can this not be brought into line with what seems to be at least the letter and spirit of the European regulation? In the meantime, there are also legal procedures which call into question the legality of the rebates, with, as we have noted, a preliminary positive result for the entrepreneurs who have brought the proceedings. The government's response to this was read this weekend in the letter of 12 May. In our opinion, the government's letter gives a clear response to the legal situation following the ruling of the Hague judge. We consider the clarification of the criteria and the working methods of the committee to be transparent. However, the House of Representatives will hold another debate on it. That is what my group in this Chamber awaits. We would ask the Secretary of State whether this has given definitive clarity to the position of the companies with rare pet breeds, such as sheetfielders and blister heads. Given the cultural and historical importance and marginal contribution to phosphate production, we believe that this category should be absolutely protected from the generic discount. Does the Secretary of State agree with my group? This debate concerns two legislative proposals which both aim to ensure that dairy farming in its development complies with existing environmental frameworks. The Law on land-based growth dairy farming concerns the procedural transposition of the AMvB previously discussed by the Court. The members of the PvdA Group note the need for a long-term future perspective for the dairy sector, taking into account the various future requirements for CO, welfare, landscape, biodiversity and social embedding. The PvdA Group is not in favour of a choice to waive the derogation. We still see landscape, welfare and environmental benefits in maintaining our grasslands in the outskirts and the cows associated with them. The pressure on the derogation is, in our view, a reason for making a more detailed analysis than has been the case at present. For example, the PBL study mentions only financial effects. We would like to have a study on more advantages and disadvantages linked to the derogation. Such an analysis could therefore address landscape, soil, air and well-being aspects and provide additional arguments. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have such a study carried out? We are curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u163	Mr. Chairman. As with the treatment of the Nature Protection Act and the treatment of windmills at sea, I do not confine myself to gathering information only to what comes to us through the Cabinet. In dealing with the Nature Protection Act, for example, I questioned the totally arbitrary principles of the PBL, where biodiversity was concerned. For example, it ignored all water biodiversity. As far as ammonia is concerned, all the expensive measures that farmers have had to take with regard to the injection of manure appear to have had no demonstrable effect, other than that farmers report that life in the soil is disappearing as a result of acidification: mega-investment, no effect. Figures from the CBS on nutrient surplus show that this is no longer the case for phosphorus. There is an equilibrium fertilization. The Water Framework Directive places farmers at a disadvantage in relation to nature conservation organisations. In two polders in Utrecht, the permitted nitrogen emissions for farmers are a factor four below the standard, but for Natural Monuments a factor four above the standard. Now let's talk about the valuable product manure. Now let's also talk about the valuable product phosphate, like CO a building block of life. However, in the meantime, these two substances seem to be poisonous due to infinite left-wing wailing. As I have just said in a small debate with Mr Verheijen, I found that water quality in the Randstad is worse than where the manure is produced. The causes are torment, geese and sewers and are therefore not among the farmers, who are also the direct object of this bill today. Where do I see that in policy, I ask the Secretary of State. Has this been announced in Brussels, for example? It seems that ideology is presented as ecology, where the government sees the farmer as the only variable where ecological policy needs to be formulated, while we have the best and most innovative farmers in the world. In addition to picking on cars, farmer bullying seems to be another important time use here. A left-wing hobby, if you like. More generally, everyone who makes an economic contribution is slowly suspect. So it is good that a motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives to see whether political-ideological reasons have not been given the upper hand by various organizations that are considered to be independent and scientific. This phosphate right too, however you turn or turn, is the result of Brussels interference and a consequence of the waste of our sovereignty. This Secretary of State goes with the hat in his hand to the Commissioner to maintain the derogation. The Commissioner has taken no account of his CV of any affinity with the agricultural sector, but he can therefore determine from his ivory tower how many farmers in the Netherlands go bankrupt or not. The PVV doesn't accept that. And how much proof do you want that we should be dealing with our own laws and regulations? In an interim action, the Hague Court upheld a number of farmers who were opposed to the phosphate reduction plan 2017. Now the Secretary of State wants to make it look like that plan isn't related to the bill we're discussing right now. We find this incomprehensible, especially in view of the problem of the regulation. If you cannot implement a 2017 arrangement, the starting point for this law is indeed quite different for 2018 and beyond, as I say to Mr Schnabel. The court ruled that farmers who have made irreversible investments and are therefore unreasonably hard hit were excluded from the scheme. The arrangement was unforeseen. They even thought that they had complied with the other law, the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. They are therefore allowed to grow and produce phosphate. It's no different with organic farmers. They are not part of the problem, but they are cut short. The judge thought that was unreasonable and unfair. They were therefore excluded from the scheme. It was the Secretary of State himself who did not want these parties to be covered. In doing so, he has brought the legal calamity upon himself. As far as we are concerned, however you turn or turn, this is a bomb under this proposal, because how many parties are now going to support this legal ruling? How many can stand behind it? All questions about numbers have so far been left unanswered by the Secretary of State, but let me try again. Can the Secretary of State quantify how many farmers are in the same situation as the litigants? Can he quantify how many phosphate rights we're talking about? Can he indicate how this relates to the phosphate rights to be distributed? And if not, how should we proceed with this proposal? Is there going to be a generic discount? How high is it for the remaining farmers? I would like to have a concrete response to this. Perhaps this will also open a legal door for those who have a well-balanced soil quality in business-specific situations. They are also subject to a general regime which does not take into account individual or regional land qualities. That too is, in fact, unreasonable. In short: does the house of cards not collapse when large groups are declared outside the scheme? But even without this ruling by the judge, you might expect us here as representatives of the people not to agree to a law the Secretary of State does not know how many people are going to go bankrupt, with a law that harms parties that do not give rise to the whole phosphate debate, with a law that kills entrepreneurs who invested in good faith or at least seriously harms them. You should expect that. Experience has shown that you can get home from a bad carnival. Without the marketability of phosphate rights, which according to a few would bring dynamism here, the sector would be locked up according to the Secretary of State. There would be no more innovation. If that is true, then that is only true, because trading rights will at least make the sector less varied, and so will our landscape. Only for cows that produce the most, rights will be bought. I have heard this in other contributions before. For rare breeds suckler cows, the rights become priceless. Those sectors are closing down. The government has made a mess of it and has not been attentive to what happened in the sector, despite all the clues. Through the buy-back scheme, taxpayers can also contribute to the resolution of this policy. How does that relate to the buy-back scheme? How will they be excluded from the problem regulation and the generic discount? Is it all still to be seen? The government has saddled the sector with so much administrative ballast that in the meantime an administrative employee must stand next to each cow. If there is a wrong check mark somewhere on a form, the PBL screams that the whole sector is cheating. Last but not least, this policy will lead to the slaughter of 160,000 cows. I haven't heard from anyone about that. Mr Koffeman has not yet taken his turn, so perhaps we will hear something about it. We are having a parliamentary discussion about the Oostvaardersplassen, where we are spending hundreds of millions in non-working ecoducts, but here we are going to bring 160,000 healthy Dutch cows to slaughter. They will be so proud in Brussels! What are we supposed to do? We need to get back to the drawing board. I think I'm ready for plan D or E today. We need to get back to the drawing board, away from the paper reality of high offices. Understand how the phosphate deposition of farmers relates to all other sources and not just count the number of cows. If the Secretary of State or the Commissioner does not want to know, then perhaps it is an idea to wait for the fine if Brussels is threatening to do so, but not after Brussels first collects the fines from those countries that have not complied with all the other treaties, for example the Stability Pact. The amount of undistributed fines is now 113 billion. If the Netherlands is allowed to receive its share back, we are still a bacon buyer. But then we must have a Secretary of State or, more generally, directors who stand up for the Netherlands, for the Dutch interest and ultimately for our great farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u164	As long as we're dealing with numbers: those 160,000 cows have been mentioned by me and others. The 300,000 cows that threaten to be slaughtered if the derogation would not continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u165	Or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u166	...are really called, you know. You can say that those numbers have not been mentioned, but they have been mentioned. You may have already written that they have not been mentioned, but that is why it is not yet true. About the fines that are not paid: I would remind you that the Netherlands is going to get money back from Brussels because the collection of the fines has brought in so much this year. Those aren't Dutch fines. I would just like to say this to you because you have repeatedly pointed this out. I think it's okay to keep looking at it in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u167	I hope I do not have to tell Mr Schnabel what the net payment to Brussels is from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u168	You always pretend that's some kind of punitive situation. We are members of the EU. It has already been said to you that we are a member of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u169	Yes, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u170	We signed all these contracts ourselves. We have chosen to do so as co-founder of the European Union. All these cases have been confirmed here, too. It's a little too easy. I must honestly admit that politicians, including ministers and secretaries of state, sometimes tend to say something too easy: Brussels must do it. I have to say that I have noticed the following on this very difficult dossier, this very sensitive one; I think we agree on that. So far no one, at least in the documents I have seen and in the letters I have received, has said for a moment that you have received other letters: it is a disgrace what Brussels is doing to us. In fact, everyone assumes that: this is a fact, it is not about what Brussels says at that point but that Brussels has a mission to monitor what we have agreed with each other, namely that drinking water quality must be maintained, which is threatened by the level of phosphate emissions. I think it is important to say that, because I expected there would be more reactions like: you see, Brussels is doing that to us again! In the letters and in the documents I have read, I have actually found nothing of that. Everyone simply assumes that we are wrong and that we must do something about it. That is the conclusion that we will all have to draw, I fear, however unpleasant its impact on the Dutch agricultural sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u171	I don't know if those were questions, but I'm gonna go into them anyway. Of course, the Netherlands has signed treaties. That is true, of course, but Spain, Portugal and France have also signed the Maastricht Treaty on the Stability Pact. They were not fined for breach of budgetary discipline. Of course, we signed up for that. That is precisely why I am in favour of us having to deal with this ourselves. Then we can deal much more flexibly with the situation we have now, for example. Spain and Portugal have recently become more flexible in their budget. And that is clearly allowed by Brussels, because it does not share any fines. Let's talk about the numbers. The number of cows has been mentioned, I would like to give you this, but I have not seen any number of entrepreneurs who are really in trouble because of this legislation. I have heard them, where they are going to sue and where lawyers have said: 400 people have already applied to me. So yes, numbers have been mentioned, but I am particularly curious about the number of companies that are in difficulty as a result of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u172	Finally, Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u173	Well, that's obvious now. You spoke about the numbers of cows, and you said with a slightly accusing tone that no one cares about them and that no one has mentioned them. I must simply deny that on behalf of my fellow Members. That's exactly how it happened. It's something that each of us, of course, really cares about. It is a question of healthy, good animals which, because of irresponsible market behaviour, have also been discussed, have fallen into a situation in which they have to fall victim, in which they have to be killed to ensure that we do not lose, as it were, the future of our agriculture. I continue to find that tragic, with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u174	Well, that's what we're gonna do. You are talking about the market, but there is hardly any market in agricultural policy. It is precisely the market that has tried to adapt to the changing rules. The government subsequently amended those rules with retroactive effect. That's where it goes wrong. I believe that we agree on this dossier more often than we might like. But here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u175	Mr. Chairman. "Crying over spilled milk," a situation in which crying makes no sense because the unfortunate incident has already taken place and doesn't help a dear mother to correct the incident. That sweet little mother is very applicable to dairy farming, in which infants have to be slaughtered on a large scale, because their milk is claimed by humans. That is sad enough in itself, but now the mothers are being led to the slaughter. Could we have seen that coming? Mr Dercksen, in any case. In fact, we saw it coming. On 17 March 2015, we discussed the Responsible Growth Act for Dairy Farming. I quote the reassuring words the Secretary of State spoke in this house at the time. "The law that is now there is absolutely enough. If the phosphate ceiling is exceeded, animal rights for dairy will be introduced. On the basis of the ex-ante evaluations, we can expect that the Netherlands will not exceed the ceiling. The conditions for this are in the hands of the sector itself." It was the disastrous path of ultra-short-term thinking, the development of the agricultural economy of more for less, in all respects. More animals, less income; more stables, fewer farmers; more mega stables, fewer family farms; more animal diseases, less safe housing for citizens; more exports and a less stable climate. For years we heard in commercials about "milk, the white engine" and heard the claim that "milk would be good for each." Cow milk is indeed very good, but especially for newborn calves. Kalfjes which are taken from their mother immediately after their birth. The megamorphosis of dairy farming has caused the low prices of that breast milk. The milk quotas had to and would disappear. LTO promised cows with golden horns. 1 April 2015 was called Liberation Day by the farmers. April 1st, Chairman, much liberation has not come of it. Massively, the farmers were going to keep more cows, and the milk price dropped. Was that foreseeable? Yes, of course that was foreseeable. Scaling up does not lead to income security for farmers but to vulnerable farms. Tens of millions of euros are being released to allow an industry that has caused itself problems, by self-regulation, to postpone execution. That postponement of execution did not apply to the milk cow itself. More than 100,000 have been sacrificed on the altar of the economy. There is hardly any mention of the suffering caused by cows. It's about calculation models, feed tracks, derogation and, above all, millions of grants like patches on a stinking wound. How can a system like this ever be justified? The Secretary of State should have shown leadership. The dairy farmers feel the same way. The farmers complained to The Hague: why has no one stopped us, for example with rules? I would also like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Why didn't anyone stop the farmers? In dairy farming, it is currently wretched and tormented. False choices by some of the farmers and the government have brought about problems across the whole sector. After releasing the quota, a relatively small proportion, 10 to 20%, of dairy farmers expanded the livestock as a mad cow and increased milk production. In some cases these cowboys have doubled their production. The "cowmunities," megasthals with cows that are never allowed out again, shot like mushrooms out of the ground. The government, the farmers' representatives, the dairy processors and the lenders drank a glass, created a milk puddle and left the business as it was. In the treatment of the Milk Cattle Act, before the quota was released, the Animal Party warned against the disastrous consequences of an ongoing increase in production for both the price of milk and nature, the environment and animal welfare. However, according to the experts consulted by the Ministry and the sector, this would not happen. The price would rise rather than fall. After all, the Netherlands was the milkman of China. It couldn't finish. The supply of European milk has not exceeded the initial quota since the quota was released, and yet the price fell. It fell so badly that the European buy-back scheme had to be called upon. Since the release of the quota, more than 3 billion kilos of milk, in the form of milk powder and cheese, have been stored in European warehouses. Those are images we hadn't seen in a long time. The price of milk is getting worse, but above all because milk is being milked less in the rest of Europe and because Europe is still taking milk powder out of the market. A year ago, the chairman of the board of FrieslandCampina, Roelof Joosten, said in Het Financieele Dagblad about the milk that his company processes: the first 5 billion litres of milk is very profitable; the next 2 billion we make nothing and the last 3 billion we lose money. Half of all milk is processed with loss. This loss is made up with superprofits on the other half. Under the line, there is still an acceptable milk price for every farmer. This has been the case since the birth of FrieslandCampina in 2007. At least half of the Dutch market has been processed and sold at a loss for more than a decade. This does not even mean that the social costs, the externalities, of the milk are not taken into account. €0.20 to €0.70 per litre of milk are social costs that the Dutch citizen must bear without knowing for himself. This is about €440 per citizen per year at social costs associated with dairy farming. Dairy farming is costing us all more than it will cost us. Against this background, it is bizarre that the Netherlands, in particular, was committed to releasing the quota. The huge price drop resulting from the release of the quota has put large groups of dairy farmers, with the exception of organic and biologically dynamic farmers, in serious financial difficulties. So now there is a new obstacle: phosphate law. It is a very expensive, but it seems inevitable way to get a half empty stable full of cows. More milk inevitably means more manure. In the run-up to releasing milk production, the sector did not want to know of any obstacles. The sector made a solemn promise that it would ensure that it would not, under any circumstances, shoot through the phosphate ceiling, the self-regulation that Mr Schaap praised. It would go wild, but the opposite turned out to be true. On 2 July 2015, the State Secretary reported to the sector: until here and no further. But the sector continued to grow undisturbed. There was an arrangement and it has already been amended three times. There is a court ruling which almost certainly forces a new adaptation. In the meantime, 400 farmers have come forward and are also going to court. What this means for the reduction of the individual entrepreneur remains dark. The Secretary of State has appealed, but that should not be a reason to clarify here and now at last how it could have happened and what the Secretary of State is going to do to keep the major problems in dairy farming at long last. I am not asking for patchwork but for structural solutions to a structural problem. I'd like to get a reaction to this. In the meantime, both LTO and the Secretary of State have been encouraged to report that reducing the phosphate surplus would be almost on track. But if you look at the Monitor Phosphate Reduction Package of April 2017, you will see that the reduction of phosphate takes place mainly on paper and not on land. The reduction must take place along three tracks: the feed, the stopper system and the reduction of livestock. The monitor shows that animal feed manufacturers have significantly reduced phosphorus levels, but dairy farmers are not alarmed by this, if only because they are still able to use the so-called phosphorous, a phosphorous pulse with a long after-effects that is used in cows that have just calved and are suffering from phosphorus deficiency. In other words, it seems that the reductions in phosphorus content in the feed are correct, but can be avoided in the stable. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The stopper scheme initially seemed to be a major success, but a stopper scheme only has effect if not only the number of cows but also production is reduced. As far as we are concerned, it is part of a real stopper system that the barn is broken down and permits are handed in. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. According to LTO, almost 100,000 milking cattle have been transported, slaughtered or exported from the Netherlands in recent months. In the case of exports, it should be noted that many cows are temporarily parked in Belgium. That is not a solution, but a shift in the problem in a sector where there is also a problem, Mr Verheij has already said it is because of large-scale manure fraud, not only in the case of farmers in Brabant or Limburg, but also in the case of dozens of farmers in Friesland. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use more manpower at NVWA, because it is becoming increasingly clear that the reported cases are just the tip of an immeasurable pile of manure? I'd like to hear a response. Most of the cows that are disposed of are low-productive cows. Either they're sick or they're old. Last year tens of thousands of these animals were imported into the Netherlands. This group of cows produces below average and also produces less phosphate. But these cows are, as far as we have been able to verify, fully included. A cow with low phosphate production goes away, while it is struck at the 41.3 kilograms of a high-productive dairy cow. For example, phosphate production on paper is reduced more than in reality. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Many farmers will, despite the reduction in the number of cows, produce almost the same amount of milk. This can be done by feeding more, in combination with three times a day instead of milking twice a day. But more milk per cow also means more manure, and therefore more phosphate per cow. In this way phosphate production decreases on paper, but increases in the stable. Is there any insight into the extent of this effect? I'd like to hear a response. LTO warned about negative animal welfare effects. Farmers would be less inclined to pasture due to the reduction measures. Furthermore, there are, of course, animal welfare aspects in increasing production per cow. We would like the phosphate reduction plan to be complemented by a mandatory grazing area and a maximum number of kilos of milk that can be milked per cow. This should be a step towards a more comprehensive plan to balance dairy farming with the market, nature, the environment, animal welfare and the environment. The knife must be drastically in Dutch milk production for the simple reason that here in the Netherlands cannot be produced for a competitive price. The highest boss of the biggest milk processor says so himself. Half-life of Dutch milk production would be the end of many farms, and this needs a decent solution. If we do not take on board the reform of dairy farming ourselves, the market will do so soon. Then it becomes an icy clean-up in which more blood will flow for humans and animals, with the same result. With this difference however: almost certainly only the big cowboys will remain. For lenders, they are "too big to fail." We can't let that happen. 1,000 family farms, according to the Rabobank even more, up to 10% of the total, are about to stop. The VVD welcomes this through Mr Schaap. The Party for Animals doesn't approve of that. In this sense, the Party for Animals appears to be more a party for farmers than the VVD. The positions of these family farms are taken by the cowboys who banish the cows from the Dutch pastures and continue to hunt down the production per animal. Can the Secretary of State promise that he'll limit himself to that? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. There are limits to literally milking out without the need for defenceless animals. We will have to define these limits here and now, so that we do not have to debate with even more butter on our heads in the near future on a depopulated countryside, on serious animal welfare, nature and climate problems, and on meadows without cows and without meadow birds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u176	Mr. Chairman. One of those many letters that we have received recently is about the patchwork of legislation, about a government that comes up with more and more detailed legislation, about constant uncertainty and about chaos. And indeed, that is the image that emerges from everything that has happened after the abolition of the milk quota. There is also the image that Dutch politics, the agricultural policy, swarms between two things. On the one hand, we want to make full use of the free world market where, according to the report The power of dairy, annual demand for dairy would increase by up to 3%. On the other hand, there is also sympathy for the family farm, grazing and animal welfare, land-basedness and the circular economy applied to livestock farming. We feel obliged to work with phosphate rights in order to comply with the derogation standard, or indeed water quality requirements, because of the environment, but the government states directly in the note following the report that it is intended to make full use of all available phosphate rights so that they do not remain on the shelf. Hence, these rights become negotiable. This way they remain available to continue producing milk. At the same time, we are adopting motions calling for land-based livestock farming, based on the capacity of our own soil and not on the market. The fact that politics does not have a clear perspective, not for politics and therefore not for farmers. I'm not the first to conclude this afternoon. The requirements that we have to impose because of the derogation, a reduction in the amount of manure and phosphate produced, are different from what we took as a starting point in the Fertilisers Act. That was: livestock farming for milk production is possible if manure production is used on land, can be exported or can be processed. In fact, this was a choice for the largest possible production of our highly productive, competitive and still more animal-friendly dairy farming, with the task of ensuring that the manure ends up properly. In the meantime, should we not admit that the fact that milk production and thus the production of manure have been allowed without limits has failed because the processing of manure does not come from the ground due to technical and financial reasons and that, as a result, a large part of the manure that should actually be processed is dumped illegally? That happens not only in Brabant, but also in Friesland. Meanwhile, the call for production to be adapted to the limits we impose on soil and soil has become louder, including in politics. That call can no longer be ignored, hence the amendment of the Fertilisers Act with what is called the Law on Ground-Bound Growth Dairy Farming. But of course a choice of ground-boundness is not really a matter for decision. It means nothing more than that, in the case of business expansion, no more than a small part of the enlargement must be compensated by having more land available. On balance, this does not mean more but less land-boundness because of these extra land-based extensions. Or am I wrong about that? We talk a lot about groundboundness, but in the policy we choose as much production as possible. This is hampered by the strict requirements of the European Union through the Water Framework Directive, the Nitrates Directive and the requirements of the derogation. An in-depth question is what our environment would be like if there were no European Union to monitor standards. The way in which we try to meet these demands is, of course, problematic. In 2017, everyone has to go back to the situation of 2 July 2015 minus another 4%. That is bad for almost everyone, but for those who had just invested in advance and did not have any extra livestock, it can be disastrous. It feels unjust for the completely land-based farmers who are exempt from the 4% discount but are not allowed to make use of the investments in their additional land still available. For organic farmers who do not even make use of the derogation, it is even more unjust if possible. The judge agrees with these groups because in this way, even according to the judge, there is an unjustified intervention in the right of ownership under the First Protocol of the ECHR. The meat sector, which may remain outside the scheme after some changes, is still very unclear. Does the Secretary of State really think that he is getting rid of the judgment by exempting only the 52 complainants from the measures and simply excluding all similar cases from the scheme? Does he really think that the appeal will put him in the right place? I would at least have my doubts about that and try to come up with a plan B. Or are we already failing to meet the derogation standards? Then there are the farmers who focus on the ancient patriotic races. Several people have already spoken about this, so I'm gonna leave it at that. However, I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would also amend the law after the regulation. The question remains what we should do now, given all the problems. If we agree to the two legislative proposals and also to the measures for this year, then I fear that everyone will still feel that they do not know where and when another problem can arise and certainly not know where we really want to go with our policies. So this is not really a policy, it's just an emergency grip to solve the acute problem and then not have to look much further. In Friesland, an agricultural paper was issued this week by the College of Delegates, which sets out the ambition to have a largely land-based agriculture by 2025. That doesn't mean radical surgery all of a sudden. Moreover, the province does not have the legal remedies available to the Empire. However, if Provincial States agree with these plans, the direction of provincial policy is clearly defined. Given the possibilities, such a choice of landboundness could be the only socially truly acceptable option. A system of so many livestock units per hectare makes further complicated regulation unnecessary. It also offers protection and care of land and water and landscape and nature. It is also naturally part of grazing and makes it easier than more intensive livestock farming to create an animal-friendly situation. In addition, it can provide ample returns for family businesses. Perhaps it is necessary for land to be regionalised, by linking livestock farms to agricultural land. Nor is it impossible for a closed and affordable system of manure treatment to provide opportunities for other forms alongside regular land-based livestock farming in the future. But I have a feeling that's not the case right now. Choosing ground-boundness may be a choice that gives clarity, but it cannot be without a comprehensive and therefore fairly long transitional policy. In any case, the measures currently designed do not fit in with such a long-term choice in all respects. This would be much better if phosphate rights were not made negotiable, but only legitimised existing rights, and if the expansion of livestock should not depend on the purchase of phosphate rights but on the availability and purchase of land. At any rate, what needs to be done is the time to launch a genuinely new and future-proof policy. I do not assume that the Secretary of State will immediately waive his legislation, but with my observation that this would be the appropriate time, he might agree. And who knows, the circumstances or the court or this Chamber will force him to make further adjustments. In addition to all the other benefits it brings, this could make the lives of farmers and rulers easier and make it easier to comply with European environmental requirements and also lead to substantial cuts in departmental officials. I would very much like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u177	Mr. Chairman. Our agricultural policy has become complicated, with a forest of rules and administrative burdens. Somewhere in the middle of that forest we are today. What a blessing it would be if there were simplification in this area for the sector, but also for politics itself. The debate today is a bit out of the question, but also in Mr Ten Hoeve's contribution I am listening to some sort of cri de coeur in order to make it a little easier. The complexity is because we are in a system of dependencies, of rules and of European frameworks. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, in our agricultural policy, we are trying to grow from that system of dependencies to a system of balances. That is what my group is looking for today. Those who are too reckless on one of the buttons in that system of dependencies are directly unbalanced. Greater balance between environmental taxes and responsible production is achieved in dairy farming by reducing fertilisers, reducing livestock levels and restoring cycles, tied to land and for local and environmental functions. Balance also includes a healthy perspective for many family farms that want to live and survive in a sector in which the dairy farmer is price-taker and barely able to influence the conditions of the market. The only way they can increase their own income, in addition to processing products or otherwise broadening their business, is by increasing production. But when farmers turn that button, the waterbed problems arise in a different place, with all the consequences. This happened in 2015, when the milk quota disappeared and unbridled growth took place. What seemed to the individual company to be a rational choice, collectively became a "tragedy of the commons." We need to talk today about phosphate reduction plans for 2017, but I also want to talk about the longer term. What we have to assess is the emergency measures to stay below the permitted phosphate ceiling to safeguard the derogation, but also the question of the future of agriculture. How do we move towards a system of balances, as I have mentioned? How do we get a sector that can produce sustainably and is in balance with environment and landscape? How do we get a sector with a future perspective for young farmers? We want to know from the Secretary of State how this crisis policy is linked to the prospect of sustainable agriculture and viable farms. The dairy sector has traditionally been literally defining for Dutch agriculture and our landscape. It must remain that way, in a sustainable way. It is quite clear that after the Dutch livestock industry started to exceed the phosphate ceiling from the beginning of 2015, intervention was required. The derogation was at stake. Under the influence of the phosphate reduction plan, phosphate production already fell by 4.5 million kilograms to 175 million kilograms in the first quarter of this year. That's going the right way. Are we gonna be able to get under the ceiling this year? That question was asked by many here this afternoon. What effect will court rulings have on this if hundreds of companies go to trial and ask for exemption? A sensitive issue linked both to the judgment of the court and to the observations of the Council of State which have already been made relates to the interference by the government in ownership rights, inter alia by maintaining a single reference date. How does the Secretary of State assess this element of the criticism which the Council of State has already expressed and which has shown in this respect? At least, according to the court for the time being. Is it realistic to hope that the bottleneck regime provided for by the law will provide rapid and sufficient relief in this respect? Many dairy farmers have put their hopes on this. However, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the problem regulation, which has been discussed several times this afternoon. We would like to hear more from the Secretary of State in this debate. On the basis of the amendment by CDA and ChristenUnion, the problem of conflict is now being worked out by a committee, but how much phosphate space does the emergency committee receive from the Secretary of State? Anyone who takes the figures on cessation of farming sees a huge reduction in the number of dairy farms. Therefore, a question about the stopper control, in addition to the feed track and the phosphate reduction scheme, the third instrument in this plan. How sensitive is this regulation for speculation? Could it be that dairy farmers who now make use of this scheme in theory simply start their farms again on the basis of the phosphate rights granted? A lively trade in phosphate rights is already under way. Is that going to be a problem in practice? What does the Secretary of State think about that? I come to the laws themselves. The law on phosphate rights is far-reaching for Dutch dairy farming. It is difficult to see whether the derogation has been secured until the autumn. This creates a lot of uncertainty in the sector. The law is based on the assumption that the derogation can be secured in the future. I'd like to hear more from the Secretary of State. What does he expect himself to do? What efforts are being made in Brussels to secure the derogation definitively? The measures intervene deeply, but are they also working in the right direction? Who stops supplies land and this contributes to the struggle for the scarce space, in which the capitalists win it. Will it be that only the scaling-up companies will be able to survive in a market in which large agri-food companies expand the stakes? Young farmers and relatively extensive farms would then suffer from the introduction of the phosphate rights system. We want a future for the sector, for more organic farming and a sustainable method of production with closed cycles. The strengthening of a technical and scientific approach within the set standards and requirements does not necessarily bring us any closer there. Which way do we want to go in the Netherlands? I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State on this point. In the short and medium term, we are robbing off and tightening up all kinds of conditions for land-based growth, but what perspective is there for a new generation of farmers who want to take over businesses? My group is very concerned about this. Current skimming efforts and possibly costly phosphate rights will make it more difficult for young entrepreneurs to take over a business in the future and at higher costs. What are they going to do if they are going to have to pay for expensive phosphate rights instead of an expensive milk quota? How can this complex system be more balanced with good and wrong incentives? What role can the phosphate bank play in this, in which skimmed phosphate rights will end up? Can the Secretary of State use the phosphate bank as a "future bank" for young farmers, for those who have just taken over a business? These are urgent questions with regard to dairy farmers who are constantly getting caught up between rules, who have the task of reducing their emissions and who may be given too low a milk price to be able to produce responsibly on a permanent basis. I am very curious to see the Secretary of State's view on the future of the phosphate bank. Can they play an exciting and stimulating role, including for start-ups and vulnerable and not so capital-intensive companies? It is not fair for farmers to pay for the imbalance that has arisen. For the small and perhaps great disaster that has arisen today, others bear the responsibility: money providers, interest groups, customers, retail and government. There is also a lot of unpriced scarcity, and that is what we are talking about. Supermarkets should also be aware of this. They should ask for a "fairer" price for milk and thus support a more sustainable agriculture. In a system of balance, we do not shift the consequences to a single group, but try to bear each other's burdens. However, the transition to a more balanced approach must be made together. This calls for solidarity which is now under pressure in the sector. As something that makes clear, these are the different reactions to the judge's ruling on the phosphate reduction scheme. A few years ago, in its opinion on the environment and infrastructure, the Council predicted that the scale increase in dairy farming would continue and that the challenge for this type of farm would then lie in the field of ecology and integration into the landscape. These companies will continue to rely on technical and scientific solutions to complex business operations. This puts permanent pressure on sustainable production techniques and raises the question of whether, in order to achieve the desired balance, it can be achieved differently and perhaps less. The laws now before us aim at reduction and ground-based growth. There is a need for continued reflection on the future stability of our agriculture. On this point, too, we look forward to the thoughts of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u178	In general, Mr Kuiper has taken a critical look at the present system and is concerned about a number of things, including ground-boundness and so on. Is he prepared, for example, to consider, for a certain group of companies, the organic holdings, a bordered legal group, whether it is real that they too are going to suffer from this phosphate right system, while they have not contributed to that overrun of the European Union standard, namely 170 kilograms per hectare? Is Mr Kuiper prepared to consider whether something extra should be done for such a group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u179	I know that's going to happen now by the blighting committee, especially after the judge's ruling. So let that happen there too. Frankly, I have two thoughts on this: one is that solidarity in the sector requires an approach that must be taken into account by everyone who loves animals and thus contributes to phosphate production. Then, of course, your objection will come to the table. The other idea, which I also consider to be respectable and important, is that organic farmers are already making an effort to organise their production process in a different way, that they are now claiming that they have not contributed to the problem and that they would therefore like to be spared. I'd say, "Let's get the messed-up committee to look at that." I'd rather wait for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u180	I'm worried about this messed-up committee. So far, the Secretary of State has been extremely keen on the fact that little can be done about it. If that committee gets very little room, for example to make exceptions for these biological companies, it could be a dead sparrow for these groups. Hence my consideration: should we not call for more attention to be paid to this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u181	I, too, have read the letter from the Secretary of State. In my opinion, the main phrase in this is generous in relation to the blighting committee. He says: let the emergency committee itself come forward with proposals for extending the regime. In the House of Representatives, too, there is a real strong demand for this. So I would now like to put this in the hands of that committee, but I agree with you: if we are talking about these matters, it would certainly not be worse for land-based agriculture, more extensive farming and organic farming. That is where I believe there is the chance of making agriculture more sustainable and that opportunity must be given; I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-7.u182	I note that there are no more Members of Parliament who wish to speak in the first term.
