ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. This weekend I received a book by René Oomen about lifeless children through the ages. The debate on this subject was re-launched a while ago. We've come a long way. Where there used to be a taboo and little understanding, and the lifeless child was anonymous, we see increasing recognition, understanding and support. Therefore the inclusion of lifeless children in the Basic Registration Persons (BRP) fits with this time: no anonymity, no denial and no taboo. That was also the aim of the parents who petitioned "I want in the BRP too!" Started. It was signed by over 82,000 people. On September 19, 2016, it was time. Beautiful news for all those parents who advocated: Minister Plasterk and then Minister Van der Steur made the petition initiators the promise that they would arrange this. They would arrange that, if parents so wish, lifeless born children with retroactive inclusion in the BRP. Stillborn children would also be registered as full-fledged children and parents could see that they have a child, but that it was born dead. That's different from when it looks like the government denies there was a child. That was a clear message from the government, but then it became quiet, very quiet. There was no clarity, not even for the parents. Minister Plasterk indicated that he wanted to take this change into the new BRP, but this new BRP is currently in the dark. There is a delay, more costs and perhaps a delay, and the Minister does not clarify what this means for the registration of lifeless children. You can't deal with such an emotional subject that affects so many people. Roos Schlikker wrote a beautiful, justified column about it in Het Parool. That's why I'm standing here with these questions. Does the Minister still want to keep the promise? Why is the adjustment slowing down? What the hell is going on? We now get a procedural reaction every time. I also asked written questions. Does this have to do with the arrival of the new BRP and the delay and additional costs involved? And is it perhaps an option to explore whether there are alternatives, for example inclusion in the current systems? Is the Minister already working on that and can he tell us about it today? In other words, how will the Minister deal with parents and the Chamber and do justice to the implementation of this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year I talked to the organization of parents of lifeless children. I have indeed made a number of arrangements with the parents, together with Mr Van der Steur. There would be a birth certificate new style. It's been decided by now. I have promised to ensure that parents who are going to seek their family composition will also encounter their lifeless child if they so wish. At that time, I agreed with the parents that we would take this into account in the modernisation of the new basic registration. Indeed, the basic registration project team has now signaled that this modernisation is slowing down. I sent that report to the Chamber. I have informed the Chamber that a BIT test is now being carried out. I'll let you know as soon as possible, so in a few weeks and before the summer, how I handle it. However, I can very well imagine Mrs Bergkamp's question as to whether this means that the commitment could also be delayed. I also believe that this should not happen. It's a deal we made. The mothers agreed to link this to the modernisation of the Basic Registration Persons, but of course they could not know that there would be any delay. I will therefore include in the letter I will send on the whole issue of Basic Registration Persons a solution to ensure that, in any case, the commitment does not delay what we have agreed with parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	So if I listen carefully to the Minister, he says: I will keep my promise and I do not want there to be a delay. But there's got to be something wrong with me. In the report sent by the Steering Group Operation BRP on 15 March, I read this passage: "The development of a facility for the registration of lifeless born children takes place after completion of the transition period. This means that this provision is outside the scope of the integrated planning." In other words, it's off schedule, we don't know when. So if I listen to the Minister carefully and I read this report, this doesn't give me any certainty. So again the question to the Minister: is this now part of the new BRP? If not, and if it takes a very long time, is the Minister prepared to look at alternatives, for example inclusion in the current systems? Is the Minister prepared to include this issue in the comprehensive planning so that it does not fall outside its scope, as stated in this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	To be precise, I didn't send this report to the Chamber at first. It's a draft review report. I said I wanted to take another look at it and have it looked through the BIT and that in a few weeks I would come up with the complete story. This is, among other things, a passage in the text that I am not happy with either. Anyway, the Chamber asked for it and that's why I sent her the report. Once again, I keep my promise, and if there were any delay in modernising the BRP, that should not mean that my commitment to parents will be delayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Can you also mention a deadline for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	I come in June with a reaction at all to the state of affairs around the BRP. I admit that as part of that, I will set out separately how I will honour the commitment to parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	To be honest, I think that's still too vague. How? It's about me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	When I listen to the Minister, he keeps his promise. This is part of the integrated planning of the new BRP; it is not something that bumps behind it. No, it's part of the integral planning. Therefore, once again the question to the Minister: if the trajectory of the new BRP now takes so much time, he is prepared to look at the possibility of inclusion in the current systems so that at least there is a temporary solution for these parents. I have not yet received an answer to that question. I hope that the parents who drafted this petition, including 82,000 signatures, can at least be reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think I just made that commitment. There is no doubt that I will ensure that there is no delay. I'll confirm that here. I also have to discuss the form with the municipalities because it is about the basic municipal administration. In the coming weeks, I will make a decision and the Chamber will therefore hear how I will do it in June, but I have promised Mrs Bergkamp that I will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister addresses the question of how, but again I do not get an answer to the question whether it is about the new BRP or whether he might also look at temporary alternatives. I think this is very important. I really ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	Can you give a concrete answer to that? I think it's confusing when a ruler says, "I'll take it with me..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Then it has to be really clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	I will respond to the situation that arose in the BRP within a few weeks anyway. Whatever that reaction is, it should not have any negative consequences for the commitment to include it. By this I implicitly say that if too much delay were to occur, we would have to deal with it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is good that the Minister explains this more clearly. On such an emotionally sensitive subject where these parents were also concerned about the recognition of these lifeless born children by a birth certificate and registration, it would be extremely painful if we were to end up in a kind of bureaucratic process where there is no clarity when the commitment is fulfilled. The Minister has said a lot of good things in response to Mrs Bergkamp's questions, but I still have a very simple question: when is it actually settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	That is a very simple and concrete question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yeah, I can commit as much as I can actually do. What has already been decided is that this needs to be changed in any case. That would also be the case if we linked this to the modernisation of the BRP. Even if I cut off all the curves that I cut off, I can still put forward a proposal to the Chamber in a few weeks' time to initiate this legislative amendment. Unfortunately, the timing of this is not entirely up to me. I can only promise that I will do this as soon as possible. I acknowledge with Mr Van der Staaij the great value it has for parents. I must also say that Mr Van der Steur of V and J has therefore made a commitment about the other wish, namely not an act of lifeless child born, but a birth certificate in another form. It's been executed by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	Children are born every day and children are registered every day. Then it should be practically perfectly possible to register non-living born children as well. I find it very remarkable that this is linked to a very large new ICT system of the government. And we all know what happens to government ICT systems. They're out of line, they cost way too much money, and eventually they don't. I'm afraid this will happen with these new Basic Registration Persons as well. So I ask the Minister why it should be linked together. Why should the simple registration of the stillborn child be linked to a complicated ICT system that may never come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	In itself, it is a very logical idea to include the registration of children in the Basic Registration Persons, if one so wishes, in the modernisation of that basic registration, but this should not lead to delays in this respect. It must be laid down by law, because there are also parents who do not appreciate the appearance of their lifeless child when they look up the family composition in the Basic Registration Persons. There may also be parents who disagree on this issue. So there is a need for legislation, and you will participate fully in it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Van Raak is no longer allowed to ask a supplementary question, but he asked a question that comes back every time: can there not be some sort of interim solution for those situations where it is very sensitive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yes, but I gave Mrs Bergkamp a comprehensive answer to that. If it's necessary to do it that way, we'll do it that way. I'll send a letter to the Chamber in a few weeks, describing it.
