ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin with Mr Verhoeven's question on behalf of D66. Where is Mr Verhoeven? I don't see anyone from D66. No, Mr Bosma, you cannot ask the Minister his questions on behalf of Mr Verhoeven. Normally, I would move on to the next question, but I see the Foreign Minister sitting in box K. Here comes Mr Verhoeven; you can go straight to the pulpit. Mr Verhoeven asked the Foreign Minister about the Catalan referendum. I call Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, excuse me for coming in late. Last Sunday the Catalans voted by referendum on their independence. You can question the way in which this referendum came about, with a nocturnal vote in the Catalan Parliament, in which part of the parliamentarians were not present. You can also question the legitimacy of the referendum; the Supreme Court has declared the referendum contrary to the Spanish Constitution. And you can question the validity of the result; for example, there was no no campaign and less than half of the Catalans went to the ballot box. There are differences of opinion on all these points and there is a lot of discussion, but that is not the point, because one thing is beyond doubt, as far as I am concerned: it is clear to everyone that the aggressive reaction of the Spanish authorities was out of proportion. This kind of police violence against citizens is unacceptable and we cannot tolerate it from any country, nor from any leader, within and outside the European Union. My first question to the Minister is therefore: why did the Minister not condemn this violence in the strongest terms, as, for example, the Belgian Prime Minister did? Is the Foreign Minister still prepared to do so? Another question I have, in line with this, is why the European Commission was so flat and flat. We're a community of values. This is constantly being put forward, especially by those who have now reacted with such caution and restraint. I'd like a response from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Spain has been a democracy for 40 years. That's what they fought for in Spain. That is precisely why the images we saw on Sunday are not only violent, but also disturbing and intimidating. I would like to say that rubber bullets and voting booths do not go together. These are not images that we want to see in the European Union, and I very much agree with that. The referendum was declared by the Constitutional Court to be contrary to the Constitution. The Spanish Government was entitled to take action against it. Of course, violence must only be used proportionally. Hence the reaction I have just given. Final conclusions on proportionality are now premature. They do not yet draw the United Nations. The UN Human Rights Commissioner Said Al-Hussein Council called yesterday for a thorough, independent and impartial investigation by the Spanish authorities, and that seems to me to be the right course of action. I agree with that. Violence is never the answer. In Spain there is a full rule of law. In this context, it is necessary to examine what happened on Sunday and to find a solution to the situation that arose after the referendum. There are now noises that the European Union should intercede. The Catalan Prime Minister is calling for this. That's understandable. From his point of view, I see the benefit of an EU mediation role. However, I believe that this can only be taken into consideration if both sides indicate that they need it. That is not the case now. I can't speculate about when that is the case. I told you, Spain is a solid democracy. The rule of law is there to be defended. It is now up to the Spanish and Catalan Governments to find a solution. I also contacted the Spanish Foreign Minister this morning. We also commented yesterday on the terrible situation, on the images we all saw on Sunday. No one has any interest in the matter escalating further now. You can also see that the Prime Minister has entered into consultation with the opposition and that at least it is being discussed in Barcelona not to bring about a definitive or a dramatic break. I see this as an opportunity for both sides to consult each other. In their reactions, European governments all stress dialogue. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thanks to the Minister. He uses the words "heavy" and "heavy." At least those are clear words. He also says that it is premature to judge the proportionality of violence. However, the violence of the Spanish government has called for a counter-reaction in Catalonia. That was also to be expected, because a general strike was announced this morning. Hotels just put cops who stayed there out on the street. That's all still peaceful. Of course, I fully agree with the Minister that violence is never a solution, but this conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish Government has the potential to escalate to a truly serious violent conflict. As far as I'm concerned, we really should avoid that, and I think, as far as everyone here is concerned, we really should. It's gonna take outside help. Well, that's pretty obvious by now. That is why my question to the Minister is that he answered him just now, but that was a little too early as far as I am concerned if he is going to make an active commitment to de-escalation. Is he prepared, for example, to demand next week at the Foreign Affairs Council, where all the foreign ministers meet, that the EU should play an intermediary role, or at least ask urgently? Can the Prime Minister do the same at the European Summit next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Firstly, on the issue of escalation and de-escalation. Of course, I very much agree. You can also see the enormous support there is today for that strike in Catalonia. I think that people are extremely shocked by the violence and have experienced it as intimidating. So I also think it has been unwise. I have just made clear statements about it. The second point concerns the issue of de-escalation. We have to be sensible about that. Of course, the Foreign Affairs Council also includes the Spanish Minister. This is generally the case in the European Union. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do anything. They're digging in on both sides now. There is, however, a rule of law and a right of the Spanish State to point out that the referendum is contrary to the Constitution. In this context, very small moves are now being made on both sides. My experience with conflict mediation is that you can interfere too early from the outside. You've got to give the parties some space now, too. We are now holding the debate in the Netherlands for the first time. That is not yet the case in Spain. There is now a discussion with the parties supporting the government. That's the PSOE and the Ciudadanos. One is looking at what is now the wisest way to proceed with this. Spain will somehow have to come to terms with itself here. It is also a rule of law. It is a country that has fought democracy for 40 years. It is not a country such as Poland and Hungary, where the Commission should look at a systematic violation of the rule of law. Something did happen. You should not look passively at that, but you must realize that outside interference is not directly appreciated by all parties either. You always have to have both sides at the table for that. There are no taboos, as far as I am concerned, either for the Netherlands or the European Union. I also pointed out to the Spanish Foreign Minister this morning how important it is to get out of this dialogue. I believe that this should also be possible within the framework of the Spanish rule of law. But it's definitely an exciting situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr Verhoeven, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Unfortunately, we have seen that, as a result of a number of incidents, solid-looking states of the rule of law can suddenly be put under pressure and things can move. I am pleased that the Minister has expressed very clear words in the sense of condemning violence. That's very good. I think the European Commission has been very careful. I also hope that the European Commission can be clearer about the condemnation of this violence. With regard to Poland and Hungary, I can see that the European Commission is very close to it. That could be called a different situation because it is a systematic violation of the rule of law and this is an incident. But if this incident goes far beyond an incident, I think we should look at possible mediation by the European Union and not wait too long for Madrid's judgment. Then both sides must show willingness to allow mediation. The European Union could certainly send a message about this. I expect that from a European Union that calls itself a community of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	Very briefly. I said what I said about violence. I think that is in line with what the other Foreign Ministers and Heads of Government in Europe have said. Again, the referendum was declared by the Constitutional Court to be contrary to the Constitution. In that sense, you can also act against it. The whole question of proportionality is one of research, but rubber bullets and voting booths, of which we have seen the images, do not go together in Europe. I very much agree with that. Again, in mediation, you need both sides. I see that the Spanish rule of law is working on this right now. We must hope that we can increase these margins, even by putting pressure on the Netherlands and Europe, by saying that the only solution to this is a non-violent one. There are many possibilities within the Spanish Constitution to talk about autonomy, but there is also the importance of the rest of Spain and of large minorities in Catalonia. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The truth isn't on one side here. It's mostly about de-escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	Last Sunday was a black day for democracy. We saw the police pull young and old people away from the polling booths. We saw the police shoot rubber bullets at her own citizens. Then I find it rather disappointing that the Prime Minister also said today but also in recent days that Spain is in its right and that an investigation should be carried out into the proportionality or proportionality of this violence. I miss, unlike Mr Verhoeven of D66, a clear condemnation of this violence. We do not hesitate to condemn the violation of democratic principles in Myanmar or Washington. Is this minister simply too cowardly to do so, or is he unwilling to express a clear condemnation of this disproportionate violence towards the citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	We don't measure with double standards at all. I am always concerned about the protection of the rule of law. This is also the case in Spain. There too there is a rule of law. There is also a view of the Constitutional Court. It is therefore right to say that this referendum is in its own right to declare it illegal. This also means that action may be taken against it. Whether that's wise is quite different. I have clearly spoken about this in the sense that rubber bullets and voting booths do not go together. It's okay to convict. The UN Human Rights Commissioner has not yet done so. He is asking for an investigation by Spain itself. Spain is a rule of law. The Spanish and Catalan Governments have instruments to address this. That seems to me to be the right way forward. We must also take Spain seriously as a country. It is a democratic country and a partner of the Netherlands in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	I had the impression yesterday that the reactions from the capitals and from Brussels on what happened on Sunday in Catalonia are somewhat uncomfortable: on the one hand we are used to respecting the sovereignty and autonomy of countries and certainly of allies, but on the other hand we reject what is happening. Does the Minister see this inconvenience? And does he feel completely free next week, when he sits at the table with his Spanish colleague, not to turn his heart into a murder pit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, I do see some of the discomfort. I think that's what's common. Of course, everyone's freaked out about what happened there on Sunday, so am I. I think everyone who's been watching. Again, rubber bullets and voting booths don't go together. Anyone who looks at the problem can see how complicated it is. It's a referendum that's illegal. It is a referendum in which many people have not chosen. It is a referendum in which the rest of Spain has not been heard. At the same time, it is also quite clear that violence does not provide a solution. That is an inconvenience, and it is also an inconvenience about something else, which we are also discussing here: when, as the rest of the European Union, are you going to get involved in such a problem? We have problems here all the time. Should Mr Juncker say this and that of the Netherlands when this or that happens, or about the referendum here? We rightly have our questions on that. Here we are talking about a member of the European Union who is in his own right. There's indeed some inconvenience, I'll give you that. But the answer to your question is: I feel completely free to do so; we want the rule of law and the constitution of Spain to be protected. Because there are problems there now, we can only encourage the Spanish political parties, your party mates in Spain and others to see if a sensible compromise can be reached. That, I think, is essential now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	The Minister, like colleagues, spoke of mediation. May I use the word "dialogue" instead of "contribute"? Is it not possible that the EU will primarily attempt to bring the two parties that are opposed to each other, with the two leaders first, to a dialogue, a discussion? This does not mean at all that the EU believes that there should be mediation. Is that a solution? A second question I have is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	No, Mr Van Rooijen, you can only ask one question in 30 seconds. You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	The answer is that the whole of the European Union is saying to Spain, to the Spanish Government: solve this through dialogue, do your best to achieve it. That is quite strong pressure on a Member State of the European Union. Mediation is requested by one side and not by the other. So mediation can only be successful if both would want it. I don't want to speculate on that right now. It is important that, because of this message that brings the rest of the European Union and the strength of Spanish democracy, we have to wait for a moment today. I can't say it every day. Of course, we remain very alert to this, because it is an exciting situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Minister calls the violence, the disproportionate violence against civilians by the police, with 800 victims: "heavy," "intimitable," "not appropriate on European soil." In the following sentence, he says that Spain is in its right. It's not the same thing. However understandable it is that the Spanish government did not want this referendum and that it was illegal, it does not justify violence against its own citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	And that also has to do with the values we have agreed on. That is why I ask this Minister not only to speak of violent and intimidating, but also simply to condemn it. Because with this we can show that we are good friends with Spain, but at the same time we can say to a good friend: here you go too far, here you violate civil rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	I thought I had been very clear in the qualification of what happened there last Sunday. I do point out, however horrible and intimidating I thought it was, I used words about rubber bullets and voting booths, which I did not say was in the right to use violence. I said: it is a right because it is an illegal referendum. That is the crux of the matter. With regard to the proportionality of violence and its condemnation, I would like to point out that I agree with the United Nations, which at the moment had to rely only on images. It is, of course, a much broader situation. We are doing so in all countries, whether Myanmar, Yemen or the rule of law like Spain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	The Minister is clear. The referendum is illegal. Spain doesn't want a separation. But a really smart action isn't Spain: let 800 people end up in the hospital if you want to avoid a separation. That is why the Minister, like the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, is calling for an independent investigation. The UN Human Rights Commissioner also calls for access for experts. How will the EU ask for this? Suppose Spain is not going to do this research, is the EU asking for an investigation to be carried out into exactly what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	I believe that the UN Human Rights Commissioner has rightly called for a thorough, independent and impartial investigation initiated by the Spanish authorities. That's what he said. That is what I now expect and what I now consider important from Spain. You probably know the government party well, but also a lot of other parties in Spain, I think. I am sure that they will also use legal remedies within Spain and also at European level if they consider that necessary. So I do not have the tendency to say: we must now demand that this happens and so on. I agree with what the UN has proposed. I have confidence in the Spanish rule of law, the political parties and the various actors there. It is a rich democracy and it will defend its rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you.
