ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, as well as the people in the gallery and the Members of Parliament. I shall begin with Mr Van Bommel as the first speaker on behalf of the SP. His speaking time is five minutes. It's okay. It's a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u2	In the limitation the master shows himself, says the proverb. Madam President. For the time being, for the last time, we in the House of Representatives are discussing the ratification of the European Union's association agreement with Ukraine. Today, all parties will have to come to terms and make a final assessment of whether or not they can agree to the way in which the cabinet has dealt with the outcome of the referendum that was held on this subject. For the SP it is crystal clear: we reject the legal statement, a paper tiger. It does not do justice to the outcome of the referendum. Just a year ago, 61% of the voters who have emerged voted against the Ukraine agreement. Instead of immediately sending a repeal law to the Chamber, the cabinet chose to run cow business in Brussels, about some of the so-called concerns that would live with the electorate. That may sound nice, but it's not pure at all. After all, the question was about establishing a deep political and economic association between the EU and Ukraine. Voters have not completed a survey on their possible concerns. "Are you for or against the association agreement with Ukraine?', That is what the referendum question came down to. The fundamental "no" that followed this question, reducing to a few concerns that could be brushed away with a devious trick, is not a sign of reliability, the Prime Minister's trademark. In fact, it undermines the voter's confidence, both in national and European politics. Stop ratifying or put the "no" aside immediately and continue, at least there would have been clear reactions. Now Chamber and electorate are stuck with a legal statement, which will not be signed by Ukraine. For, the government writes, it is about'subjects on which decision-making lies on the side of the European Union and its Member States'. I can't stop wondering about that. One of the concerns mentioned in the legal statement is the importance attached to the fight against corruption. Let corruption have been one of the most important reasons for people to vote against this treaty. Can the Prime Minister respond once again to the fact that Ukraine is in no way formally bound to prioritize the fight against corruption, other than what was already laid down in the Treaty? How credible is it that Ukraine feels ownership of the fight against corruption demanded by the Netherlands if it does not have to sign this declaration of intent? The Council of State was right to point out that "the legal binding nature of the decision does not strictly extend to Ukraine'. In other words, nothing changes for Ukraine. The voter who was worried about corruption has checked. The other points also apply, as I mentioned in previous debates, that the statement does not change the content of the Treaty. Ukraine remains able to apply for EU membership. That was never formally regulated in the association agreement. The legal statement does not put Ukraine in the way. These are the rules of the European game. My party was concerned that, with such an ambitious association agreement, Ukraine is certainly seeking to connect with the European Union in a variety of ways through European laws and regulations. That is an irreversible process. When it comes to the other concerns, there is no collective security guarantee, no labour migration and no additional financial support................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Meanwhile, Ukraine is simply eligible for financial support through existing EU mechanisms. Under the agreement, Ukraine's enhanced participation in EU civilian and military operations in crisis management, including within the Common Security and Defence Policy, will be mobilised. Does the Prime Minister recognise that this legal statement, signed unilaterally by the EU Member States, does not change the content of the Convention and that the Council of State feels the same about its legal scope? There is still uncertainty as to the impact of the Brexit on the agreement. The government writes that this has not yet been discussed, but it may be possible for the Prime Minister to outline possible scenarios regarding the impact on the Ukraine agreement if a Member State leaves the Union and thus the treaty network. I'd like a response. I would have mentioned the outcome of the months of consultation between the Netherlands and the other Member States as disappointing if I had not had low expectations in advance. As far as SP is concerned, the only pure option would have been to send a withdrawal law directly to the Chamber. Now people are confirmed in their sense that everything can be arranged in Brussels, with a smile and backroom deals. The train is just pounding on, just like after the Constitutional referendum. In short, the cabinet has missed an important opportunity to show that Dutch citizens do have a say in the direction of Europe. That is what the Prime Minister will feel during the elections on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u3	Mr. Chairman. This evening we may be discussing the greatest democratic farce of this cabinet and that of Prime Minister Rutte in particular. The Dutch people were clear at the referendum, the rules of the game were clear, one of the government groups was clear: we accept the result with a valid outcome. First the Labour Party backed off, the party put its appointment with the voter in the garbage. And then parties like D66 and GroenLinks backed off. Parties who were in favour of referendums. They are now shocked by the opinion of the people. Suddenly, they're removing referendums from their election program. The betrayal of elitist left is rarely as displayed as in the past few months on this file. Suddenly we don't need the control of the citizen anymore: we don't like your opinion, we shut ourselves off from you. An embarrassing display at GroenLinks, D66 and Party of Labour. Equally embarrassing is the intervention of the cabinet. Where did we end up when a cabinet interprets the legal outcome according to its own arbitrariness? No, worse, where are we when the losers decide what the winners voted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u4	Here's what I'm gonna do for you. Mr Monasch may say anything, but he cannot maintain that D66 has withdrawn referendums from her electoral programme. That is not the case. It's wrong what he's suggesting. This applies only to GroenLinks and the Labour Party and not to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u5	You no longer want to apply referenda to treaties, for example, Mr Verhoeven. So you are so shocked on this subject that you no longer want them to be the subject of a referendum. So just be honest with the voter. You failed them at this point too. What kind of democracy is this if you change the rules of the game here afterwards to be right? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's response to this. But that's not the end of it. The treaty with Ukraine is also being changed unilaterally and without obligation. So you sign a treaty with another, and then you adapt it without the agreement of the other treaty partner, in this case Ukraine. This is also recognised in black and white by the cabinet in answering one of the questions asked to him. My question to the cabinet is: what is this treaty law? Does the Foreign Minister really think that this way you can amend a treaty without asking the other treaty partner for explicit consent? I would like to hear his reaction to this. Is the way in which this treaty has been handled by the cabinet an example of countries such as Ukraine where the law and many other countries in these areas are often used? Is this an example of how you deal with international law? Is this, if you invite officials from these countries here to a class at the Foreign Office, now the way you explain how you deal with treaties with countries? I would like to have the Minister's reaction to this. This also brings us to the question of the sustainability and content of the adjustment itself. The Council of State is also very critical of this. The Council of State states that "it is not sufficiently clear what the status of the decision is." While the cabinet screams that it is an authoritative instrument of international importance, the Council of State then turns the cabinet around. It is unclear what the status of this decision is, according to the Council of State. Hence my question: is there an official written statement by the Ukrainian Government that this decision is clear to it and that it is explicitly in agreement with it? I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. Is the decision in the cabinet's view, after hearing the opinion of the Council of State, still that it is an authoritative instrument of international importance? I would like to hear a response from the Foreign Minister. The Council of State rightly states that, on the basis of the Referendum Act, there are only two flavors after a valid result: to withdraw the Convention or to allow it to enter into force. Adjustments do not appear in the Referendum Act. Can the cabinet make an attempt, where it sees that legal basis in the Referendum Act, to make these adjustments? Or is it purely political opportunism? I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. The Referendum Act is put aside. A treaty partner is put aside. And worst of all, a democratic vote by the majority is put aside. Had submitted a new decision to the Dutch people! Had entered into a real debate! But no, the cabinet and the parties who support it now are no longer willing to do so. Our democracy and the credibility of politics are being thrown out of control by this proposal. It is up to the cabinet and the parties that support this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u6	Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates the entry into force of the Act approving the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. And it will be accepted in the Second and also in the First Chamber. This proposal is not the apotheosis of a heroic political struggle. The Prime Minister wanted us to believe that when he said something big and important had to happen in Brussels. He would do justice to the objections of the counter-voters. Straighten up! The concerns of 2.5 million voters who rejected the association with Ukraine in full and unambiguous terms. He did not do justice to those objections. It wasn't a heroic battle. The Prime Minister has created fog. He has frustrated the process, he has stretched the legal concept "as soon as possible" to a political agony of 321 days. I don't think anyone today shares the feeling of triumph that a great national VVD-friendly newspaper talked about when the Prime Minister came up with his idea of inserting. Today is the end of this journey. There's no other feeling than that of depression, of fatigue and disappointment. The Prime Minister and the VVD have got their way. In the Lower House D66, the Party of Labour and GroenLinks were turned. They first expressed the view that the outcome of the referendum should be respected. In this house, the House of Representatives, the CDA stops the mask of principle, but the case with the CDA senators has long been settled in the First Chamber. That's what I said in the last Ukraine debate. Why did those 2.5 million voters go to the ballot box on April 6th so motivated? Because they are concerned about the undemocratic EU, about the European Parliament that is not a parliament but a voting machine and that is populated by urophils who almost religiously want to go one way: more EU, more federalisation on the way to those one united states of Europe, on the road to a union in which the Netherlands is marginalised into a insignificant province on the outskirts of the continent. That province is the largest net contributor and is forced to make massive payments of money, of prosperity, of its own jobs and even of well-being, without real democratic control. That province should not guard its own borders and should not decide which guests and which guests are not admitted to the house whose front door has been opened. That is what worries the public. This dossier has seriously undermined the credibility of the Prime Minister and of the Government. Worse still, this dossier has seriously undermined confidence in politics. The submission of the draft law on the entry into force of the agreement completely ignores the outcome of a valid consultative referendum. That shouldn't have happened. It is a farce that a legally binding solution is added, and I am talking about the inserting sheet that would do justice to the no-thumb. With this inlay, the cabinet is leading the Dutch people around. This annex has no consequences. Even the Council of State has doubts about its legal status. The treaty is simply signed and implemented. Meanwhile, the President of Ukraine is already taking an advance on the future. That's remarkable. He stated that he was now fully on his way to membership of NATO and membership of the European Union. Here we are. I have a few specific questions for the Prime Minister. I ask him to simply answer "yes" or "no" for once. These questions are legitimate questions of the citizen. These questions are very strong. There are huge hopes for honest answers. Is the Prime Minister ready for the questions? He is somewhere else for a while; I think he is in Brussels. Anyway, I'm gonna ask these questions anyway. The officials are in the back and maybe they'll write along. Does the Prime Minister promise that he will do everything in his power to prevent Ukraine from becoming a member of the European Union in the future? The Prime Minister said: 'If you love Europe, stop dreaming of more Europe'. Does he promise that he will comply with that statement and, wherever it is, will proclaim that the VVD will not fight for a federal European Union? Will the Prime Minister therefore also oppose plans to levy EU taxes? So will he also turn against a much higher EU budget? Will the Prime Minister oppose more opportunities for the European Union to incur its own debts? Will he also oppose the formation of a European army? With the adoption of this law, 2.5 million votes against lost a battle. I have said it here before: we have lost a battle, but the war is far from over. We will eventually win that war, because we are on the right side of history. The EU and its "bread prophets" are on the wrong side, for there is a patriotic resistance against the European Union everywhere. That's the writing on the wall. The PM doesn't see it, or doesn't want to see it. That is extremely unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u7	Mr. Chairman. On 6 April 2016, 61% of Dutch voters voted against the Association Agreement with Ukraine. That's a clear outcome. The people had made their voices clear, but this cabinet turned out to have no regard for it. The approval law was simply filed after months of delay. The Dutch electorate is therefore completely fooled. The additional statement that Prime Minister Rutte came home with is a mockery, a meaningless piece of paper. According to the legal adviser of the European Council, it does not alter the content of the Treaty at all, nor does it constitute a reservation. The Council of State also considers the statement to be far too vague. In the legal sense, it does not mean anything at all. Ukraine does not even sign the declaration itself. There's no intention of keeping to that. We saw that from President Poroshenko's statement earlier this month. He indicated that it would not be long before his country met the criteria to become a member of the European Union. So Ukraine is just kidding us. Does the government see that this country does not feel bound by the passage that the treaty is not a stepping stone for EU membership? I'd like a response. Ukraine must, of course, never be given the status of an EU candidate. The European Court of Auditors stated earlier that despite billions of EU support, the country is still the most corrupt country in Europe. Corruption is not going down, it is going up and down. The Dutch electorate saw it well in the referendum. This huge corruption was the main reason why the voters voted no. Also, the free trade agreement with Ukraine does not generate much or little economic growth for the Netherlands. It's no use to us as the Netherlands. That is why my group will be voting against this approval law. We also ask all other Members of Parliament to respect the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. Trade not in the party interest or the group discipline, but in the interest of the Dutch electorate. VVD roommates who I know have doubts, now have the chance to do the right thing. To the MPs of PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks I say: your parties made the new referendum law possible. Are you going to reject the results of the first referendum that was held on this basis? That would be intriguing and intriguing. The cynicism among the population will only grow further. I'm rounding up. The democratic voice of the Netherlands must ultimately outweigh the interests of Ukraine or the PvdA and the VVD. This approval law must be rejected. My group will request a roll-call vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u8	Mr. Chairman. This is yet another debate on the Ukraine referendum. It is a good thing that we have discussed everything in detail last year, but now it is time to clarify things. The commitment of my group is clear. We have campaigned for this Ukraine referendum. We have said before and after the results that we take the results seriously. We have called on the cabinet to clarify as quickly as possible. However, the cabinet opted for a different procedure, towards a substantive solution. D66 has also always wanted a substantive solution that did justice to the no vote. Anyway, we all know history. The voter was left in uncertainty for too long about what would happen to the outcome of the referendum, almost a year ago. Mr Bertema said it exactly: 320 days. Now there is an approval law, along with a decision by all European leaders, which addresses the concerns of the no-voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u9	Mr Verhoeven now pretends to have just asked for the cabinet to be clear, but he co-signed the motion and voted in favour of it, in which the cabinet was asked to come forward with a repeal law proposal. What happened to that? D66 has made a complete fool of itself by first supporting that motion, voting in favour of it and now agreeing to an approval proposal instead of a withdrawal proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u10	I think I've already answered this question about ten times, but I'd like to do it another eleventh time. That is what we are here for. D66 once made this referendum law itself. That law says that you have to send a withdrawal law when the result gives rise to it. That is what we asked the Cabinet for. The aim was to create room for a substantive solution in this way, because we have always wanted a substantive solution. Then the cabinet said, "We don't do that." The cabinet has started work and nine months later the cabinet, while still no repeal law had been sent, came up with a substantive solution. The cabinet then asked us to take a serious look at this. D66 said: yes, we want to take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u11	D66 said immediately after the result of the referendum, which made it clear that the majority of the population felt that a repeal law should be proposed, that D66 would not only take the outcome seriously, but would also respect it. D66 then agrees with a motion requesting the cabinet to come forward immediately, or as soon as possible, with a withdrawal bill, and also co-signs that motion. I don't understand how D66 can turn like that. Why is D66 rolling? What did the Cabinet promise? Why shouldn't you stick to your ideals when it comes to taking referendums seriously and their outcome? Why do you let your ears hang to the cabinet? What exactly did D66 win with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u12	Mrs Thieme's question is, of course, constantly being asked. Often people start quoting us wrongly and putting words in our mouths that we never said. That is the first trick that is always used by the opponents of this treaty and this solution. That's okay, but D66 said we'd take the results seriously. Then you're going to see how you're going to take the results seriously. I have never seen Mrs Thieme in the rooms where the debates on this treaty took place. I was there, together with Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Van Bommel and all kinds of other people. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry about Mrs. Maij. Each time, the same points emerged. Mrs Thieme was somewhere else, I think, but we were in those rooms and each time the same five points were raised. Mrs Thieme laughs at it, but it is. All the people in those rooms said: we do not want Ukraine to become a member of the European Union. Every time it was said: we do not want billions to go from the European Union to Ukraine through this treaty. A great concern of the people was: we do not want workers from Ukraine to flood our labour market. And it was said that this treaty should not oblige us to cooperate in military matters. I have just counted, and I think I have debated this subject about 40 times. Every time, these were the concerns that there were.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u13	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u14	Just a little more time. I will do it really shorter afterwards, but I want to make it clear once, because I get the question every time. I would like to make it quite clear now, and then it will be done as far as I am concerned. Everyone may then ask again; then I will do it shorter and refer to it. So what do we do? We listen to the people by taking seriously the concerns of the people, who have been constantly expressed in all these rooms. That's what the Cabinet does with this solution. We therefore believe that it does justice to the outcome. With that you listen to the concerns of the Dutch people, and that is our ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u15	The fact that the Party for Animals has won with its campaign against the association agreement is something I understand. But the fact that D66 is trying to get away with a word game in the vein of "we have not said that we will respect the outcome of the referendum, but that we are going to take that result seriously" is precisely why people have so much to gain from traditional political parties. The fact that we are playing in the debate with words is causing such a breach of confidence. "We have said: take seriously rather than respect. We have tabled a motion for a repeal proposal, but yes, we are now going to agree to an approval proposal." D66 confuses the electorate, in particular the electorate. That is a party that puts democracy first, really unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u16	No, that's what the Party for Animals does, and all parties that try to pretend there's only one way to deal with a consultative referendum. We have said: we are listening to the concerns of the Dutch people. The substantive concerns of the Dutch people have come up again and again. The five major concerns of the Dutch population will not come true, although this has been constantly claimed by the people of the neekamp. If anyone has fooled the Dutch people and if someone has lied, I have already said that about all kinds of things that are not going to happen, then it has been the representatives of the neekamp. They've done it all the time. They have all said things that have not taken place and will not take place. That is what I think should be the guiding principle: the content. The fact that other parties then say 'you should have done it differently' is their right and I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u17	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, and then I will sit down. D66 believes that we can fool the electorate, but we should stop doing so now. The voter knows very well what's going on. We should have a little more respect for the information the electorate has on the association agreement. We should, in particular, respect that which the D66 referendum should appeal to for the will of the people, namely that there should be a repeal bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u18	I have a lot of respect for the electorate, like all 150 representatives in this house. I respect the electorate by not telling lies about what could be the result of an association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. The representatives of the camp have all done so on a number of occasions. We are now in the process of taking away the lies of the camp through this solution. Next, we will ensure that the Dutch people know that Ukraine is not becoming a member, that Ukrainian workers cannot just come to the Netherlands, that there are no billions from the European Union to Ukraine and so on. That's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u19	Mr Verhoeven speaks very passionately about all these lies. But the biggest lie is, of course, his statement in this context during the debate on the outcome of the referendum on 13 April 2016. He said: 'The treaty cannot go ahead' and 'the law of withdrawal must be filed and the cabinet must be consulted as soon as possible' and so on. "The repeal law must be filed." It never happened again, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u21	That is what the lie you are defending is about, with a lot of talk about doing justice to the result of the referendum with the insert without any legal consequences and so on. You're just twisted! Just say that honestly to all those D66 pickers. They don't mind, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u22	Indeed, my group would have preferred a repeal law to have been tabled...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u23	Well, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u24	No, Mr. Beertema, there's a comma next. So I have always been very clear that we would have preferred a repeal law. The procedure through such a withdrawal law would have been the purest procedure. The cabinet didn't choose that. The cabinet has opted for a different procedure, which ultimately leads to a substantive solution that does justice to the concerns of the people who voted against the Treaty. My group has thought about this. We believe that these concerns are taken very seriously, because the five things that have been constantly claimed are not going to happen. That is why we can at least agree to the use of the cabinet. We still have one or two questions about that. Then we will clarify this. I've been saying this all along. Mr Beertema would very much like to take the word 'turn' in his mouth. That's what Mrs Thieme wants. They're all allowed to do that. We have always said: create a substantive solution and do so in accordance with the procedure of the Referendum Act. The cabinet has chosen to do it differently, but in the end it has led to a substantive solution. It would be strange if my group would suddenly stop supporting it, while the solution would respond to the concerns of the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u25	If Mr Verhoeven of D66 now hears Mr Poroshenko, who wants to advance full-blown towards membership of NATO and the EU, isn't Mr Verhoeven sweating in his bed at night? Does he not think: what should happen, because this is something we must stop? How is Mr Verhoeven going to stop this, together with our Prime Minister, who has also made statements about it on the basis of the deposit sheet? Is Mr Verhoeven going to fight hard for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u26	I do not have to fight for that at all, because of everything Mr Poroshenko says, the European Union can do nothing. I know that Mr Poroshenko likes to pretend that Ukraine can become a member of the European Union, but that is not going to happen. I do not think there is at present a Member State of the European Union that wants Ukraine to become a member of the European Union. So it's just not gonna happen. We can say a hundred times that someone has said that who wants Ukraine to become a member of the European Union, but it is not going to happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u27	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u28	Yeah, let's do that, Mr. Chairman. As I said, there is now a law on approval, along with a decision by all European leaders addressing the concerns of the no-voters. In all the debates I have had on this subject, with Mr Van Bommel, Mr Ten Broeke, Mrs Maij, and others, these concerns also emerged. These concerns were largely caused by the campaign of the no-comb. Because that neekamp has created many myths and fables to frighten people of this agreement. Ukraine would become a member of the EU. Ukraine would get billions. Ukrainian workers would take our jobs. We should engage in military cooperation with Ukraine, and so on. Now these concerns are addressed and eliminated. But after this has been addressed and deactivated, and even though there was no such thing as a result of the association agreement, the no-comb says that all this is nothing. That is a policy of destruction, and it doesn't make anyone any better. This is also a reproach to the cabinet, which, of course, has not campaigned enough to destroy the myths and fables that have been spread over and over again. The cabinet itself stresses that it has worked extremely hard to achieve this result. It is a decision by all European leaders that responds to the concerns of the no-voters. That has undoubtedly had many feet in the earth. I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Rutte and Mr Koenders, the Foreign Minister, on the work they have done after their failed campaign. So I'm just saying that this happened after their failed campaign, and they know it. Of course, they could have saved that job by just campaigning, but okay. I ask the Prime Minister once more what lessons he has learned from this course of events over the past year. This process does not deserve a beauty prize: I agree with everyone. I would like to hear a response to this question. However, regardless of what I think of the process, there is today a law on approval, including a decision by Heads of Government meeting within the European Council. This Decision concerns the implementation and application of the Association Agreement. It's been taken at the highest possible level. It responds to the main concerns of the electorate in the referendum. No membership, Mr. Beertema. No security guarantees, Mr. Van Bommel. No extra money, Mrs Thieme. No free movement, Mr Monasch. And a full commitment to the fight against corruption, Mr Voordewind. Can the Prime Minister confirm that further interpretations of the association agreement are no longer possible as a result of this decision? Can he confirm that? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The developments of recent months have only shown how important it is to operate as a united and decisive Europe. Putin got company from Trump. It is precisely now that a strong Europe is crucial, a strong Europe that wants to move forward and reaches out to those who want to. More than three years ago, hundreds of thousands of ordinary Ukrainians went out on the streets. They protested against lawlessness and corruption. For them, Europe was a symbol of justice, transparency and hope. Much has been achieved three years later, but much remains to be done if a new generation is to be able to reform the country. A Europe that looks over Ukraine's shoulder and gives support or exerts pressure where necessary is indispensable. I thought it was Mr Van Klaveren who just asked me if I would vote in the national interest. Mr Van Klaveren is also gone for a while, but I can reassure him: I will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u29	Mr. Chairman. Here again, for the umpteenth time, we are talking about the association agreement with Ukraine, about the referendum that we have had in the Netherlands and about all the discussion that has arisen about the content of the association agreement. It was clear from the beginning: the Labour Party was and is in favour of an association agreement with Ukraine. At a time when instability and insecurity around us, around Europe, we consider it important to take a vulnerable neighbour by hand and to support it. This is not only in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, but also in the interests of us. Just as international tensions are increasing, we have a great interest in stability, in greater stability at the eastern border and in a country on the eastern border of the European Union that can become more prosperous. It is right now that it is important for Europe, the Netherlands and Ukraine to cooperate internationally, to work together to find solutions to cross-border problems and to draw a strong line against the great neighbour, towards Putin. At the same time, it was clear that the referendum could not be without consequences. That is why we have given the cabinet the opportunity to give a place to the most important objections of the no-voters. These objections have already been raised a few times today. A number of points were at the forefront. Let me repeat them briefly. The treaty is not a custom for membership. The Treaty does not mean that Ukrainian workers can simply enter the European Union to work here. The Convention does not impose any obligation for military cooperation and assistance. Promoting the rule of law is a central element in ensuring that corruption is combated in Ukraine. We need to find a legally binding solution to these concerns. The Advisory Section of the Council of the State gave a favourable opinion. The Government has amended the explanatory memorandum on a number of points to this end. We read that in the letter from the Foreign Minister. With the legally binding declaration that is now in place, it is clear and stands out in black and white that the objections clearly expressed by the camp have been met. I am pleased that a legal solution has been found. Booking a result is sometimes more difficult than going along the sidelines and yelling that things have to be different. It was a long process and the solution seemed far away, but there is now a statement that not only concerns the Netherlands but binds all EU partners. I would like to thank the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but above all the people who are sitting across the bench for their efforts to achieve what is now at stake. For the PvdA, the way is clear to support that approval law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u30	Mr. Chairman. Let us assume that this is the last time we are talking about the conclusion of the association agreement. As far as we are concerned, however, it does not have to be the last time we talk about what is happening with the association agreement. But I shall come back to that in the course of my speech. It is a logical follow-up step to bring into force the law on entry into force. It is a logical continuation after a very long history that started on 27 June 2014, when the agreement was concluded. GroenLinks was a warm supporter of the association agreement with Ukraine from the outset. At international level, the arguments for such an association agreement have only become stronger: instability has increased, Putin's intimidating behaviour has increased further and uncertainty around Europe has increased since the change of watch in the United States. All this is a reason why at least this association agreement is not too easy to place in the dirt. Ukraine must not implode, should not perish from this intimidation and violence. It is extremely important, first and foremost for Ukraine itself but also for Europe, that that country can develop positively with EU support. We need to seize that opportunity. That is a great importance: it is a Dutch interest and an international interest. For us, this is ultimately the deciding factor, despite the consultative referendum held on 6 April, in which a majority of the voters voted against. That certainly led to a dilemma in my group. That's what I've been talking about before. The final consideration of GroenLinks is that we go for the substantive side, the substantive benefits and argumentation in favour of this association agreement. The annex, the supplementary declaration, has played a role in some sense, although we are aware that this additional explanation for many voters from the camp will not be enough to convince them. However, in an objective sense, it addresses the main arguments raised in the debate on the referendum. In this additional statement, substantive arguments have been properly refuted. Although it is not enough to remove everyone's concerns, it has value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u31	GroenLinks has also promised the electorate to respect the outcome of the referendum, but has changed its content, partly thanks to the members of GroenLinks. I have a question about the value of the referendum as an instrument. Does Mr Grashoff agree with me that the course of events around the Ukraine referendum and the way in which politics, including the Green Left, has dealt with this, in the Congress, undermines the credibility of referendums and will also reduce the participation rate in any subsequent referendums? GroenLinks was of the opinion with the Animal Party that referenda should be used much more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u32	The instrument of referendum is under discussion, including within my party. I'll admit it right away. If you're gonna hold a referendum, it's gonna have to be good in one go. We may have had a miraculous turnout threshold, suggesting that an advisory referendum is a binding referendum. Maybe we shouldn't have organized that way. There is therefore much to be learned. It also teaches us how to prepare such a referendum and how to ensure that people are well informed. Those are all learning points. I believe that the last word has not yet been said, not within my party, but certainly not in national politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u33	Do I understand that GroenLinks is actually sorry that she promised the electorate that it would respect the outcome of the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u34	I would like to stress that our voters, the Green Left voters, have stood up to a great extent in this referendum and voted very convincingly in favour of the association agreement. The question may be asked in this regard which voters you stand for: for your own voters or for the voters in general. In this case, that was a strange dilemma. The turnout was no more than 30% and there was a majority of about 60%, while there was massive support from our own electorate and our members for this association agreement. Eventually, it was also very important that our members, with a few thousand at a conference, made it very convincing that this substance should ultimately be the deciding factor. That too is an aspect of democracy which cannot be avoided and which we do not want to avoid either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u35	Mrs Thieme, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u36	Then I have to conclude that GroenLinks' party democracy prevails over the democracy of a referendum. This clearly indicates that GroenLinks may be very democratic within the party, but in fact does not respect the democracy that we have created by means of the Referendum Act, whereby the majority of the population can advise the cabinet and parliament by indicating how it thinks about certain matters. I am glad that that is clear: GroenLinks therefore opts for party democracy and not for the democracy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u37	I am also glad that Mrs Thieme is clear, but I wonder if it is really clear. With regard to the democratic principle, an advisory referendum is and remains an advisory referendum. In this sense, therefore, there is not a word of Spanish in relation to Parliament's responsibility and Parliament simply has the right to vote on it. I should also like to hope that the party democracy in the Animal Party is such that Mrs Thieme, if she receives a clear message from her members, will abide by it, otherwise I would seriously doubt the Animal Party. I have already said that, in this dilemma, my group has finally chosen very clearly in favour of the content and in favour of the importance it serves. We attach great importance to the fact that things are now moving in the right direction. We attach great importance to the fact that the association agreement with Ukraine will actually contribute to the development of a democratic rule of law and to the maintenance and promotion and continuation of the fight against corruption, which is extremely important. That will be at the end of the day on which we will be dealt with both Ukraine and the European Union: is this really going to contribute to a favourable development, both in Ukraine and for the benefit of the European Union? That's what it should be about right now. I ask the Cabinet if it sees a possibility for a form of reporting and reporting to this Parliament. I understand that this is primarily an EU matter, but this is also a multilateral agreement. I therefore ask this government whether it is prepared to keep us informed on an annual basis of the progress and implementation of the association agreement and of all the things that were so significant in that whole discussion. We are at the forefront of the fight against corruption and the development of the democratic rule of law in Ukraine. That must be a success. Can we work together to make this a real success?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u38	Mr. Chairman. The precise question that voters had to answer on 6 April 2016 was: are you for or against the law approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine? The Dutch people answered this question in a large majority with "against." The proponents of the Free Trade Agreement (FTA), PvdA, CDA, GroenLinks and D66 (D66) promised to respect the outcome. In the motion of 13 April, one week after the no vote, not only the Animal Party and the SP Party, but also D66, GroenLinks, the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP requested the government to come forward as soon as possible with a repeal law on the approval of the Free Trade Agreement. However, the support for this motion proved to be only for the stage, because now they are letting the cabinet get away with the decision not to file a repeal law. A huge European lobby was set up and the Prime Minister went looking for what he called "goat paths" and "mouse holes" to save the treaty. Instead of talking today about a withdrawal bill, which the voters have asked for and which a majority in this house promised, we are talking about the opposite: an approval law, against the explicit wishes of the people. Anyone who complains that populism is growing in support and that confidence in Europe is shrinking will have to ask, in a spirit of conscience, whether the cause of this is not simply the betrayal of the middle parties. We see ourselves playing a political game, with varying majorities in the Lower House and Upper Chamber. It is political match fixing with individual members of the First Chamber who cast his shadows forward. But the result is the only thing that matters to the cabinet: do not bother the European partners and help the European expansion drive towards the east. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance no longer feels bound by previous promises about the Ukraine referendum, because its congress decided otherwise, and individual CDA senators have already pointed out that European interests are more important. The voters did not want this free trade agreement, but the Prime Minister says that they will respond to their concerns through a legally binding declaration to the Treaty. In doing so, he believes he can take the liberty of shopping out of the various possible reasons behind the no, and then sell it as if it does justice to the outcome of the referendum. It is nothing more than a political houdini act to confuse the electorate. That won't work, by the way. I can do that prophecy without a crystal ball. This treaty is not about geopolitics but about trade, as Commissioner Frans Timmermans clearly stated. And the Prime Minister said last January in Buitenhof: "It's just a free trade agreement. That's in our best interest." So there would be money to be made. However, it is only crumbs. We are talking about an economy of Ukraine, which is smaller than that of the province of North Holland. But it is trade with the most corrupt country in the European continent, a country that produces with child labour and suffers from enormous proportions of animals. Apparently, this does not prevent trade in the Netherlands, even after a clear statement by the electorate. The problem is that Ukraine is failing to implement structural human rights, animal welfare and environmental rules. By allowing Ukrainian products to enter the European market, Europe is therefore partly guilty of violating human and animal rights. About one in twenty children aged between 5 and 14 are involved in child labour in Ukraine. Children are mainly active in agriculture and mining. The minimum wage in that country is only €50 per month. In addition, the association agreement offers all the room for importing a plate full of animal suffering. Ukrainian eggs come from immense battery factories, which have been banned in Europe for years. European farmers, our farmers, will suffer. They do work with basic legal rules and face unfair competition from cheap Ukrainian products. In doing so, it is becoming even more difficult to further strengthen our welfare requirements and our environmental requirements. With the proposal for ratification, the cabinet is asking for problems. It is good that on 15 March the electorate will be able to judge a cabinet that does not want to take citizens' wishes seriously and is blinded by geopolitics and commercial interests. Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry should be stopped not only in Ukraine but also in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u39	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's been so tired all night. I think it is an honour to be on Mr Omtzigt's programme with eight other colleagues. Then Mr Voordewind may give it his blessing. The Prime Minister found his goat path and his mouse hole. You would hope that the Party for Animals could appreciate that, but that is not the case. We have been talking about this for a long time and the differences have been great, but we all have one thing in common: our patience has been put to the test. The result is worth waiting for. Both during the campaign and after that I tried to listen to my ear. I have entered into the debate with many, with supporters and opponents of the Treaty. Tonight I spoke to a number of opponents, whom we had invited. Fortunately, they are now sitting in the public gallery. With the outcome of the negotiations of Prime Minister Rutte, a legally binding decision has now been taken by the European Union. In doing so, we are, in the conviction of the VVD, doing justice to the main concerns of the opponents, but in a way that protects the security and geopolitical interests of our country and the EU. The decision makes it clear that this Treaty does not lead to Ukraine's accession to the EU. Ukraine is not getting a big bag of money as a result of this treaty. The treaty does not lead to military assistance to Ukraine, not even in the conflict with Russia. It does not lead to the influx of cheap Ukrainian workers, and we are serious about combating corruption. If it doesn't hurry, it's gonna have consequences, too. Those first three points were not membership, no bag of money and no military assistance, and were also the three demands that we, the only party, made the day after the referendum in this Chamber and expressed in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u40	Mr Ten Broeke now reiterates what has been said earlier and what has also been said by the Prime Minister: this treaty does not lead to Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Does this treaty prevent Ukraine from joining the European Union? It is Ukraine's strong desire to become a member of the European Union. Does this Treaty prevent accession to the European Union in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u41	That will be an interesting form if we have to assess treaties on what they are going to prevent instead of what they are trying to make possible. I shall leave that legal form to the international law specialist. I think it's a very interesting angle. One thing's for sure. There was nothing in the treaty that could justify membership. However, insofar as there was distrust, to some extent, I understood that there might be membership, for example because the President has indicated not only recently but also during the campaign and not long after the conclusion of the Treaty that he wants membership of the European Union, then this Treaty did not give rise to any reason and no hook. The door has now been slammed, because 28 countries, including a country like Poland, which initially wanted to say something else, have now been forced by the Dutch "no" to embrace this interpretation. With this interpretation, that door has been shut, which was perhaps still open, not so much because of the treaty, but because of the mistrust that exists about these kinds of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u42	Which door was slammed shut? Has the door of membership slammed for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u43	No, wait a minute. Now you say something else, Mr Van Bommel. Let's be specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u44	But that was my question! This was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u45	You were just on the treaty...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u46	Mr President, could you please take a seat, because it is a bit difficult if Mr Ten Broeke... I understand that this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u47	He's trying to explain something. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u48	Mr Ten Broeke now uses the words 'the door has been slammed' in the debate on possible membership. Fact one: Ukraine wants to join. The president declared it, and so the campaign was conducted in Ukraine. We've been there together. Two: there is a great deal in this treaty to bring Ukraine into line with the European Union. This applies to many areas. That fact, too, means that you can see this treaty as a stepping stone to membership. Three: Ukraine is in an area where countries can simply apply for membership. If you add those three facts together, then no door has been slammed shut. Mr Ten Broeke, which door has been slammed shut? Not the one from membership. Maybe the VVD's, but not Ukraine's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u49	The door with this treaty has been slammed shut. See how Mr. Van Bommel does this. We're gonna get to see it one more time tonight, and it's nice to see it here. It is the dialectic of the senior executive school of the SP. At first, he asked me to indicate what was not in the treaty, but that should be excluded in the treaty. Now he says that the treaty doesn't matter anymore, because Ukraine can always apply for membership. Mr Van Bommel is well aware that all countries bordering the European Union can apply for membership. Mr Van Bommel might still be able to apply for membership. However, one thing is certain. Not only did the treaty not give us the opportunity to apply for membership, but now the interpretation that was so feared has been removed. I have met this interpretation in so many rooms with Mr Van Bommel. There's mistrust there. The European Union has given rise to this mistrust in the past, I dare say. That mistrust has now been removed. There is now a legally binding text for 28 countries, with which they can only give this interpretation and no other. Countries like Poland may find something else. However, this text does not allow them to take anything else out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u50	It's distinctive. Ukraine is not bound by this legal declaration. Ukraine simply keeps all the rights of countries on the periphery of the European Union. Mr Ten Broeke is talking about a door that has been slammed shut, but all I see are open doors. I see only open doors, including those of the VVD. Nor does Mr Ten Broeke say here tonight: Ukraine can never become a member of the European Union. That's not in the statement, it's not in the treaty. Words are spoken that should be reassuring, but it is not reassuring at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u51	We're talking about the treaty tonight. For bad listeners such as Mr Van Bommel, I always mention that as well. It is striking that in his interruption he makes a big difference between the first period of his interruption and his second term. The legally binding decision has led to questions, but it is very clear. The government itself states it in the explanatory memorandum: no formal recognition is necessary because the EU-28 is about the decisions that they can take unilaterally. Therefore, Ukraine's signature is irrelevant, because Ukraine is not about it. They can want anything! By the way, they found a lot of things, too. They felt the same way before that. When we were debating, we heard Poroshenko say the same thing. Ukraine has to deal with it. We'll talk about the interpretation ourselves. The interpretation is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u52	I understand, therefore, from Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD that we are now sitting with an insert which is legally binding on matters which were not already covered by the Treaty. Well, that's a beautiful thing. The one remark that Mr Verhoeven just made behind me was very significant. He said, with this treaty. This treaty! This is not the legal basis for this treaty. But isn't Mr. Ten Broeke afraid that other goat paths and mouse holes will be found or may have been found long ago to welcome Ukraine to the EU? That's gonna happen, of course. That is why I also asked the Prime Minister whether he would do everything possible in future to oppose it, either within or outside this treaty. Does Mr Ten Broeke agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u53	As far as the latter is concerned, I think you'll be served at your beck and call. That is why you should embrace this legally binding declaration on this point alone. With regard to the first point you mentioned, I would like you to have been able to demonstrate the honesty you have shown this evening in order to know what is and is not in the Treaty, even during the campaign. But then I didn't see you. And as far as I heard your foreman, those were just lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u54	I would like to conclude for the ease that Mr Ten Broeke here tonight says that in all cases, including outside this association agreement, he will in future be in favour of Ukraine becoming a member of NATO and the EU, of military assistance and additional money, and so on. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u55	It's even stronger. In this Chamber, there is only one party that did what I think you should do here, namely the pronunciation of a referendum, a referendum that we did not take directly to heart, put in a motion and send the government out with precisely those orders. I am here today to draw a conclusion about the work done by the government over the last nine months. You've only just come to look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u56	The only appropriate solution would have been a repeal law on day one after the result of the referendum. You know that very well, no matter what you're talking about here and despite the fact that you're accusing us of everything. That would have been the only democratic way, Mr Ten Broeke, and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u57	From Mr Bertema's party, I do not allow myself to be given any lessons about democracy and certainly not about a law that has been passed here, namely the referendum law, which was written with cow letters: advising. You'd better get that term working on you. Another point that has been raised is that of the European Council's lawyer. It stated that the decision does not alter the content of the agreement. That's right, of course. That is what I am saying to Mr Beertema. The decision does not change the text as such, but it does explain how it should be interpreted. It makes clear what the text means and what it does not mean, and thus removes the fear that this Treaty will lead to undesirable consequences in those areas where many people were worried about it. The EU is distrusted, Brussels is distrusted and we are occasionally distrusted. But now we commit ourselves to an interpretation of a treaty text that even many opponents have already said: that is not the problem at all, we just do not trust what happens later. We also saw the importance of this when President Poroshenko re-exposed his wish for accession. The door's gonna be ajar. But if even one of the European leaders points out that he sees the association agreement as a prelude to the EU, for example, the Poles have done so now they have this legally binding declaration. Then I come to the fight against corruption in a functioning rule of law. I have already indicated that this is very important for entrepreneurs who want to trade. Apart from the commercial part, that is actually the insurance policy, as we have called it. The treaty already contains a stick. The Council decision confirms that we are also prepared to deal with it. So that clarity is also there for everyone who believes or fears that this treaty obliges us to provide military aid to Ukraine. The decision removes any doubt. The Convention does not contain an obligation for the EU or for Member States to provide Ukraine with military support or even a security guarantee. These are all matters which were raised by opponents, including in this Chamber. Apparently, they've read the treaty by now. This also applies to the concerns that have been expressed about additional financial support, the bag of money. The decision clearly confirms that the agreement does not impose an obligation to provide additional financial support or a bail-out clause, as some have mentioned. The agreement is therefore not about additional aid to Ukraine. Finally, it has also been clearly emphasised that the agreement is not about opening the labour market for cheap Ukrainian workers. The Treaty does not allow Ukrainians to travel freely to the EU to live or work there. In addition to all these substantive considerations that we have already discussed, there is something else going on. And that is the question as to whether this method of dealing with the outcome of a referendum is appropriate. The way in which the cabinet handled this referendum fits in with the Dutch political tradition. Minorities have traditionally been taken into account in this tradition. Here is the tradition of cooperation, of constantly trying to bridge differences and finding similarities between everyone's interests. Since the early waterboards it is normal in Dutch politics that we always try to take as many people into account as possible. Because if you win, you don't get everything. Compromise isn't treason, as you sometimes hear. No, they're land conservation. The policy of shared interests is sometimes exhausting, but over the centuries it has led to a country that is governmentable. When a Prime Minister shows leadership, he has to defend domestic and foreign interests. Moreover, the ruling of the House of Representatives and the Senate must be reconciled with the ruling of the referendum in a way that gives confidence to exporting entrepreneurs who form the basis of our prosperity for centuries. That confidence will have to be combined with the reclaiming of the confidence of renegade voters. I am well aware that this has not happened today. But me and my group take our task as follows: you must always listen. But that's not the same thing when your ears hang.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u58	I heard my colleagues say to me that an association agreement of 2,135 pages can be discussed in less than twenty minutes. That's right. Mr. Chairman. Today there is a legislative proposal that the government, three quarters of a year after a valid referendum, chooses to bring the Association Treaty into force. At the time, the CDA voted in favour of the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty referendum. I would therefore like to stress once again that we were in favour of the treaty and that we are against referendums. Of course, you can ignore the outcome of an advisory referendum, which is not legally binding, but it cannot be done democratically. On the basis of these considerations, we remain of the opinion that we should vote against the association agreement and therefore cannot be ratified. Something very strange has occurred. All the previous speakers have not mentioned one change to the Treaty. Just after the outcome of the referendum, the Prime Minister said that we cannot ratify the Treaty. The Labour Party said before the referendum that she would follow the results, D66 and GroenLinks idem. Now a solution has been found for the concerns, which consists of an insert sheet of two pages. I'm gonna go check on that insert sheet. What surprises me is not that parties are for or against, but that these parties and the government are turned on the basis of the insert. The insert as such is complete, but completely empty. Let me read out the opinion of the European Council's lawyer. "However, as indicated below, the draft decision does not alter the content of the agreement nor does it constitute a reservation on the agreement." How clear do you want a legal text? Turning to the opinion of the Council of State: "However, the current decision differs from the previous decisions mentioned above"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For this purpose, the explanatory memorandum states that the legal binding nature of the decision does not strictly extend to Ukraine." How clear do you want it to be? Ukraine is not bound. We can just walk past the points: 'Although the agreement aims to establish close and long-term relations between the parties to the agreement on the basis of common values, it does not grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for accession to the Union and does not commit to the future granting of that status to Ukraine'. The treaty covered 2,135 pages. How often do you think that it contained the term "candidate Member State of the EU"? Zero time, Chairman! No one in this whole treaty can deduce that candidate membership would follow. The Prime Minister also replied very clearly at Nieuwsuur, about a week before the referendum, that this is not about candidate membership. Now everyone's confirming that. Yeah, that's how I know a few more. Secondly, it states: "The Agreement confirms cooperation with Ukraine in the field of security, in particular on conflict prevention, crisis management and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The text does not impose an obligation on the Union or the Member States to provide collective security guarantees or other military support or assistance to Ukraine'. But the EU does not give collective security guarantees to third countries. I asked in the written round to give one example in which that guarantee was given by the EU. Zero answer, of course, because she never gives it. "Other military aid or assistance"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So we asked in the written round of questions: government, tell us on what article anyone could have thought otherwise? And again, no answer. They said: no, that is based on the debate and not on what was in the treaty. So I can continue with the points. There is nowhere in the treaty that all Ukrainian workers have the freedom to work in the EU. It doesn't say that, so it doesn't have to be concluded. So this insert on a treaty of 2,135 pages is completely empty. Then Ukraine refused to sign it. It was marvelous that the government first said that the statement on President Poroshenko's Facebook page might possibly imply that he had accepted this solution. Now there is no leader of government, no head of state in Europe or outside the European Union who speaks more often than Mr Poroshenko. If he wanted to acknowledge this, he would have really written a three-line note, but he just doesn't. He's thinking, "Forget it." In fact, he refers this to the trash can. Apart from the fact that Poroshenko doesn't like it, that the Council of State says it's empty, that the Council's legal service thinks it's empty, so do the other Member States and governments. 'Cause what did I do? I went to the other parliaments once. Would these Heads of Government consider this so important that they would tell their parliament that they would have signed it, because then it would have any meaning? Belgium, not informed. Spain, no letter to parliament. Portugal, no. Sweden, two lines, has something to do with the Netherlands. Hungary, didn't say anything. Romania, no, we're not sending a letter. Denmark, three rules, this is to solve a Dutch problem. Czech Republic, no. Lithuania, isn't. I've got the overview for whoever wants it. Everyone in Europe really thinks that this piece of paper is so insignificant that they do not even think it is necessary to inform their parliament about it. So what are we talking about with this inlay sheet? How can this insert be a reason to really change everything? That monkey also came out of the sleeve when we asked for it the first time and we didn't get an answer and we asked the second time about it: what are the most important things that are covered in the insert and that wouldn't be settled without this insert? The decision legally binds the European Member States to an interpretation of the Convention and lays down how it is to be applied. There is a public debate and the points have been clarified. But it doesn't change anything. Not an example can this government mention of what changes the insert. This is really so empty that I can't give you an explanation. Colleagues also say that it has removed unjustified concerns. So I have the next question to the Prime Minister. If there are unjustified concerns in an election debate, can you ignore the outcome? I thought the concerns were unjustified. Oh, yes, Mr. Chairman, the colleagues were looking at it. They've done some research. That investigation was carried out by someone else and did not come out until 17 November, after the solution was supposed to be there. It also showed that 16% were afraid of membership. According to the government that was decisive, it is in the documents. But if the entire 16% of the no-voters had voted yes, the result would still be no. So I mean, come on! Then there is the second question. How is cooperation with Ukraine in all other areas? We still have one very difficult cooperation: we all want the suspects of taking down the MH17 to be brought to court as soon as possible. Can the government indicate whether cooperation with Ukraine is working effectively on this issue and whether it is working optimally? I just need to hear a yes or no on that. We cannot know all the details at the moment, but can the Prime Minister indicate whether or not this cooperation is going well at the moment? For us this is a very important point, because we still have to do justice to the almost 200 Dutch people who died there. The Prime Minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u59	I'm just interrupting to determine the position right now. Do I still have to deal with Mr Omtzigt as the representative of the Christian Democrats in this Chamber who are in favour of representative democracy and an opponent of referendums? Is that right? Does Mr Omtzigt and the rest of his group take this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u60	We're not in favour of referendums, but if you keep them, you can't just ignore the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u61	That's true, but if you're in favour of representative democracy at the same time, you're supposed to weigh that up. So you have to start interpreting what the "no" is based on. What Mr Omtzigt is doing now is to say that the deposit sheet, the declaration that has been drawn up, does not change the Treaty. He was already in favour of the treaty. So you are faced with the choice of rejecting the treaty you are in favour of. That's what the CDA's gonna do later. Mr Omtzigt is a supporter of representative democracy. What has Mr Omtzigt done to weigh? After all, he must balance a no vote with his own forevote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u62	The balance was made by the more than 4 million Dutch people who voted in that referendum. Like a number of other parties, we said that we would follow that outcome. In fact, we have asked the Prime Minister twice in writing and once orally for three times before the referendum what would happen in the event of a 'no', so that people would also know what would happen in that case. There was no answer to that at the time. We have said: we are following the results. I have seen something very strange about this: that a number of people here in the Chamber at one time think that this insert, as Mr Ten Broeke rightly calls it, would change anything about any reality. Quod nun! In this way, the solution is fundamentally different from the solutions found after the referendum in Denmark and after the referendum in Ireland where things were still changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u63	That was because there were objections in those referendums that focused on the content of the treaty. If Mr Omtzig had campaigned with us, he would also have noticed that a lot of people say: we are not concerned with the treaty, we are concerned that we do not trust that something will not be found out later. That is being taken away here, but Mr Omtzig is waving it away. I note that Mr Omtzigt, who says he is still in favour of representative democracy, is not only putting aside his important task here, but also making an advisory referendum a de facto binding referendum. That is a very interesting figure in the history of Christian democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u64	We're making a weighing here. For example, if Mr Ten Broeke had read the investigation he cited himself, he would have read that the main concern had to do with the problem of corruption in Ukraine. That was by far the most important concern. We're not gonna change that for a second. That's why people said no. If that no vote is there, that no vote is there. Then you can follow it, too. Mr Ten Broeke is turning the line right now. In Mr Ten Broeke's view, I must always find a way of not respecting the outcome of the referendum. That is a reversal of reality. He says, "You don't agree, you can't." The Prime Minister has said that before. He said, "CDA unworthy." It is therefore unworthy to see the outcome of a referendum as something important, to see that result as input for your political action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u65	Mr Ten Broeke, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u66	Mr Omtzigt himself deals with what he thinks he should do and how he thinks he should respect the 'no'. It will be interesting to find out later how he thinks this bill will work in his party in the future. It is only striking that, unlike the history of his party, he says here: I reject the interpretation, I reject this cabinet's attempt to address the concerns that do not focus on substantive provisions in the treaty but on what might emerge from it. Mr Omtzigt de facto makes an advisory referendum a law which we have all discussed here and which the CDA has voted against, a binding referendum, but he is actually opposed to a referendum. That's not rhymeable. Mr Omtzig is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u67	Oh! We're dealing with a Democrat here. If the majority in this Chamber decides that there is a referendum, then there is a referendum. Then you will not hear me question the legitimacy of the referendum, I repeat. Even if 76 Members are in favour of it, we have seen it today in the weed law. The law is passed. It's as simple as it is. I'd be the last one who wouldn't respect that. Otherwise, I wouldn't even be in parliament. Mr Ten Broeke wants to talk about Christian democracy, but Mr Ten Broeke's party is the party that pretended to get €1,000 before the elections and pretended to have the mortgage interest secure. Before the election, the VVD said you wouldn't support Greece if you voted for the VVD. After the elections, exactly the opposite happened. That is why I asked Prime Minister: if there were politicians who shouted before the elections something they couldn't deliver at all and what wasn't even on paper, does that mean that the result is invalid? Is the VVD going to take my mind off the question of whether I can respect the outcome of a referendum? It shouldn't be more laughing than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u68	I repeat that I have just said very clearly that Mr Omtzigt himself is concerned with the question of how he intends to respect the outcome. So I'm not taking him into account at all, but I'll bring in the history of his party. I have to say that, while Mr Omtzigt is so committed to complying with the law, we have here a law in which cow letters are written 'it is an advisory referendum' and that there is therefore the possibility of weighing things up and reaching a different conclusion. In his reply, Mr Omtzigt falls back on a number of election slogans, but I can only say that I cannot wait until I meet Mr Omtzigt to discuss all the broken promises made by this vacationist opposition party over the last four years in every room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u69	I kind of like being a vacationist opposition party. Either I had a holiday, or I had an opposition, but I could hardly have done both at the same time. That is exactly the internal contradiction that the VVD encounters every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u70	Mr Omtzigt is a very clever and very precise man. He thinks: I'm going to have a textexegesis to show that the insert doesn't change anything about the treaty. That's right: it doesn't change the treaty either. It changes the interpretation of the Treaty. The interpretation of the Treaty has become so important because the campaign was about things that were not in the Treaty. Mr Omtzigt can explain here for an hour what is going on, but I would like to see something else that he has to clarify. He just hit the VVD hard. I can appreciate that in itself. But speaking of clarity before and after the elections... The CDA is also incredibly double-hearted here by being tough in the Lower House, while everyone knows that after the elections on 15 March, when this is dealt with in the Upper Chamber, the CDA will help this law to a majority? Everybody knows that, doesn't they? Can Mr Omtzigt comment on that? Can he shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u71	The first is the question: does anything change the interpretation of the Treaty? This is just a misleading sentence. For Ukraine, it does not change the interpretation of the Convention. I do not know where colleagues get this every time. Ukraine has not accepted it under Vienna Treaty law. However, it is said that it does change the interpretation of the Treaty. I'm getting to the point of membership. I have heard people say that Ukraine is seeking membership. I would like to know who said that, on the basis of this treaty, candidate status is granted. No one said that. That is exactly what this statement denies in a very clever way. There have been people who have said: this is a step towards membership. In Ukraine, they have those aspirations, too. However, I have not heard any politicians and I have not heard any of my colleagues say so far that I am aware of the fact that the Treaty grants candidate membership to one of the last speakers. That is exactly what is denied in the insert. Those cleverness are in the insert. Then there is the second point. The Second and First Chambers are both elected without burden. They make their own decision. The reason why this treaty is now being discussed is not due to delays on the part of the CDA Group. We did not choose this timing. This cabinet chose that timing, because it took the cabinet nine months to submit a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u72	With regard to this interpretation, Mr Omtzig makes it appear as if I was talking about Ukraine's interpretation. That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about the interpretation by the Dutch electorate. Of course, the inlay sheet has an influence on that, because that makes it clear that the five major concerns of the electorate are being removed. That's very important. Mr Omtzigt pretends to be the only one who knows what is going on. He keeps a story in the vein of: we shouldn't fool the voter, we shouldn't pretend. However, if you do exist to say in the Lower House that your group is going to vote against something, but that you are waiting for the elections because it is convenient, and that your group in the Upper House is then the group that helps the cabinet to a majority, then you are fooling the voter in a terrible way. You say something different before the elections than after the elections. Then you're gonna do the biggest electoral deception that's pretty much invented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u73	I was expecting this, but it's a little late. Be honest about what's happening. We have nothing to do with planning a bill. That's what the government's about. I don't know what the CDA group in the First Chamber is gonna do either. That group is independent. I can honestly say that I hope that this group will follow our line. Perhaps that will happen, but there is also a substantive weighting. Then something about the five major concerns that are being taken away. I have only worked out one of these five issues, Mr President, partly because you asked me not to speak for 20 minutes. But we're talking about membership. The only thing that is denied in the insert is that the treaty grants the status of candidate membership. Tomorrow, under Article 49 of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union, Ukraine may submit a request for membership under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which precedes the use of Article 50 of the United Kingdom, but that can provide for a veto by any country at that time. So I wonder what concern will be taken away in this respect. That is why I asked Mr Verhoeven if there is anyone in the country who can find a quote that grants this treaty the status of candidate membership. I didn't hear it anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u74	The CDA group here in the Lower House is now tough and voting against, but the CDA group in the Upper House will help the proposal to reach a majority. That's very clear. I hope that all voters will have this in their minds on 15 March, if they consider it so important. Then membership. Mr Omtzigt is right. Before this association agreement existed, Ukraine was able to apply as a candidate for membership of the European Union. Then came the treaty. At that time many people said: Ukraine will become a member of this treaty. That's not true, because it wasn't in the treaty. That is what Mr Omtzigt said. Now there will be an inlay, as Mr Omtzigt calls it, which states that Ukraine does not have a greater chance of membership on the basis of the Treaty. Mr Omtzigt now says, like Mr Beertema and Mr Van Bommel, yes, but they still have the opportunity to join. That is true, but on other roads than through the Treaty. Then it is quite clear that there is no membership from the treaty. Then we can be clear about that if that is the concern of the Dutch electorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u75	Mr Verhoeven has already changed the text of the insert. It says literally: this agreement does not grant Ukraine the status of candidate country. It doesn't say, "... doesn't increase the chances of..." If the term "EU membership" does not appear in the Convention, that status shall not be granted. However, it does not say anything about future opportunities. That is precisely why Poland has agreed to this. Mr Verhoeven knows that very well. He also knows very well that he said to his constituents that he would follow the outcome of the referendum. That's what he said until after the treaty was signed, including for the cameras. Now, however, he says something else, and then he shouts very loudly about other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u76	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour and request to give the blessing, as I understand from Mr Ten Broeke. I won't. I will stick to my own text and not repeat Mr Omtzigt's text. I am allowed to speak on behalf of the SGP; perhaps that will help. Ten months ago, there was a clear 'no' to the question: are you for or against the law approving the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine? The result of the referendum was clear. Today, exactly the same association agreement is before the Chamber and a majority is voting in favour of the legislative proposal to approve the agreement. The Prime Minister said on the night of the referendum result: ratification cannot go on. He mentioned that days, if not weeks, would be needed to find a solution. It was eight months. The big question is: what exactly did these eight months yield? Has anything changed? My group appreciated the Prime Minister's efforts, but our conclusion is that the result has not led to any substantial change. That's what it was all about after all. According to the Advocate-General, this point has already been raised several times, the Annex does not alter the content of the Association Agreement nor does it constitute a reservation with regard to the Association Agreement. In fact, the decision should not contain any elements which alter the content of the rights and obligations contained in this agreement. In short, nothing changes. There's just been a list of things that the agreement isn't about. Can the Prime Minister, if he does not agree with this, provide an overview of matters which are substantially altered by Sections A to F of the Decision in relation to the Association Agreement? I ask the cabinet: what is the added value of a declaration that does not add or modify to the treaty? Does the Prime Minister recognise that there is in fact nothing more or less ahead of what was presented to the citizens in the referendum last year? It is also clear that the additional declaration is not binding on Ukraine. The country hasn't signed anything. This was also acknowledged by the cabinet in the last written reply. In practice, too, it appears that Ukraine does not feel bound by the declaration. President Poroshenko recently expressed the wish to become a member of the European Union. He mentioned that it would not be long before Ukraine met the criteria for becoming a member of the European Union. That surprises me, because the European Court of Auditors recently took a very negative view of corruption in the country itself. It is also directly contrary to section A of the supplementary declaration on accession to the European Union. All this shows two things: Ukraine does not care about the additional statement and nothing has actually changed as a result of the additional statement. Because, as the cabinet says, Ukraine can always apply for membership on the basis of the Union Treaty. It was last year, and it still is. The Christian Union is in favour of European cooperation, but we must recognise that a stronger Europe does not always benefit from'more Europe' and further political integration. There's growing discomfort in the population. Decisions on European cooperation have largely been taken over the heads of ordinary people. People feel "what we say doesn't matter; Europe goes on without us, but it does about us." We see great faults in today's Europe. Between the directors in Brussels on the one hand and the people on the other. Between North and South. Between the British and the European Union. Between anti- and pro-Europe. Somewhere along the way, the European Union has forgotten the citizens, while the train of European integration is getting worse. It is precisely this alienation that is the greatest threat to Europe's future. People who say "no listening to me" are once again confirmed in their suspicions, and that is extremely damaging. Finally, we have previously agreed to the association agreement, but now we are faced with a new choice. Citizens have been allowed to speak. 4 million people voted against the association agreement. The entry threshold has been reached and the result is valid. We must therefore seriously consider the clear "no'. It is a balance between ignoring the no vote and its democratic damage and the great geopolitical interests. The government wants to do justice to both the outcome of the consultative referendum and the importance of the association agreement. My group concludes that after eight months nothing has changed about the agreement. There's just been a list of things that the agreement isn't about. That actually ignores the no vote. I can't draw a different conclusion. How can I put it? You have to do justice to the no vote against the agreement. Otherwise, you'll feed the distrust of politics. This will deepen the gap between citizens and politics and further reduce the support for European cooperation. All things considered, the Christian Union cannot agree to the law of approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u77	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u78	Mr. Chairman. This is certainly not the first time we have discussed this subject here in the Chamber. I noticed some fatigue among some Members of Parliament and a renewed enthusiasm in others. However, with a certain probability, we know that this is one of the last, or perhaps the last, debate that Mr Van Bommel is having in this Chamber. Can I say the following for my part? Although Mr Van Bommel and the government found it a pleasure to often, or actually disagree on everything, the government at the same time found it a great pleasure to discuss with Mr Van Bommel, because the debates with him are always fair, focused on the content, never been played on the man, and are always stylish. Mr Van Bommel has always been very well informed. That is what I wanted to say at this particular moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u79	Mr. Van Bommel!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u80	The pleasure was completely mutual. It is always a pleasure to disagree with the Prime Minister in a civilised way. We've done that a lot. On behalf of myself, I would like to thank the whole government, which speaks with one voice, for that. I know I could always count on you. But you're not done with me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u81	No, we still have 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u82	I know I can count on you in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u83	Sure. I wish you all the best for the future. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to begin with a brief outline of the context in which this debate is taking place. I would ask you, after me, to give the Foreign Minister an opportunity to say something about that international context. I would like to summarize that context in a few words. Something's going on in the world. There is great instability. We see the situation in America with the new American government. We take note of the ongoing tensions between Russia and Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea and the interference with the situation in eastern Ukraine. We are seeing the situation in North Africa, particularly in Libya and Egypt. There is great concern about developments in the Middle East Peace Process. And, of course, we also have the ongoing fight against ISIS, but also the extremely worrying situation in Syria. Against this background, the Dutch Government considers it its task to ensure that the Netherlands remains stable and safe. This includes the fact that the Netherlands is a member of international organisations and associations, such as the European Union and NATO, which help the government and our country to remain stable and safe. This includes the fact that we in the Netherlands always do our best to invest in that membership and in those associations. Against this background, the government considered that the slim-handed rejection of the association agreement with Ukraine did not contribute to the necessary European unity towards Moscow and Russia. That is why we have sought a solution which, on the one hand, prevents us from breaking this European unity, and, on the other hand, we can ensure that we can respond as best as possible to the concerns that emerged during the debate in the run-up to the referendum in Dutch society, and which, as the outcome showed, ultimately also made the difference. We believe that we have formulated such a response with this decision by the Heads of State or Government meeting within the European Council. A few questions have been asked. Of course, some of those were questions that we had cut before. It has been asked: is this the authoritative instrument of international law? The answer is yes. As Members know, the association agreement is a multilateral, legally binding agreement that creates rights and obligations over and over again. By this Decision, the 28 Member States of the European Union legally commit themselves at the highest level to an interpretation of that association agreement. Mr Verhoeven asked whether this meant that other interpretations could be excluded. The answer to that question is yes. Questions have been asked as to whether Ukraine should also sign this decision. The answer is no. It is a question of interpreting all these commitments arising from everything that has been undertaken on the side of the 28 Member States of the European Union. In this sense, it does not matter whether the President of Ukraine has accepted the decision. That does not matter for the legal value of the decision, because it concerns matters that lie with the EU and its Member States, the way in which we as 28 Member States deal with our side of the obligations. This also concerns the whole issue of combating corruption. Article 478 states that appropriate measures may be taken if a party fails to comply with the essential elements of the agreement. In the extreme case, that's suspension. This interpretative and legally binding decision of the European Heads of Government once again states that the Union and therefore the Member States are actually able to take these appropriate measures. As I said earlier, it is important that Ukraine does not run away from the association agreement on the basis of this decision by the European Heads of State or Government. That is why I and others have kept in close contact with, among others, the President and the Government of Ukraine. We are pleased that they have said that they understand what the European Member States have done here and that they can live with it. But once again, they do not have to make a legal commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u84	In my view, the Prime Minister says it quite correctly: they do not have to commit to this and it concerns, first and foremost, the EU Member States. But does the Prime Minister share my view that it would be of added value and that it would be an important signal if Ukraine were to commit itself to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u85	No, because this is about commitments made by the 28 Member States and how we deal with our side of the obligations under the association agreement. This is not a question of how Ukraine will ultimately deal with the obligations arising for Ukraine under the Association Agreement. Of course, the interpretation of the European Union does have significance for Ukraine, but it is indirect. The interpretation that we give on our side of the commitments obviously has an effect on Ukraine, but not in such a way that Ukraine must declare itself legally binding on these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u86	Ukraine does make statements and says it can live with the declaration. This is also a declaration of intent, which is not legally binding but should nevertheless have political significance. What then prevents us, as the European Union or as the Netherlands, from saying: let us simply lay down this intention legally? That's just more certain, isn't it? You may have good intentions, but if you put them in writing and sign them, they just have a little more meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u87	It is not necessary because it is about how the 28 Member States deal with their obligations under the Association Agreement. It's not about something Ukraine needs to do. On the other hand, you want to prevent Ukraine from leaving the association agreement because the 28 European Member States give an interpretative explanation of how they will deal with the association agreement. Ukraine has declared not to run away. In fact, Ukraine has declared its understanding of this decision by the European Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u88	The Declaration states in point A that the Association Treaty does not include a commitment to future European Union membership for Ukraine. If you so explicitly agree with the 28 Member States, will it help Ukraine, through the President, to say that it wants to become a member of the European Union as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u89	That has nothing to do with the association agreement. The Association Agreement gives no guarantee or commitment now or in the future for EU membership. Moreover, this "in the future too" was an extremely sensitive issue. I can tell you that some of my European colleagues had great difficulty with this. I very much attached that to it. In the end, it did. However, this association agreement does not offer any prospect of membership. However, I thought that Mr Ten Broeke said that in his contribution after an interruption, every country bordering Europe could of course say that it wanted to join the EU. The position of the Netherlands is clear: we are not waiting for enlargement of the Union. In any case, I will always oppose Ukraine's membership, because I believe, and that is also the government's view, that Ukraine should be a country that, if relations with Russia were ever to normalize again, would build a good relationship with both Europe and Russia, given its historical links with both Europe and Russia and also given its location. I am therefore opposed to EU membership, now or in the future, of Ukraine. The Association Agreement also does not provide any insight into membership. That's what that point in the statement is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u90	However, according to this study, there were concerns among the no-voters that this would be an adaptation to EU membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u91	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u92	Those concerns were the Prime Minister's intention to take away with the statement. Does it then help that Ukraine itself says: thank you for the statement, but that does not stop us from doing everything possible to become a member as soon as possible? That's two signals, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u93	No, every country bordering Europe has the right to say that it wants to become a member of the European Union. It is then up to the European Union to decide how it deals with it. In the social debate leading up to the referendum, in the Netherlands, but also internationally, a considerable body of opinion was of the opinion that although this is not literally stated in the association agreement, the agreement is indeed a first step towards membership of the European Union now or in the future. It has now been established that this is not the case. This association agreement does not in any way give Ukraine the right to think that it can become a member of the European Union now or in the future because of the association agreement. However, it may have that ambition, as other countries do. It's okay. Then we'll deal with that. Mr Voordewind knows the Dutch Government's position: we are not in favour of this for the reasons I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u94	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u95	That actually confirms what Mr Van Bommel just said, namely that it might have helped if Ukraine had signed the declaration, because then the 28 and Ukraine would have been in line with the expectations of the future. Then there would also have been clarity for the Netherlands and the voters in the referendum. Now you get two totally opposite sounds and there is noise again regarding the people who have expressed their opinion on this. That is a missed opportunity, isn't it, now that Ukraine hasn't signed that declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u96	There's no noise on the line. This noise would arise if, following this decision by the European Heads of State or Government, it were still claimed that Ukraine would now or in the future have a view of membership of the European Union under the association agreement. That's out of the question. That is now also recorded in black and white. That is legally binding. In addition, a country bordering Europe, regardless of this, may decide to apply for membership. That is what we have to relate to. The Dutch Government has a strong view on this. We consider it very important that Ukraine also builds a strong relationship with Russia. Now that is impossible, but hopefully the situation will normalize. Hopefully, Russia will withdraw from Crimea and stop interfering with Eastern Ukraine at some point, allowing a normalization of relations with Russia. What we see before us in the longer term is a Ukraine that builds both a relationship with Russia, with which it has historical ties, and with the European Union, because Ukraine also has historical links with it. As we all know, part of Ukraine was once part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Ukraine has also been part of the Soviet Union for some time and there are historical links with the city of Kiev in particular. From that postulate, it is of great value that Ukraine, in a somewhat further future, should be able to build a strong relationship with Russia and Europe as soon as possible. Now that is impossible with Russia; I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u97	I sense that we are almost ready to answer the first question I asked. But, I still hear a certain hesitation with the Prime Minister. He says: me and the government are not in favour of further enlargement of the EU to Ukraine. But when it comes to it, is the Prime Minister also an active opponent? Is he really gonna lie down if it ever comes to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u98	That is totally out of the question. In Europe, at the moment, there is absolutely no support for EU membership. Perhaps Poland or some other Eastern European member, but the vast majority of EU Member States are absolutely opposed to EU membership of Ukraine. To invest political capital on something that isn't going to happen, I don't think it makes any sense. I will explain to Mr Beertema: in international meetings you should be particularly concerned about things that are at risk of going wrong and not about things that are already going well; you should not be tambourising on them. That's gonna cost you coins that you want to bet on files that are relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u99	We do politics here, and in politics, anything can happen. Anything can happen there, often to our great sorrow. Imagine how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u100	Then the Netherlands will be against it; I have told you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u101	Are you going to actively conduct politics to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u102	Yeah, but this isn't the issue at all. The answer is yes, of course, but this is not going to happen. I'm really not worried about that. No one wants this at all, except perhaps a single Eastern European Member State. As far as ratification by other parliaments is concerned, it is up to countries themselves to deal with the decision they have taken. Neither the meaning nor the legal link of the decision depends on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u103	I have received an answer from about half of the number of parliaments, namely 20 parliaments. I have received absolutely no information from about 15 parliaments. Only Finland has provided a fairly complete information; at least in view of the number of opportunities, because I have not yet been able to take it entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u104	Your Finnish is a little sloppy, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u105	My Finnish is a little sloppy. Of the other languages I do understand something or in all honesty those countries were so kind to share it in English. How do you assess the fact that almost all your colleagues in the European Council have thought: we are doing this in order to solve a Dutch problem, so the Germans say literally too, and we do not even have to share this? Did your colleagues miss a very important statement or do we overestimate the importance of this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u106	It is up to the governments of the European Member States to decide whether and to what extent they inform their parliaments of the decision taken. Neither the meaning nor the legal link of the decision depends on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u107	What is the crucial element in this decision that the Heads of State or Government should have mentioned to their parliaments in the eyes of the Dutch Government, because this could be crucial to what is stated in the declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u108	This is funny, because I have a lot of discussions here with Mr Omtzig about how we, as a government, should inform the Dutch Parliament. It seems that this is now satisfactory and that Mr Omtzigt has now decided to worry about how other governments inform their parliaments. It is the standard practice to refer questions of this type to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but in this particular case I will not do so. I am pleased that I can conclude from this that Mr Omtzigt is now satisfied with the information position of the Dutch Parliament on the European Union's dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u109	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u110	I'm totally not satisfied with the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u111	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u112	So much so that at the moment the parliamentary lawyer writes an opinion on the total lack of information from this government. However, I have to admit that we are well informed about the insert. We have received documents from the lawyer who were "limité" and we have also received the statements. So there are no misunderstandings on this point, but I am left with this point: either this statement is important and there are important things in it, it is reported to the other parliaments or it is totally irrelevant. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u113	Once again, it is up to the other Member States to deal with their parliaments. The other day I spoke to my German colleague who said: Ah, Mark, du hast einen goeden Tag in the Dutch Parliament are preparing the European Council. I said: yes, that's how we do it in the Netherlands. She's gonna make a statement for half an hour and leave. This is the way things vary from one parliament to another. We have the habit of discussing this very extensively here. I find that very pleasurable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u115	There are a few more questions; we're almost through. The first question concerns the aspect of the trade agreement. A study by SEO shows that the longer term trade agreement has a positive impact on bilateral trade between the Netherlands and Ukraine. The volume of Dutch exports to Ukraine will almost triple, in the direction of 4.2 billion. Imports of Dutch imports from Ukraine will almost double to 1.3 billion. The overall impact on the Dutch economy is also positive. Mrs Thieme asked questions about eggs, laying batteries and also child labour. It is precisely in these areas that the Association Agreement contributes to improving the situation. It has now been agreed that Ukraine should align its legislation with that of the European Union, including with regard to animal welfare. The cooperation with Ukraine in the field of MH17 has been asked. The answer to the question of whether this cooperation is fruitful and successful is yes. We have good cooperation with Ukraine. We are grateful for Ukraine's help in the post-disaster period and since then. Thanks to Ukraine's support, the victims of the MH17 could be recovered and brought to the Netherlands, also with the necessary tribute on the Ukrainian side. Ukraine was willing to transfer the leadership of the technical investigation to the Research Council for Security and the coordination of criminal investigation to the Dutch OM. We are now working closely with Ukrainian colleagues, with the necessary results, as we saw at the presentation of the Joint Investigation Team on September 28th last year, that impressive presentation that was broadcast on the networks worldwide. It is my expectation and hope that, from the shared interest, the Netherlands and Ukraine will continue to work together to bring the truth to light and effectively prosecute the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u116	Furthermore, Mrs Thieme left the sitting because of obligations elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u117	That last one's good to hear. So the good cooperation with Ukraine also extends to it as soon as possible, of course after thorough investigation, bringing suspects to court from taking down the MH17?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u118	That's not just with Ukraine. We do this in the Joint Investigation Team with Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, Ukraine and the Netherlands. We work very well together in that. We also met again today with the most concerned ministers. We do this very regularly, on all aspects of the consequences of this terrible disaster with the MH17. In fact, not a week goes by for the ministers most concerned that they do not discuss this in any form and take steps. But now the work is done in great independence by the Public Prosecutor. This is happening within the Joint Investigation Team. Ukraine makes a good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u119	It's nice to know. Thank you for this clear answer. I've been at the microphone for a while and actually had a completely different question. It was about the Prime Minister's claim that it leads to additional economic growth. Has SEO also made an estimate of economic growth? Yes, it's already five answers back, so I understand the Prime Minister's browsing. Is there any estimate of how much economic growth the treaty could bring?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u120	I had that question right in front of me. Ah, here he is. The overall impact on the Dutch economy is positive, but small in size. If we include all the direct and indirect trade effects of the Free Trade Agreement, Dutch GDP will increase by 177 million as a result of the trade agreement. Thus, although this effect is limited, it can make a much greater difference for certain sectors. In this way, it seems that it has a significant significance for Dutch exporters of machinery, accounting for one third of Dutch exports to Ukraine. Another example is that of Dutch cheese makers. They export 1 million kilos of cheese a year to Ukraine. So far they have paid 10% to enter the Ukrainian market. Now that is 6% and in three years it will be 0%. These are a number of visible effects. Of course, they are limited because trade with Ukraine is not that big, but it has a positive impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u121	So it's worth 0.03% extra economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u122	Only Mr Omtzigt can calculate it so quickly. There was another question about the Brexit. At present, it is unknown what this type of association agreement, including the association agreement with Ukraine, will have the consequences of a Member State leaving the European Union. It depends, inter alia, on the conditions of the Brexit and on the wishes of the parties to the Association Agreement. At least it's not automatically off the track. I can say to Mr Grashoff: yes. A so-called Association Council shall be held annually under the Association Agreement. In addition to the annual summits, it has the task of monitoring the implementation of the agreement at a high political level and of monitoring progress in the implementation of the agreements. The cabinet will share the implementation reports from these meetings of the Association Council with the Chamber, also in response to Mr Grashoff's question. It reports on all relevant aspects. I believe that I have answered all the questions on behalf of the government. If the Chamber agrees with that, I would suggest that Mr Koenders should be able to comment on the geopolitical context in which this is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u123	Thank you. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u124	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because the Prime Minister has already said something about it at the beginning. Perhaps it is now appropriate to thank the Chamber for its input into the debates. We have discussed the association agreement on several occasions. Before the referendum, there was an extensive debate. After the referendum, the government, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, put its political capital to the maximum on a good balance between doing justice to the concerns of the Dutch people as expressed by the referendum, the multilateral nature of the agreement and, of course, the geopolitical context. In this context, I would also like to thank Members for the good comments they have made on the people of our ministry, who have indeed had to operate in that very complex spectrum in order to ensure a satisfactory solution. I can now be brief on the geopolitical aspects. In the past period it has become very clear that there are strong Dutch interests. The unity of the European Union is more important than ever because of the risk that the Russian Federation will drive a wedge within the European Union. The situation in Ukraine itself also underlines the importance that the people there attach to the association agreement by a large majority. Those frameworks, which have also become the subject of international politics over the past few years, perhaps even more impregnant than they were a year and a half ago, force us to shape this solution in such a way that that interest is also at stake. It's really important to say that here. It is not easy to take the concerns of the Dutch people very seriously at the same time in a first consultative referendum, with a clear result, and to negotiate with all our fellow Members, especially the Prime Minister, who did so in close contact with Ukraine, in order to ensure that this is done in a way that serves the Dutch interests and interests of the Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u125	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'm looking at the spokesmen. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u126	Madam President. Much has been said both by the Foreign Minister and by the Prime Minister about the geopolitical situation around Ukraine, but we could also say: around the European Union and Russia. We must note that the situation in Ukraine has deteriorated further in recent weeks and months and that new geopolitical steps have been taken. This means that we have to ask ourselves what is now serving to achieve a more geopolitically stable situation in Ukraine itself, but also in the region and in the relationship between the European Union and Russia. I believe that this treaty, which has been concluded, is not serving to achieve that stability and that it further stimulates the contradictions in Ukraine itself. My group therefore continues to regret the fact that this treaty has been drawn up and will eventually be ratified. Now it is important to consider how we can limit further damage. That is why I have stressed that it would indeed be important for Ukraine to commit itself legally to the declared intention. After all, we know that Ukraine actually has a different agenda. They're just open to that, too. Accession to the European Union is the objective and the Association Treaty is the means of getting closer to the European Union. No matter what we think about it and whatever statements we make to ourselves, as long as Ukraine does not feel legally bound to it and expresses fine intentions, I think we are failing ourselves. We are not thereby promoting the process, which should lead to the stability that everyone in this region wants. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Council of State concludes that the legal bindingness of the "binding declaration" to be used as a response to the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, with 61% of voters voting against the association agreement, "is strictly not extended to Ukraine";]] [[Whereas this declaration is thus a paper tiger who in no way removes the concerns of the electorate;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that Ukraine signs the legal declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34669-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u127	Mr. Chairman. I asked a few simple questions to the Prime Minister. These questions were not limited to the association agreement, but extended to the "post-association agreement period." I didn't hear any answers. I can say the answers were disappointing, but I didn't hear them. Only the first question has been answered loud and clear. The Prime Minister will continue to make every effort to prevent Ukraine from becoming a member of the EU beyond this treaty. However, I still have the following question. Does the Prime Minister promise that he will live up to his statement 'if you love Europe, stop dreaming of more Europe'? Is he going to say that he, with his VVD, will fight against the further federalisation of the EU? Will the Prime Minister also oppose the plans to levy EU taxes? Will the Prime Minister also turn against a much higher EU budget? Will the Prime Minister also oppose more opportunities for the EU to incur debt on its own? And finally, will the Prime Minister oppose the formation of an EU army? Those are the concerns that live with our constituents. I didn't get an answer to that. I do not want to conclude that the Prime Minister does not want to answer it because he does not want to be guilty of new broken promises. We had the €1,000 for each working, no more money to the Greeks, the recurring question whether the Prime Minister was telling the truth about his role in handling the Bitch Deal. I imagine he's avoiding the answers because he doesn't want to be accused of any further broken promises in the future either. But I also do not want the Prime Minister to repeat an illusion to the electorate when he says he wants to save Europe and therefore stop dreaming about more Europe. There is a promise in that. If I listen carefully, then that promise can also be broken. I believe that the Prime Minister, with Verhofstadt, with ALDE, is going for further federalisation in Brussels. I think he's headed for a European superstate, the united states of Europe. Here we hear another story. I wouldn't want the Prime Minister to further undermine that piece of credibility that still exists. So I'd like to get an answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u128	Mr. Chairman. I will be brief in this second term. As I said earlier, this proposal for approval shows the contempt of this cabinet for the Dutch electorate. It undermines confidence in politics in the broad sense and nourishes mistrust. The only right decision that the Chamber can make now to stop this cabinet is to vote against this proposal. I therefore call once again on all Members of this Chamber not to choose the party's interest, but for the interest of the Dutch electorate. Do justice to the outcome of the referendum and vote against the proposal for ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u129	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. I only asked one question. What happened over the past year doesn't deserve a beauty prize. I agree. Anyone who says that is right. But the degradation policy we have seen over the past year is much worse. First, lies are spread. There have been constant claims about things that did not come out of the treaty. It was then said that the solution put forward by the cabinet to remove these lies and interpretations does not change the substance of the association agreement. That is true, because it is intended to undermine the lies that have been spread, so that the people no longer have the concerns that have come from what has been said. The parties who oppose this solution will then go ahead and do not deserve a beauty prize; I admit that this is a different way of criticizing it. The Party for Animals is going to misquote parties. Mr Monasch is going to misunderstand election programmes. The SP talks about a stepping stone all the time, without making it clear what that is. She pretends to have membership because Mr. Poroshenko calls it. That's not true at all. There will be no membership, and Mr Van Bommel knows that very well. In the meantime, the PVV has simply admitted that the association agreement is not going to change anything. The PVV has just admitted that, but it is once again asking a number of conspiracy questions over the period after the association agreement. After all, there must be a new conspiracy, because the old conspiracy no longer exists. The CDA still gives a kind of text exegesis, just to hide the fact that it is going to vote for this treaty in the First Chamber. Thus, this policy of degradation does not deserve a beauty prize. At least D66 isn't involved. I indicated that on the way we would have preferred the cabinet to have done a number of things differently. It didn't. I find that disappointing, but the outcome achieved by the cabinet is clear and takes away the five major concerns that I have constantly heard in the Chambers. The Prime Minister has just clearly confirmed that. That is why D66 will vote in favour of the adoption law, at least if the D66 Group will follow my advice on this matter. I still have to defend that opinion in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u130	Mr Verhoeven took over the role of Mr Ten Broeke. At the end of the debate, it always sums up the contributions of the others, but in its own opinion. I understand that Mr Verhoeven can do that now, because he is on the list of speakers earlier. He is probably also doing so with the agreement of Ten Broeke, because that also saves him speaking time. Verhoeven clearly says here: Ukraine is not becoming a member of the European Union. I'd like to ask him, where does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u131	That is the reversal that Mr Van Bommel has been trying to use for a year to turn the debate into his own. That's what I said during my interruption. Prior to this association agreement, there were opportunities for Ukraine to apply for membership. During and after the period of the Association Agreement there are still the same possibilities. Mr Van Bommel has constantly suggested in every room where we stood that this association agreement was a stepping stone to membership. That does not say anything, and Mr Van Bommel must admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u132	My question hasn't been answered or actually a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u133	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u134	A little bit, because it doesn't say anything. Mr Verhoeven acknowledged that Ukraine could simply apply for membership. It could. It can. And it's gonna be okay. This treaty links Ukraine more closely with the European Union in a number of political areas. That's just what the treaty says, and that's why I call it a stepping stone. So Mr Verhoeven's earlier claim that Ukraine is not becoming a member of the European Union is not based on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u135	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u136	For what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u137	That's a political statement. It is based, for example, on the fact that there are 150 members here in the House of Representatives who all say that Ukraine cannot become a member of the European Union. That is a political statement, Mr Van Bommel. That's an important statement. Next, I would like to say the following. Mr Van Bommel is perhaps here today at his last debate. I have had many debates with him and I have appreciated him very much during all these debates. I'll say the same for my part. We have had nice debates together in all these rooms, those smoky rooms. That was fun. But one thing was always really crazy. I said every time: this association agreement cannot be said to be a trigger, an incentive, a stepping stone or a road to membership. Mr Van Bommel has always said that this is true, but then he asked: yes, but where does it say that they cannot become members? That really is a reversal of reality. And then you actually say, because something isn't in it, it's not excluded that it doesn't happen. If you have debates in this way, you can never clarify what is in a text, because that is what you say: I read the text on the basis of what is not in it. If we read lyrics that way, we'll all get nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u138	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u139	Words have their meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u140	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u141	If Mr Verhoeven says here 'Ukraine cannot become a member of the European Union', that is factually wrong. That's not true. Ukraine can simply apply and there can be a political majority; we are going to the elections. Ukraine can apply for and even obtain that membership. So, Mr Verhoeven, you cannot live up to the fact that Ukraine cannot become a member or that it is impossible for that to happen. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u142	Mr Van Bommel is right about that. No one can rule that out. But if Mr Van Bommel were to be honest with the Dutch electorate about the real risk that Ukraine would become a member within the next 20, 25, 30, 40 or 50 years, he would say that that opportunity is very, very, very small. Mr Van Bommel has always said exactly the opposite. And I think that's a trick for voters. Then you scare people of something that's just not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u143	The current insert is the resultant of a 320-day process. I would like to make that clear to Mr Verhoeven. Ours never had to be there for the process of digging. It should never have been there. The question put to the electorate was very clear. The only appropriate answer was a withdrawal law. Apart from all text exegesis, that remains the position of the PVV. That repeal law should have been issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u144	I agree with Mr Beertema. That repeal law should have been issued. It didn't come. That's when the PVV stopped thinking. And at D66, the mind went on, looking at the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u145	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Maij. She shakes no. Then I will go to Mr Grashoff; neither will I. I call Mr Ten Broeke. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u146	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because the summary has already been given. Many have called the legally binding declaration, which forces us to say yes or no to the association agreement once again. In fact, you should call it an "explanation" because it provides a binding explanation for 28 EU Member States, for 28 governments responsible for 510 million citizens, because 2.5 million Dutch citizens have said that they do not want the Treaty in this way. I can only repeat it to Mr Verhoeven: in the campaign we have been dealing with an incredible amount of fables. There's a fantastic fable newspaper distributed by various parties, which I won't quote again. This is precisely the subject of the legally binding declaration, but today those who tried to explain the treaty in vain in the campaign must suddenly hear that it is not about the fears, but about what exactly is in the treaty. I wish I'd heard that during the campaign. If only I had heard during the campaign from PVV, SP or Party for the Animals that there can be no membership from this treaty. Now 27 other Member States have to say that. That is the fundamental difference. That is why we say yes to the association agreement, as we have already done, but we do think that it is an enrichment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u147	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to give you an overview of the reactions of the other parliaments, so that colleagues also have it. It can be added to the Acts, making it a public document and showing what overview I have been given. A number of people asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u148	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u149	I see a number of people laughing very hard, but it's very serious if you hold a referendum first and then say: we don't do it. Remember what we started in April. Before the referendum, we asked what we would do if it turned out to be a no and got three times no answer. The day after the referendum, the Prime Minister said in a debate here: everything goes on, even if the Netherlands does not participate. Turns out that didn't add up a little bit later. He then called President Poroshenko of Ukraine. President Poroshenko has not cooperated in this solution. He withdrew from the talks. 28 EU Member States remained. They could do nothing but produce an empty insert, so that this could be used here as an excuse to go from "against" to "for," as a number of parties did. This is how the referendum was handled. If you wait long enough, it seems as if such an insert was intended, but the insert was nobody's intention the day after the referendum. The colleagues in the Chamber know that damn well. It would adorn them if they told them it wasn't the optimal solution, and that it wasn't actually a solution. In the second term, too, a number of Members are saying that I think: there is no prospect of membership, but that is not in the statement. It merely states that the treaty itself is not a commitment. A number of other countries, such as Poland, do indeed explain it as a prospect of membership. That means we're all keeping different images in the air. That is no way to deal with a referendum. I have one more question to answer. Is it generally necessary to correct an impression that politicians give during an election campaign, for example by making certain promises and saying certain things, with a statement? I would like that question answered by the Prime Minister. I would also like to thank him very much for the answers to the MH17 questions. It is of the utmost importance that cooperation with Ukraine and the other members of the JIT continue to work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u150	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u151	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the last question from the CDA, from Mr Omtzigt, I would like to look at what he wants. The cabinet never said it would just take over the results. That was never the cabinet's point of view. We've always said we'll weigh the results. The literal text I used on April 6 in the evening in an initial reaction was: we cannot simply ratify now. I do not know what Mr Omtzigt is looking for, but that would be my response to his question. Mr Beertema has asked a lot of questions which are not related to the association agreement, but which we have had a great deal of difficulty in the debate on the state of the Union and on the last European Council. I therefore do not think that I should go into this further now. I don't think that's appropriate either. I can say that I have a great deal of commitment from Mr Beertema to the European Union. Apparently, he disagrees with his own leader who still wants to get out of the European Union, who wants a nextit. I can say here that the PVV's position on a postit of such great damage to the Netherlands, both economically and, above all, for our security and stability, is that he will confront me on this at any given time, fighting against such a nexit. Then I come to Mr Van Bommel's motion. I really must discourage them because what is being asked is not necessary. Ukraine does not need to make a legal commitment to the decision of the Heads of State or Government, for all the reasons I mentioned in the first term. With some emphasis, I would like to discourage this motion. It does not add anything, no matter how sorry I am that I cannot embrace the last motion tabled by Mr Van Bommel in a debate with me, but it really is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u152	Let me get this straight: do I hear the Prime Minister now say that my party leader would like a nexit and I wouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u153	Yes, I get that impression because you speak so enthusiastically of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u154	Come on, you're talking about the state of the Union. I'm not saying anything but that. That's what we keep arguing about. You're starting to forget things, aren't you? I don't think that's the idea. That nextit's gonna be there sooner or later. The frexit's coming. It's gonna happen. I've been talking about writing on the wall that you don't want to see, about you being on the wrong side of history. And then you're gonna stand here and tell me that I wouldn't want a nexit? I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u155	Yeah, I'll listen to that between the lines anyway. I hear Mr Beertema speak with increasing interest on this subject. I see an accent difference with his leader. It is also good that he explains it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u156	That accent difference isn't there and that nextit's gonna be there. Don't worry about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u157	I'll fight it. It is bad for our economy and very bad for our security. The Netherlands is not going to do that. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u158	I had hoped to hear from one of my colleagues or from the Prime Minister which statements of which politicians have exactly been corrected with the insert. My question is also to the Prime Minister or, if there is a false impression, to be corrected afterwards. This Prime Minister gave impressions before the elections about aid to Greece, about mortgage interest relief, about €1,000 back... The list is too long, so you'll probably cut me off, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, all this needs to be corrected with statements. So which politician has said something that needs to be corrected? Has there been one politician here who said that this treaty is giving candidate membership? That is not what the Treaty does, and that explanation is therefore unnecessary. My second question is: is it necessary when wrong impressions are created by politicians, who are later correcting them? If that's the case, I'm curious when that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u159	We have discussed this extensively in previous debates. At that time, I referred to statements made by the President of the European Commission today, but there are also other senior politicians in Europe who have indeed spoken about the prevailing perspective that the association agreement represents in the context of possible future membership ambitions. As far as the Dutch scene is concerned, I have pointed out a great many statements made by politicians dealing with the four or five grievances addressed in the decision of the European Heads of State or Government. If I take that back to one moment then that was the broadcast of Newsuur, at the end of March 2016, the debate between Mr Samsom, then chairman of the PvdA Group, and Mr Roemer, still chairman of the Socialist Party Group. It covered all these elements, at least four out of five, but I even think all five, in detail, and it showed how many people in that debate were trying to extend the context of this association agreement to membership, collective defence, free movement of workers and future financial obligations. I will not point here, but it could have been the Socialist Party. There were many more examples, but I had not seen before that they were so discussed in a 20-minute debate in a news programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u160	I have not yet heard an example of an opportunity where someone has said that this treaty is a candidate for membership. A number of European politicians are still claiming that the prospect is there. That's also not debunked in the insert. The Prime Minister constantly confuses his pronunciation with "it offers a view of" while there isn't. There is quite a difference of opinion in Europe. That didn't take away this inlay. The only person who has not signed is the European Commission, which is also a party to the Convention. But let's leave that aside. I have mentioned a whole list of examples of impressions raised by the Prime Minister during the election campaign. I didn't have a reaction to that. We'll get another entry sheet explaining why all these expectations: that €1,000, that mortgage interest rate deduction, Greece...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u162	Yeah, you know the whole list already. Are we going to get an inlay sheet or an explanation sheet, as the VVD calls it, on which it is stated why all this did not come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u163	I can only repeat what I just said. Especially when it comes to membership, it is quite clear that in the debate both people outside the Netherlands and people in the Netherlands, the explicit suggestion has been raised that this association agreement is a stepping stone to membership. It is not suggested that membership as such would be possible, but that the association agreement would be, as it were, an automatic step towards membership. I think it is good that, where so many have wrongly tried to give that impression, it is perfectly clear with this decision by the European Heads of State or Government. It is not for nothing that I have had to speak out loud, both in the European Council and in my contacts with the Ukrainian President. It is about the importance of precisely this wording. If it were that meaningless, it wouldn't have been so complicated. It's been so complicated, because it does have substance. And Mr Omtzigt knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u164	I am still waiting for the answer to be given to the question of whether the Prime Minister will give us any information or explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u165	That is what I am going to do as soon as Mr Omtzigt gives me an explanation as to why he and his party have been absent in the last five years to get this country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u166	Mr Omtzigt, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u167	Mr. Chairman. I am doing my job as a parliamentarians in controlling this government. As President, I expected you not to take this point seriously. The Prime Minister hasn't kept a promise of his own. The only defence he then has to the opposition is that we would be absent. That's an affront to work. The Prime Minister doesn't have to agree with me. He's not with Mr. Van Bommel either. But I'm asking for an explanation. And that laughing away is really an insult to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u168	The main goal for this cabinet, for my party in this cabinet and for this coalition was to make the Netherlands, which was in a very serious crisis, emerge stronger from the crisis. I think we are one of Europe's fastest growing economies at the moment. We are the most competitive economy in the European Union. Our government debt is falling rapidly, which has dropped to 60% and below. I refer to employment in 2016. The decline in unemployment has been the largest in the last ten years. Consumer and producer confidence is at the highest level in the last five to ten years. We are coming out of the crisis stronger. My only question to Mr Omtzigt would be: where was the CDA in the last five years to help?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u169	I get the impression that the debate is starting to take a different turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u170	I get that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u171	I asked for an explanation on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u172	Yeah, but you guys disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u173	I can refute all these points by saying that Spain and Poland are growing faster than the Netherlands, but I am fine with it. I'm not fighting that statistic. I'd love to, but I asked for an explanation. When it comes to the treaty with Ukraine, the Prime Minister says very clearly: when politicians say a in a campaign when it's b, I am obliged as a politician to correct it. Now there's one person who has a subscription to saying "a" and "b." If he says with a joke that he doesn't have to explain it, I'll ask him when that explanation will be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u174	In order to achieve the main objective of the cabinet, you have to take responsibility and not have a vacation of responsibility, as the CDA has done over the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u175	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u176	I believe that the debate is going more towards the election campaign. That's nice. We can go on about that for a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u177	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u178	...but I think we should do it in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u179	The Prime Minister should also stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-39.u180	We shall be voting on the motion tabled next Thursday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed this debate from the public gallery or via the Internet and the staff.
