ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was big in the newspaper: give baby longer toddler milk to prevent damage. You'll only be a parent of a young child. You want to do well and take in all kinds of advice from the consulting agency, from the Food Centre and from family members. 'Cause, of course, everyone knows what's good for your kid. You already faithfully give those drops of vitamin D every day, for up to 4 years of course, and you spend energy on healthy food. And then you read that you have to give toddler milk, while others say that that is not necessary. And then it turns out on the day that there's a lot to do with the investigation. The children who have been examined are children who have already come to the hospital. So they may not be representative. The study was conducted at a time when the current vitamin D advice was just running. The study also did not investigate whether other interventions, such as giving vitamin D, playing outdoors, breast feeding longer and eating vegetables, are as useful as drinking toddler milk. In the interview later in the newspaper it was stated that the research was sponsored by Nutricia. Food producers doing research isn't that weird. A producer wants to know what works and how he can make his products even better. But in this case, the research has been used to generate publicity for one's own product. Turns out it happens all the time. Research carried out in March 2016 shows that 90% of the studies paid by the food industry have results in favour of the same lender. So science and marketing are mixed up here. I have the following questions. How does the Cabinet feel about people being misled in this way? Does the Cabinet share our conclusion that investigations by food producers should be more transparent? Does the Cabinet also see opportunities to address this issue, for example through greater transparency in the area of research questions? What is the responsibility of the government in this? Does the cabinet see any reason to invest more own resources in genuinely independent research? Of course, I say finally, there is a problem when a child gets too little vitamin D. The consultation office already gives very extensive advice on this. Yet there are still children who get too little vitamin D. Does the cabinet see opportunities to reach parents who do not follow that advice in other ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman talks about a study published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition in which no more, but no less, than that enriched diet can help prevent shortages of iron and vitamin D in young children. Now it is true that we have arranged in the Netherlands that we always ask for advice from the Health Council for nutritional advice, which determines what is best. On this basis, the Food Centre comes up with concrete food advice. The advice is that you should get toddlers to eat as soon as possible according to the five-piece and that a deficiency of vitamin D should be supplemented with tablets or droplets. If there is a shortage of vitamin D, you can supplement it in several ways. But the essence of the Health Council's advice is right: let children get used to that five-year-old disc as soon as possible, so that they eat healthy, and fill it in case of a shortage. So the advice is not: toddler milk is better. In fact, the Health Council is constantly looking at what good advice is about the toddlers. That's what the council is looking at again. At the beginning of 2018, he will again issue an opinion on food standards, including for young children. I would also like to point out that one scientific research is never the only basis for an amended opinion from the Health Council. That really requires more scientific information about need and intake. There is currently no reason to change the existing nutritional advice on the basis of the above-mentioned research. What about transparency? It is good that in scientific research there is complete transparency as to who financed that research and its results. It has also been used in this case. I was just saying that there is nothing wrong with researching whether enriched nutrition has an effect. That's what happened in this case. I very much agree with Mrs Voortman that there should be transparency. It is also asked to what extent these studies can and should influence people's behaviour. It is precisely for this that we have an excellent system in the Netherlands: the Health Council comes to an opinion on the basis of scientific research and then the Food Centre translates it in concrete terms. So the government takes responsibility for this. We see no reason to doubt the expertise and functioning of this system. It's a good thing there's research going on. There is a lot of research going on, but let us stick to the scientific basis of the Health Council and the Food Centre. Once again, the conclusion is that there is no reason to change the opinions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am glad that the Secretary of State also says: this is one investigation and there is certainly no need to change the current advice that you should eat healthyly and get out sufficiently. Those kinds of things are very important and certainly cannot be exchanged for toddler milk. But this is about the translation of that investigation. Of course, no one's going to read that scientific research. People read the paper and hear it on the radio. The problem lies in the way the translation of the research comes out, in the mix-up of marketing and science. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about it? I also asked for greater transparency. For example, it should be ensured that the research questions posed are real research questions and that their purpose is clear. It is also necessary to assess whether the investigation is sound. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of that? I have another point. There are examples of research carried out by producers that have helped us a great deal. Actually, it's really weird that that's necessary. Actually, it would be better if there were real independent research. My question was, therefore, whether, in this case, the cabinet would also see reason to invest more own resources in genuinely independent research in the field of food.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	On this last point, I do not have the impression that there is too little scientific research into everything, especially in the field of food. There are many studies available in this field. That is one of the reasons why we ask the Health Council periodically to take stock of the current state of science. I do not have the impression that in this case the research question was unclear. I repeat what is also stated in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition about whether enriched food can help prevent iron and vitamin D shortages. The answer is: yes, it can, because if there is vitamin D or iron in the foods, that will of course help. Another question is whether this should have an impact on the behaviour and upbringing of children by parents. The answer to that is: no, because it requires much more research and we await the advice of the Health Council. So I do not have the impression that there is a lack of transparency, but I do have the impression that perhaps too soon a conclusion has been drawn in the newspaper, namely that this study should lead to an adaptation of the dietary advice. The latter is not the case, and I would like to say this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	A more relevant question would have been whether enriched nutrition is the best. That would have been a good question, so you could really put it side by side. That would have helped people a lot more. The Secretary of State also says that he does not have the impression that there is too little research, but my question was whether there is enough independent research. And then I'm referring to research that hasn't been carried out from a different interest than the importance of what's good for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	A great deal of research is being carried out in the Netherlands, sometimes fundamentally scientifically due to the budgets that academic hospitals have, sometimes financed by any industry. It is therefore important that all these investigations, whether they are independent or funded by others, be weighed in a scientific way. That's exactly what the Health Council is for. I therefore believe that this system in the Netherlands ensures that we do not base ourselves simply on one research, funded by anyone, but that we look at what is going on in science and that we come up with good advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven to put a short question on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	The SP has done research among scientists. There was one big question: what about the independence of science? A lot of people fear for science on demand. That is also the question on this issue. Nutricia has a very bad name. We all know the miracle cure Souvenaid, the magic potion against dementia. None of that turned out to be true. Now we see that three academic hospitals are involved in an investigation, in which the researchers lend themselves as a sign of Nutricia. The Secretary of State may say it was just a force article, but he has also heard what the researchers on the radio and so on have stated. They made a plea there for that toddler milk drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	How do we ensure that this does not happen anymore? And shouldn't there be some kind of new code of integrity for doctors, professors and scientists in the medical profession, so that they don't act as a sign for the industry with its commercial interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Now that Mr Van Gerven says that the SP has done research, that immediately raises the question of how independent that research was. But I agree with Mr Van Gerven that it should always be transparent who the sponsors or funders of the research are. He knows that it is clear in the scientific world that someone in a scientific article also expresses those interests. I would not go so far as to say in advance that Dutch scientists, funded by anyone, would therefore be used as a sign of anyone. I'm not suspicious that this is true either. If transparency is given, we can all assess the scientific nature of the research and the interests behind it. I have no reason to assume beforehand that Dutch scientists will be used as a sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	I give permission to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	I would like to make a personal statement that a Secretary of State dares question here an investigation of the SP that he himself has not read. A number of scientists who touch on an important point about the independence of science and scientific integrity, that the threat of science on demand is a real danger...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	The fact that this Secretary of State does so lately doesn't suit a Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	You've made your point. Mrs Keijzer, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	I would almost say: joke, Mr Sonnenberg. I have the following question to the Secretary of State. Wouldn't it be an idea to take a bit of a healthy sense of farming in this kind of debate, to breathe through, to remain calm and to see how we all grew up before we have a debate here on toddler milk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have to take the question into account, but I believe that Mrs Keijzer has a point. The Health Council's opinion says that when it comes to healthy nutrition, you should try to get toddlers to eat with a normal meal as soon as possible, which should be based on the five drive from the Food Center. The sooner you reach that point, the better. Let us not fill all kinds of gaps with all kinds of tricks, but keep acting normal. If that is what Mrs Keijzer means, I agree with her very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	The importance of healthy food cannot be stressed enough, but Mr Van Gerven raises a point that the Secretary of State does not answer properly, namely that much of the research done by food producers is in favour of the same food producer: we at Nutricia advise Nutricia. That's bad and misleading. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	I tried to indicate that scientific research can be funded in many different ways; by independent means, such as the academic component of academic hospitals and sometimes by the pharmaceutical industry or the food industry. They're all doing scientific research. Then the following points are important. The first is that it is completely transparent who finances it. The second is not to assume in advance that scientists lend themselves to conclusions that they themselves cannot support. When it comes to such sensitive matters as good nutrition, it is a good thing that we have the Health Council, which can weigh up all these investigations and eventually get a scientific advice to us and to the Food Centre on how parents can deal with them. That seems to me to be a very good system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you.
