ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	It's Mrs. Helder's birthday today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. If I don't get my way today, I don't remember! If you turn off the microphone, I'll tell you how old I've gotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The oral questions, because they are of course very important. On 18 May last we received the report "The local significance of base teams." Last Saturday, a local agent in the media sketched an image of the practice, a story that I unfortunately hear on work visits as well. That picture is nothing like the cheerful stories that are always being brought out about the crime that would fall. Crime is not falling, but is not being addressed and citizens hardly report it. Only for so-called high impact crimes, such as theft, street robbery and robbery, sufficient capacity is released, but victims of other forms of crime, such as cybercrime and internet fraud, find no answer. Because of the structural shortage of detectives, criminals are free to go. The worst thing about all this is that these points have been known for a long time, but apparently they still cannot be addressed. Not only the cops, but also drivers and citizens are screwed, and criminals are the laughing third parties. I therefore have two questions for the Minister. Firstly, it is more than once stated that agents should do their story anonymously, because otherwise they can count on internal measures. How is the Minister going to promote that agents continue to raise points of improvement? My second question comes with a brief introduction. There are also the other well-known points raised by the district agent in her account. It is still not possible to put camera images of civilians on the Internet. There aren't enough service cars. There is no time and there is no capacity to deal with the organizations behind the simple drug dealers or thieves. Cops disappear from the neighborhoods by closing desks. There are too few people and too few service cars for too large areas of work. My second question is therefore: what is the Minister going to do to put an end to this at last?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Ms Helder commented on the interview given by a district agent to De Telegraaf, which was in line with a number of findings from the report "The local significance of base teams," which I recently sent to the Chamber. That report reveals a number of images. One of these is the image, which the district agent also indicates, that the district teams are working with a huge amount of effort, but that often there is a feeling that one cannot do enough to deal with organised crime. In addition, the report indicates that both mayors, local authorities and citizens who are asked about their experiences with the police give ample scope, because their experiences with the police are fortunately good. Of course they also have a number of wishes, they also generally want more capacity, but both mayors and the public find the service adequate in practice. However, the signal that emerges from both the research and the interview to which Mrs Helder refers must be taken seriously. I also put an interview to which Mrs Helder did not refer, but which was also about this investigation: the interview with the team chief in Sneek, Mrs Marja Doosje. She is the team chief of one of the research teams that led to that partly critical, partly positive report. In that interview she indicates that a lot has changed and improved in her team in Sneek since the investigation took place. She says: yes, there are a lot of complicated tasks, but you should not linger in the research, which is of course from some time ago, because it takes some time; we have been able to take really great steps. I recognize that; like Mrs Helder, I like to go out with cops. And yes, there are things that aren't going well, but there are also things that are wonderfully arranged. What certainly needs to be improved is, for example, the exchange of information between detectives and police officers on the streets, one of the crucial points in tackling organised crime. In general, that task is not with the district teams that have an alerting function "T" but with the district detectives or with the national detectives. It is very important that information can be properly linked. That is actually also an ICT issue. This is one of the challenges ahead. Mrs Helder raises the classic demand for capacity. That's kind of the good old man in my debates here in the Chamber. He was also mentioned in the previous question. I continue to point out that my budget has been made available. I am grateful for the extra money, including for the police and the fight against organised crime. But I'm committed to that budget. Those who want more money for the police have my warm sympathy, but I think they should report to Mr Tjeenk Willink at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	Let me put it this way: I have, of course, read the report well. It contained the following quote from one of the people questioned: if I were a criminal, I'd set up the base team like that. So I do not agree with that spacious enough. You can stand up to that, Minister, but I'm not gonna get bogged down in a well-nuke game. I'll do that when it comes to extra money. That's what I keep saying. Half a billion, 500 million went down, and 250 million came back. So there is no extra money. But I didn't ask for money. I'll take the Minister's words as a lead. He says neighborhood teams have a signaling function. That's absolutely true. And then they can't do anything with it, because they can't hear the detectives. If they find a hearing, the detectives can't go through with the detectives, because then the investigation is too big for the base team and too small for the regional detectives. In short, the neighborhood agents are just screwed. They get frustrated and then stop. And then we'll be back in three years with the good old "where did our neighborhood agents go?" In short: I really do not think this is an answer from the Minister. This has got to be much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	It would help if the question was what was more concrete. I have indicated that a number of things need to be improved, but also that, for example, a colleague of the interviewed agent, in this case the team chief in Sneek, says that a number of things have improved since the investigation. I have also indicated that I also see concrete steps that need and can be taken, for example the improvement of the sharing of information between district teams and agents. In that sense, I could say that Mrs Helder and I do not disagree. Parties who find hundreds of millions and manage to cover them properly always have my warm sympathy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	I will ask two specific questions. I don't think police stations should be closed anymore. Can the Minister at least put a stop to it? Then the cops do stay in the neighborhood and there is also a point where suspects can be brought. That saves driving around with a service car that is then no longer available. Where is the vehicle plan the Chamber was promised? There's been a lot of complaints about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would find it very unwise to decide centrally in The Hague that the Chief Constable, who has to weigh every time how he uses his people and resources, should not close an office anywhere. He can have very good reasons to say: in this place I prefer to save some money for bricks, because I prefer to bet that money for good people. I therefore consider Mrs Helder's first request to be very unwise. If it has been promised that the Chamber will have a vehicle plan, the Chamber will have it. You'll forgive me if I don't remember when that plan comes, but I have no reason not to send it as soon as it comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	We are now five years after the introduction of the national police. In the Chamber, we discussed most of the functions of the district teams and the district agents, particularly in the street or in the district where it has to be done. This has always proved to be the most vulnerable point. There are more points, but this remains the most vulnerable point when it comes to the introduction of national police. It happened too fast. This obviously has to do with money, but also with the vision that was laid down at the time. The report's here now. I would like a comprehensive response from the cabinet instead of discussing it now only in Question Time. Will we now also specifically evaluate how the function of the district agents and the district teams can be organised more efficiently, less bureaucratic and smarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Chamber receives the requested comprehensive response to the report. The evaluation of the district teams, and wider of the national police, has also been promised to the Chamber. That's what Mr. Kuik is working on with a team. I say from the outset that this evaluation is coming to this Chamber this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	For the report, I say that Mr Kikkie is not related to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	When we talked here about the national police, everyone in the Chamber said there weren't enough district agents. But the Ministry said that's not true. When the national police were set up, all police officers said there were too few district agents. But the Ministry said that's not true. Now when we talk to mayors and citizens, everyone says there's not enough cops in the neighborhood. But the Ministry says that's not true. What's wrong with the Ministry? Are the windows closed? Is the door closed? How is it that the Ministry doesn't want to see what everyone sees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Van Raak raised the question of capacity demand in an inimitable manner. He says he wants more cops. He's not the only one with that wish, but he doesn't deliver butter to the fish either. Cops cost money. Money can be spent once. Money that goes to cops can't go to teachers, not to roads and not to benefits. Making that choice is at the heart of the political business. You can do that traditionally with a formation. That's about the time. It can also be done at a budget moment. Once again, I am grateful to the Chamber for the extra money that has been made available. Here by shouting a microphone that more cops need to come, however, does not help if you don't deliver money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Van Raak, no follow-up question, but you may correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	For the Acts: I tabled a motion on 30 March to make an additional 200 million available to the police immediately, but it was remarkable that the Minister did not want that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	A motion is paper, a motion isn't money. I have to say, therefore, that Mr Van Raak has not provided any money, just words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you.
