ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. (b) the amendment of various educational laws relating to the pseudonymisation of the personal number of an educational participant for the provision of educational facilities and guidance for participants in education, Section 34741. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I am the first speaker to speak on behalf of GroenLinks, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks shares the great importance of privacy in education. As far as we are concerned, students' data should not be shared. This proposal on pseudonomisation can play an important role in this, but rapid developments in the field of digitalisation also make it a complex subject. Because how do we prevent the government from always falling behind? Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with this law today because the proposals that are being made require a legal basis. In the basics, I realise that I am going through a rather short period of time, it is about the proposal making it possible to create a pseudonym based on a student's personal number, so that educational institutions and other parties can communicate with each other about that student without exchanging the student's data. This is, for example, helpful in the purchase of digital learning tools. Because this plan helps students, parents, educational institutions and publishers, GroenLinks thinks it is a good plan in the basics. However, we are wondering whether privacy is now guaranteed at 100%. We have been informed that a name is currently being stored in publishing houses of digital teaching materials. ICTs have informed us that the new proposal can also make it technically difficult to remedy the fact that the name is being saved. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Another point is that this proposal is based on self-regulation. Eventually, schools and other parties will have to take care of this themselves. What if this doesn't happen right everywhere? I would also like a response from the Secretary of State to that. In addition, there may be other methods that provide a solution when it comes to the privacy of students. For example, in the internet consultation with this bill we have read some interesting suggestions. The Ministry responded that it opted for this system rather than the other methods, because according to the Secretary of State it was better proven in practice. Another reason is that this system needs to be introduced quickly. I would ask the Secretary of State if he could give us a little more text and explanation on this, because we are curious about concrete differences in quality. GroenLinks also considers it important that steps be taken quickly to ensure privacy, but this should not, of course, be at the expense of quality. Which brings us to the evaluation. An evaluation clause has been introduced in the law to see whether the law and the chosen approach to self-regulation are working adequately in practice. We also consider this important, of course, but we would like to evaluate a number of other things, for example whether the alternatives, which could not be introduced partly because of the pressure on time, will perhaps work better in a few years' time. Perhaps by then there will be new techniques that can play a role. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Digital development is fast and cannot always be predicted. The evaluation provision provides for an evaluation to be carried out within five years of the entry into force of this law. GroenLinks wonders whether five years is not too long. Isn't there a risk that we'll be chasing digital facts later? This is a risk that we cannot take as far as we are concerned on this important issue. Is it perhaps possible to obtain an earlier state of play on the implementation of this law? Mr. Chairman. One final point. In recent weeks there has been a lot of uncertainty among pupils and parents about digital teaching material that came in late or where a number of things went wrong with orders. According to the Secretary of State, this bill makes it easier to work with digital teaching material, but communication is of course essential. How will the Secretary of State inform the Chamber but also schools, pupils, parents and publishers of the latest developments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. In general terms, I can be quite brief today, especially for my part. I can see you looking surprised, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep my promise. The reason for this law is logical and the direction of resolution is actually the same. The increasing digitalization of education, which you can find all kinds of things, but which you see everywhere as a fact, forces us to think about tomorrow's education. We do so regularly, but also about how we deal with the privacy of students and how we prevent personal data from ending up with commercial parties that don't have to have that data at all. Partly for this reason, this proposal seeks to find a solution. Now everyone is partly doing their own thing with their own system, which naturally leads to problems and to incompatible systems, with the consequence, for example, that teaching material ends up too late for pupils. Although the irony is now that we get complaints from parents that their child still doesn't have the digital teaching material on the tablet, because that is not yet available. When I think back to my own high school period, the logistical challenge of a large book package, including electives, that you had to get back on your bike and bring home, seems to me to be a bigger challenge than the digital delivery of a book. Anyway, that too seems to be complicated. But the more data eventually hangs on a so-called chain ID, the greater the consequences when something goes wrong. We have a few questions about that. Because it's quite an operation. Although the chain ID is less traceable to one person than is often the case at present, it is not entirely unconductable. After this law, can we guarantee with certainty that no personal data will end up with commercial parties that have nothing to do with it? If not, can we at least assume that the SP proposal made in the past by my colleague Mr Van Dijk, namely that commercial parties are still destroying those data when they are not allowed to join it? In general, do we sometimes not enjoy pseudonymisation too quickly, while anonymisation, making data completely unconductable to a person, can ultimately be a better option from a privacy point of view? Then finalizing it for my party, the SP, actually main point. Self-regulation and autonomy of school administration are now the main reasons for not requiring the transition to a new system. However, we believe that the freedom of education and the autonomy of school administration should never lead to the possibility of a proper handling of students' privacy. Of course, there are legal limitations and, of course, every school will have to abide by them. But what if that doesn't happen? Then five years of waiting with intervention is relatively long. Moreover, do we not serve schools if we impose on them the way in which they are to deal with this rather than lay down a derogation from the chosen system of participation? For a Member of Parliament, too, this is a rather tough matter. I can imagine that the participation of a school is reasonably over-asked when it, if a school does not participate in the chosen system, has to decide what its privacy rules should look like and exactly what the chosen exception for a school should mean. I really think that we can possibly overrule the question of participation. Moreover, I do not think that most parents who participate in a school are going to do so because of their views on privacy within education. There is therefore a concern for us. We really doubt whether both the school and the student as well as the participation is served by the freedom to deviate and whether we do not better serve education by simply prescribing a standard, because autonomy for the teaching process for the teacher is excellent, but this is about a practical and legal interpretation of a peripheral condition. I think we could take that out of their hands. I'd like a reaction to that. This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Kwint. I now turn to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Not often is it about the privacy of students and students in our Education Committee. This is the perfect opportunity to talk about it. In the youngest generations, all the data have been digitally processed from the start of their lives and therefore the privacy of these children has come into the tribulation. At D66, privacy and digital security are paramount, as it is essential to prevent the misuse of the personal data of this vulnerable group. Especially in education, it is unclear where the boundary lies between the involvement of the parents and the privacy of the child. I remember when I got a 4 for French. I didn't say that at home. Next time I got a 6 and then I said, "I got two sixes." That's how it used to be. Well, that's impossible these days. The parents know what they got before the kids did. Take my own granddaughter of 3. You can follow what she's doing all day. It's awfully nice, but also terrible, I'm just saying. And what does the government do? Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	Back in the day, you could just turn a 3 on a report into an 8. That's all over, officially over. You're gonna hear something, Mr. President! Although pseudonymisation of student data is a step in the right direction, a broader debate is needed on the opportunities and risks of digitalisation in the education and privacy of pupils. Is the Secretary of State prepared to identify, in advance of the general consultation that we are about to have, the use of digital learning resources and the opportunities and risks associated with them? Mr. Chairman. Digitisation in education, however, does not only pose disadvantages and threats. It also offers many innovative opportunities. For example, a teacher can easily and quickly see the progress of a student, it reduces the teacher's workload and makes it possible to offer tailor-made work to students. The schools are responsible for handling those personal data carefully. Can the Secretary of State explain whether schools currently receive sufficient support in developing digital security and ensuring privacy? In addition, D66 wonders whether pseudonymizing data is user-friendly. Or should each primary school engage an ICT expert? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State stresses the desirability of self-regulation by schools so that there is room for innovation. For example, schools can decide for themselves what additional student data they exchange with private parties. However, this is where a dilemma arises. On the one hand additional student data in addition to the pseudonym, such as the first name, the class number and the gender, provide ease of use for the teacher. On the other hand, this does not involve data minimising and the student is still traceable despite the pseudonym. How does the Secretary of State deal with this dilemma? Where is the border around the provision of additional personal data to private parties in a pseudonym? Mr. Chairman. If schools are to be given space, it is essential that supervision is carried out so that students' digital security and privacy are not compromised. Three bodies are mentioned as supervisors: the Dutch Data Protection Authority, the Education Inspectorate and the Edu-K platform. For D66, however, the powers of these bodies remain too vague. Is the handling of personal data already included in the investigation of the inspection? How does the Authority monitor Personal Data? Does it have sufficient capacity to control all educational institutions and private parties? Can the Secretary of State explain who is ultimately responsible for monitoring the protection of student data? Mr. Chairman. It has been said before by Mrs Westerveld, and I also see that this law will not be evaluated for another five years, while technological developments and digitalisation in education are going at a rapid pace. Why was a five-year deadline chosen? Is an evaluation not too late after five years, also because the State Secretary states in the evaluation to investigate whether schools respect the Personal Data Protection Act sufficiently? D66 considers it important to monitor this legislative amendment earlier. I am considering tabling an amendment on this, but I would first like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen, also for sharing personal information with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	I can go on for another minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	I give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The Chamber has often talked about privacy violations in education. The CDA therefore endorses the importance of using a pseudonym. We support the use of a chain ID in the exchange of information between schools and between schools and other parties. The questions we have now focus mainly on the feasibility of this somewhat ambitious ICT project. Because we know that the combination of government and ICT is not always flawless, we have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Are all schools now fully equipped to meet the objectives of this law, or are there still any institutional problems to be expected according to the Secretary of State? Can students, for example in the MBO, who do not order their teaching materials digitally get access to digital learning tools or tests? Are all publishers able to process the digital personal number in the same way? Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about this bill because a later treatment according to the Ministry would lead to a year's delay. My question is whether the Secretary of State can guarantee us that the deadline for introducing pseudonyms and chain IDs is now wide enough to be used with care. I come to the evaluation assessment. The evaluation shall take place after five years. Other speakers also spoke about this. My question to the Secretary of State is now mainly whether he can indicate how the introduction is being monitored. There is, after all, a great burden on the shoulders of Kennisnet for the realization of the number provision. Will the Secretary of State also evaluate the role of Knowledge Network? Can the Secretary of State still draw the emergency brake or phase the introduction if it would appear that parties are not able to make this change without any problems? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rog. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Schools are increasingly using digital learning tools. That is a good thing. They make education more personalized, modern and interactive. When students last explained to me during a work visit how they made a 3D presentation with an app themselves, I realized as a thirtieth that I could use a few more courses not to be competed by this upcoming digital generation in ten years' time. But that aside, because we are not here today to talk about the benefits of digitalisation, but to do something about the risks. In practice, schools and suppliers of teaching materials appear to exchange more student data than necessary. This is not only inefficient, but also sensitive to privacy. This bill allows schools to create a pseudonym based on their student's personal number, ultimately reducing the number of student data available from suppliers. That is a good thing. The VVD is therefore in favour of the purpose of this bill. However, the VVD would like to ask a few more questions about the functioning of this bill and about the safety of digital learning data in a broader sense. My first question concerns the seemingly non-binding nature of the legislative proposal. A number of previous speakers have already mentioned this. The bill offers schools the opportunity to work with a pseudonym, but it is not a legal obligation. The Secretary of State motivates this free choice in the interest of self-regulation. Does the Secretary of State realise enough that this may be at odds with the sometimes limited awareness of digital security in some schools? In fact, the Secretary of State also writes that, as he calls it, job growth differs from schools in this area. Yet he thinks that almost all schools will eventually use the pseudonym. As an additional guarantee, the law includes an evaluation after five years. Now it seems to me to be a smart assessment and, in principle, I am not opposed to self-regulation, but, in the interests of all pupils, there must be a stick behind the door in schools that do not work or do not work sufficiently with digital security. My question, which has already been asked today, is therefore whether the evaluation period is not too long. Digitisation is progressing. In the meantime, we do not know whether student data may not be sufficiently anonymized. Is the Secretary of State prepared to evaluate earlier or at least periodically monitor progress? I am considering a motion on this point. My second question concerns scope. The bill deals with pseudonymisation of student data in exchange by schools with suppliers of teaching materials. But there are other parties in this country that exchange student data with third parties, while they may also be privacy sensitive. For example, during the last period we saw two worrying news from a RTL investigation. Apprenticeship data of 1,900 vulnerable pupils were found to be on the streets in September. This was because some municipalities had not sufficiently anonymised the data in the tender for the carriage of pupils. Yesterday, a further 4,100 pupils were found to have wrongly disclosed the data. For example, one student read on the internet that there is PTSS and anger attacks and another student read the home address. According to the VVD, that's unacceptable. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? The Dutch Data Protection Authority says that municipalities should have anonymized this data. In practice, however, some municipalities do not succeed in doing so. In the answers to my parliamentary questions about this event, the Secretary of State indicated that municipalities have an important own responsibility to comply with the Personal Data Protection Act and that, in my own words, the Cabinet is prepared to point them out again. As a result of yesterday's shocking news, the VVD expects more action from the cabinet. Why is there not also a standard for the exchange of apprenticeship data by municipalities? Like municipalities, schools themselves are responsible, but we still make the choice in schools for a covenant, standards and the bill that we are discussing here today. Schools don't have to invent the wheel all by themselves. Let's do the same for municipalities. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Is he willing to make it possible to anonymize and secure apprenticeship data even for municipalities through a standard? Is the Secretary of State prepared, together with his colleague Plasterk and the VNG, to ensure that there is a municipal covenant for this? My group is considering a motion on this matter. My third question is about the accompanying policy associated with this bill, which is further possible to raise awareness about the security of digital data exchange in all schools. The VVD has repeatedly called for standards for digital security, as recommended by the Education Council. A standard for digital security has now been developed; compliments to the Secretary of State. But is his expectation that the standard in schools will be sufficiently known, applied and enforced? After all, it is very important that the standard should be a success not only on paper but also in practice. How is this monitored? Can the Secretary of State indicate the role of the Personal Data Authority in anonymising and securing apprenticeship data? In fact, RTL's investigation into the municipalities this week revealed a problem which, in my view, should have been noted by the Authority. In July 2017, RTL also reported to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, one of the injured parties whose privacy-sensitive information ended up on the internet during the 2013 tender. They didn't get a feedback on that. The municipality concerned was also found not to have been informed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. My question to the Secretary of State today is whether the Cabinet believes that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has sufficient power, not only with regard to municipalities, but also with regard to schools. What is the image of the Secretary of State on this point? Finally, Mr President, I have a question about implementation. The VVD aims to prevent pupils from being undermined in the new school year by a possible lack of access to digital learning resources by the need to adapt systems as a result of this legislative proposal. This year, digital learning tools have proved to be accessible too late in many schools and are still not accessible in some schools. Schools would have been without sufficient teaching material for more than a month. As far as the VVD is concerned, this must not happen again. As a result of the delay this year, I have asked Parliament questions about the digital learning material market and how it has developed. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that a cooperative is in development for joint procurement, so that schools get a better position. In today's debate, I would like to take this opportunity to ask him to comment on this today. How does this cooperative develop? Does it run counter to legislation in its efforts? Furthermore, I would like to discuss the issue of 'a healthy market for digital learning material' at another time, but now I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can promise that this bill will actually contribute to solving problems in terms of the timely delivery of the material. Does this bill therefore also contribute to the timely start of the implementation process and to the extensive testing process, so that all pupils will be able to make timely use of digital learning resources next year? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mrs Becker. This was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr President, thank you. We are talking today about an important issue, namely how we deal with the privacy of students in a world that is becoming more digital, including in schools. We see a lot of work going on with digital learning tools. This has advantages, but also risks. I would like to thank the Chamber for responding to the request for this to be dealt with quickly, because that makes it possible for us, if everything goes well, to start implementation next year. If that had been later, it wouldn't have worked. Of course, we're going to do the implementation carefully. Should we encounter unexpected bumps, we always take that into account, but this means that we can remain on schedule for the time being. That is, when it comes to those improvements, also urgently needed. We saw that again last week. We have also read in the newspaper that there are still schools where students cannot access their digital learning tools, digital books or digital tests. That really needs to be better; I will say something about that later. The increasing digitalisation of education also requires schools to deal with it in a more conscious way and in a more careful way. Where it used to be classic, you had a closet with a lock and at the end of the day you put the student folders in there and turned the key around. I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld that the challenge is always to keep pace with developments. It is, of course, very difficult to stay ahead of the market forever and to always be ahead of developments. We must be careful that schools and we, as legislators, do not go too far behind. In recent years, it has become clear that it can and must be improved. For example, with your Chamber, I noticed that when using digital learning tools, schools and suppliers exchanged more information about students than was necessary. It was also found that the arrangements between schools and suppliers were not sufficiently in place. But we haven't been idle. Education has taken a lot of action. When I look at the PO-Council and the VO-Council and the covenant that has been agreed with suppliers who have drawn up a model agreement on the basis of which schools can now make good agreements with suppliers about the privacy of their students, I see that there is an incredible amount happening from the support sector councils in terms of support. Mr Van Meenen asked whether this support would be sufficient. I see it's starting to get more and more at flight altitude. In addition to the PO Council and the VO Council, we have also developed an accessible approach with the support of Kennisnet that helps schools to keep their information security and privacy in order. A great deal is also being done in the area of awareness. Take, for example, this month, October. That's the annual month of information security and privacy. I am therefore pleased that we will be able to discuss this bill this month. Mr. Chairman. Let me briefly look back at the current problems of access to digital learning resources. At the start of the school year it appeared that thousands of students did not have access to their teaching materials. Many different suppliers are involved in the working of digital learning tools in the classroom. Think of the suppliers of the school information system, the distributors and educational publishing houses. The systems of these parties must be able to communicate well with each other, otherwise they do not know which substance should be used by which pupil. The suppliers made several adjustments to their systems in the summer, but I do not think they have sufficiently tested whether these systems were able to communicate well with each other. This has resulted in thousands of students not having access to their digital teaching material. Now, after an update of our phone, we all suffer from the fact that not all apps work well. Then it is annoying if, for example, Buienradar is out of the blue, but if students are unable to access their books because of this kind of updates, that is of course very annoying for students and schools. I personally found it annoying that in the coverage a bit of the suggestion was raised that all this had to do with this bill and the introduction of pseudonymisation. I thought that was a little crazy 'cause this has to go through the room. We have gone after this and, as it turns out, schools and suppliers have implemented a number of updates that will soon make it possible to work on this bill, but which would otherwise have had to be implemented in order to provide for the security and privacy of students, who should also be in good shape now. I am very pleased that we will soon be able to make a much bigger deal of it with this bill. Then there will be one reliable number for each student. Schools can then use that number in the exchange with their suppliers. This removes an important reason for the current problems, because it is precisely the lack of a reliable pseudonym, a reliable chain ID or a reliable number that contributes to the current problems. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear that this law will not solve all the problems in the digital environment of schools. There will always be incidents, even in the future. I think that's inevitable in the digital world. It is important to solve them as soon as possible. Schools, of course, face many more issues related to digitalisation. That is why I think Mr Van Meenen's suggestion is a very good one. He says, "Look at the opportunities and risks, map them out." We have had the ICT Doorbraakproject during the past cabinet period. We are showing the results before the end of the year. Then you will see that the issues are also broader than just developing a pseudonym. I can give a good overview of the challenge facing education. This can be taken into account in the debates with the, then probably new, cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	It's good to hear the Secretary of State wants to map that out. The answer to my parliamentary questions about the non-time availability of digital learning resources shows that the private parties also want to conduct an independent investigation into the whole issue. Can the Secretary of State indicate when they expect to have completed that? It would be nice if we could get that directly involved in the letter that comes from the cabinet, so that we as a Chamber can have a debate on the whole for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	I want to check that out. In any case, I think it is right that this should be done and completed as soon as possible, also because we may be able to draw lessons from this for the introduction and implementation of the pseudonym that will run from spring onwards. As far as I am concerned, I hope to have the data at my disposal at the end of the year. I'll check it out. Mrs Becker also asked about the purchasing cooperative. I think that this is also something broader than pseudonymisation, but we now see that the question of schools is extremely fragmented. You've got a couple of big players. I am very much in favour of that both in the p.o. if the demand side is more organized in vo and perhaps also in the MBO, so that you can also offer a stronger counterweight to the large suppliers, distributors and publishers in the development of new material or the requirements to be delivered to the quality. So yes, I'm a big supporter of that. Mr Rog asked whether students in the MBO who ordered the teaching materials could now join them. That is not the case everywhere. There are still a number of problems here and there. This has to do with the fact that licences have to be granted: you have to have a license to eventually get to that material. Mr. Chairman. Then this bill. Why is this bill a step forward? To make sure that schools and suppliers are talking about the same student, it is important that the systems have a unique number for each pupil. That is what we call a pseudonym, as I say to Mr Kwint. He asked why we don't anonymize it; that might be even safer and better. If you really anonymize it, on the other hand, you don't know which student logs in. That is relevant if you want to see your book again on the page where you stopped last time, or if you want to take a test that is a little higher than the level you could handle last time. An example of such a unique number is the social service number. In education this is known as the personal number. Because that song is already linked to a lot of other things, you need an alternative to do it safely. And that is, in fact, what we are making possible with this. That is not legally possible now, but we are making it possible for such a number to be created. We also make that technically possible. That is quite an operation, I say to Mr Rog, but it is not a major ICT project in the classic sense of the word. We sometimes see it in the large implementation services; that will involve millions. You have also seen that there is relatively little money involved, because the ICT side of the story is relatively simple. Because it's kind of a converter. You put the personal number in there and you get a chain ID out. This is the end of the public ICT task on that side. What gets complicated is to ensure that all these different sides of schools, distributors and suppliers can work with one and the same number and adapt the systems to that. So the challenge is very much in the coordination. That's what platforms are for. The Edu-K is the platform on which both the demand side and the supply side meet to make good agreements. This all sounds very complicated, but in essence it is just a very careful construction in which we make sure that such a reliable song becomes available. It's not just safer. This will also make things more user-friendly, as I say in the direction of D66. You could call it some kind of digital key chain. Of course, your Chamber has a number of questions about this bill. Firstly, Mr Kwint of the SP has asked, among other things, whether the choice not to make the pseudonym compulsory is a sensible choice. I understand that, too. We have given this a lot of thought. I think that we have chosen carefully not to completely close the use of pseudonym and the additional data and to oblige it to do so. This has to do with the fact that it is ultimately the legal, but also the principle of responsibility of schools to ensure that they deal with student data in a sensible way. It's not some kind of thing that you check out; that's what you have to talk about, with parents and with co-determination councils. The second argument is that, if you did force it, you'd get the crazy situation that actually makes it a need for correctness. Your Chamber has recently called on me to look out for new requirements because there are already so many obligations in education. Where schools now have a relationship with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which monitors the safe handling of personal data and maintains them, you will be given a double supervisory role if you make it mandatory, because this makes it a valid requirement and the inspection should pay double attention to that. So I think it's important for purity in our order that we leave that with the authority that's about it. This is well regulated in the legislation on the protection of personal data. Then let's have my expectation of how it's gonna go on in practice. I think that de facto a lot of schools are going to work with this for a number of reasons. For starters, it's just agreed in a covenant that they're gonna work on this. Secondly, the Personal Data Authority will point towards schools: there is such a pseudonym now, and that is a very safe way to do it; you don't really have a good story if you do it in another way, unless you have thought very carefully about it, which is very good to reason and has agreed with parents; then perhaps we can make an adjustment to that. So the relapse option is that pseudonym. I think that in practice the pseudonym will be de facto the standard. Mr. Chairman. What about the Dutch Data Protection Authority? When's he gonna intervene? What about the capacity? Every supervisor always has a limited supervisory capacity, as I say to Mr Kwint, but also a little over his shoulder to Mrs Becker. There are choices to be made. That goes with the Dutch Data Protection Authority signal- and risk-oriented, so if there is something going on, if a parent or someone else calls the bell or if there is a signal in the newspaper, that is when the Dutch Data Protection Authority steps off. She is not a toothless tiger, because she can impose heavy fines on data leaks and careless handling of personal data. That's what's going on in schools. I see people are trying to interrupt, but maybe I can say something, and then I finished the round. We see that enlargement is needed. My colleague from V and J recently agreed to increase the contribution to the Dutch Data Protection Authority by some 7 million extra a year to give a little more air in capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	A little back, to the question of whether it should be compulsory. I understand the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State why it would not be appropriate, even in the context of supervision, to shape it in this way. I would like him to give some thought to the issue of participation, because I really think that in the schools that do not choose to do so, you can easily question participation by burdening them with this kind of complex considerations, issues and alternatives to preventing privacy violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's complicated stuff. That's why, I think, it's a good thing there's a pseudonym later. When schools say they want to keep things simple, they'll have a handy tool for that. At the same time, I also consider awareness of this issue to be important. How do you deal with personal data, not only in data traffic with digital suppliers of keys and books, but also at the school itself? What do you save at the school itself? What do you keep track of? What data do you ask the parents as a school? What do you have in the old, conventional way on paper at school, so to speak? I think it is important that this conversation be held at school, including with the participation council. Schools will therefore also have to do something about the awareness of parents of the risks involved, the way in which they are handled and how they can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Of course, I fully agree on the main points, but this is not about how a school or parents deal with the privacy of students. This is specifically about how to guarantee anonymity for access to teaching materials and tests from a student number or a citizen service number. Of course we both hope that as many schools as possible will use the pseudonym, but it is very much applied. Because of the noises I sometimes hear from participation, I do worry about those poor parents in the participation of schools that decide something else. Does the Secretary of State understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	I fully understand that, but at the same time we should not underestimate the participation councils. They often have to do with a lot of complicated issues. It is not easy to see through a budget and it is not easy to see through a sensible multi-annual financial policy. If you're an employer and you have people on your payroll, it's complicated because of all the legal aspects. So I agree with you that it can be complicated and that you may want to deviate from the standard, but I would almost say that we need to do more about the professionalisation and the good level of support of, for example, teacher and parent education in the participation councils rather than removing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	I just wanted to touch on the issue of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In the Netherlands, we have opted for a system of self-regulation in which municipalities and schools themselves are responsible for compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. It is then important that there is indeed an authority to monitor compliance. I'm glad the Secretary of State says that authority's gonna get reinforcements, too. But at the same time I hear him say: the authority does of course work on the basis of signals, for example a message in the newspaper or a message from parents. It seems very difficult for parents to see in good time that something is not right just in the area of digital security. We have gone from 1,900 students to 4,100 vulnerable students whose data have been on the Internet for years without the authority seeing it. This raises the question of whether they should not be actively enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'd be happy to check how the AP deals with this particular case. My impression is that they are sharp and take action on these kinds of signals. What they do very much, and I am actually in favour of that, is very active briefing. Here, too, prevention is better than repair or maintenance. In any case, they are going to go to municipalities, but they are going to tell schools how to fulfil their responsibilities in a good way. So, yeah, they have to have enough capacity to bite through if that's really necessary. But I also want them to do some things on that front and I actually have a good impression of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	Good to hear the Secretary of State wants to check what went wrong in this case. It would be nice if the Chamber could also be informed about this. Furthermore, I await the answer that he will give shortly to the question whether we can also do something with standards in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	A number of Members asked: fun this, but of course developments are going very quickly and when are we going to look back on that? That assessment is at five years, but we need to know sooner if this is working and if we can perhaps learn intermediate lessons. What is the role of Knowledge Network?, so early Mr. Rog. Mr Kwint asked whether you should not also look at new technological developments. You're using something now, but there might be a better alternative in a few years. Perhaps I, President, may make a commitment to the Chamber that we are not going to wait for the formal review of the law, which of course you should do when things run for a while. I will inform the Chamber annually about the state of play and how the roll-out is taking place, so that we can discuss it every year. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint had a question about better technologies. This was mentioned in the written reply. We have deliberately chosen a system that meets all national and international requirements, but which we also know is a reliable system. In other words, it is proven technology, which can also be well introduced into suppliers' systems. Since this can generate a good and safe variant of the song, we have lost our sight of this. It could have been done in a different way, but then you're going to work more with innovative technologies, which only brings new risks. Are they sufficiently in line with all these other suppliers? Because we want this to go well, we did not choose it. But this is solid and it has proven itself elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Becker asked the question about student transport. Of course, I got that, too. It's not the first time this has happened. I also find it unacceptable for municipalities to deal with this kind of thing carelessly when awarding student transport contracts. I suspect that a pseudonym, with which we are now working in communication between schools and suppliers, will not be helpful in the field of student transport. If you buy that, a taxi or bus company will want to know, for example, where children live. So you're gonna need a little more data. However, I would like to see with the VNG and schools whether we can sit down at the table to set some sort of standard and also look at what is possible for this transport around data minimization. This means that we give as much as we need, so that you can make a good tender, but only strictly necessary. I think better agreements can be made about that and I'll take that. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the introduction. It is often the easiest part of the operation to establish the law. The introduction must be careful. First of all, I would like to thank you once again for the timely entry into force of the law, which allows schools and suppliers to carefully test the new method of working. There are a lot of suppliers and schools involved; that makes it extra important. Problems such as those we have seen in the classroom over the past year, in which we were not, by the way, involved, do show that it is a fragile thing. The PO-Council, the VO-Council and the suppliers have specifically launched a programme for this purpose which ensures a careful introduction of the pseudonym among suppliers. They have also drawn up a joint implementation plan. There are also test plans. Therefore, there is frequent and careful testing by all parties before another step is taken. In view of the problems that have arisen in the past summer, suppliers have already said that they are going to investigate and evaluate this. The lessons learned from this will be involved in the implementation plans for pseudonymisation. Should one of the test phases show that there are still greater risks than expected or that incidents occur, we can always adjust the pace of roll-out. It is not the case that as of next summer the whole of education will take the hit at once; there will be work in tranches. You can of course vary, both in tempo and in the size of parties that are going to make the switch. My motto for this type of operation is always better than fast. Schools and suppliers have expressed their ambition and commitment and that has been established; you all believe that. I am glad that also adjacent organisations, for example, think of the student organisations, Parents & Education, the LAKS, the JOB, say that they think that this is a step forward. Then I think I can also satisfy Mr Kwint. He can inform his predecessor that his motion, the Jasper van Dijk motion, will be implemented as soon as all this has been introduced. That motion asked whether the suppliers could destroy all the data they have received in the past on students. An agreement has been made that will happen as soon as that pseudonym is introduced. Mr. Chairman. I'll look around. I have the impression that I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	Be it that Mrs Westerveld has another question. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	We still had a few questions to the Secretary of State we haven't seen answered. At the beginning of my first term I asked if the privacy is 100% guaranteed. This has to do with the fact that we have heard that a name is always given when ordering digital learning tools. We have heard from ICT people that this is going to be the case in the new law, either temporarily or perhaps for the longer term. I was wondering if the Secretary of State could respond to that. I also asked if the Secretary of State could tell us a little bit more about why this method was chosen precisely and not for another, when it comes to the quality of the proposals. Because in the internet consultation a number of other interesting suggestions have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	"Is students' privacy 100% guaranteed?', I think it's a tricky and complicated question. Because what exactly does that mean, apart from the fact that we can never guarantee all things 100%? What we can do, however, is to facilitate as much as possible that no more information about students is shared with third parties than is strictly necessary. I think that sharing can be much less than it is now. Now you see that a lot of information is shared, first name, last name, date of birth, school where the child is in, which is actually not necessary to make the systems work properly. You can limit that to one number, which is not directly traceable, so to speak. I think that's a big step forward. Sometimes it's still linked to something. There too, the litmus test is the question of whether it is necessary to make it work. Sometimes you have to give something extra to make it easy in class, for example. Schools indicate: these pseudonyms are good, but if we don't know which pseudonym belongs to the first name of someone in the class, we can't really work well in the group. Then you always have to consider what it takes to make it work in practice and what that means for students. I think that we are now on a very good track, and we can make that assessment in a careful way. Then your question about quality. This concerns the quality of not only the principle but also the working system. I have just indicated to Mr Kwint that there are a lot of good ways to generate those songs. For our part, the choice has really been made on a system that has already proved itself in practice and remained there on the safe side. We think that quality is very good, by the way. It's solid. I think that will help enormously in the whole implementation process. Because if you start from all kinds of new technologies that a number of connoisseurs say might be just a little bit better, you might run into it that it's less workable. You're dealing with 150 suppliers, which it has to be compatible with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Our point was above all: let us prevent the speed we want to make now because the proposal needs to be introduced quickly, at the expense of quality. I understand from the answer given by the Secretary of State that both elements and workability were well taken into account in the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I'm not doing a second term anymore, so I'm thanking him now. But I have one more question. I said something about the privacy of children, students, in relation to their parents. That is, of course, a very different subject from this law, but I am curious how the Secretary of State looks at the fact that you can follow your child from hour to hour today. I don't like it. I wouldn't even want to. But maybe the Secretary of State has some thoughts about it and we should have something to do with it. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	Some sort of philosophical conclusion of this practical bill! I always think about things like this: if parents don't need it, they don't have to use it. At the same time, parents always have a certain responsibility, especially for underage children. Luckily, students are still smart enough to find things on that too. Let us rest our hopes on that, that in the digital age too, just like when we were still in our shorts, there are students who are making up a nice U-turn on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	That is indeed a reassuring thought. If the Secretary of State is going to write another letter, we will see that, in the light of the AO, it may be nice to pay attention to this point as well. I think that we are running into borders in this area at some point too, because anything is possible. You can so-called hang up cameras in the classes to see if your child is sitting up and paying attention. I guess we don't want that. Well, just a free thought. Seems like a nice close. You don't have to respond to it anymore, but of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	There may also be a second term, if you need it. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. Also thank you for the commitment to inform the Chamber annually about the implementation of the law. We would like this information to be even more comprehensive, precisely to prevent the government from always lagging behind because of the rapid pace of developments. That is why I would like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an evaluation of this law is only carried out five years after the entry into force of the law on pseudonymising the personal number of an educational participant;]] [[Whereas alternative methods are also available to ensure the privacy of pupils;]] [[Whereas there is still insufficient visibility as to whether the chosen approach to self-regulation is sufficiently effective in practice;]] [[Whereas protection of personal data is of great importance in this increasing digital age and there are always new developments in this area;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide an annual state of play on the implementation of the law on pseudonymisation of the personal number of an educational participant;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this process the protection of personal data of all participants in education, developments in this area and how the government acts in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34741-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answers. He's promised he'll pick up a couple of cases. For example, he would like to encourage a study to be sent to the Chamber before the turn of the year on the reasons why schools cannot access digital learning resources. Can he confirm that? He has also promised to inform the Chamber about what went wrong with the Dutch Data Protection Authority when it ends up in the streets with information from students in municipalities. When can the Chamber see a letter on this matter? Finally, I would ask the Secretary of State to take up his commitment to inform the Chamber about the roll-out every year. Does he want to do so in the light of the question of whether we should ultimately decide to introduce a legal obligation? As far as I am concerned, the motion tabled by Mrs Westerveld is superfluous if he is concerned about the extent to which schools comply with the protection of student data and if he asks whether we should not introduce a legal obligation. But I would like a very clear answer from the Secretary of State. Finally, I have a motion on apprenticeship data in municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent months a large number of municipalities have failed to secure and anonymise the personal data of many vulnerable pupils, thereby making them public;]] [[Whereas sector organisations and educational publishing companies have concluded the Digital Educational Means and Privacy 2.0 including model agreements aimed at having national standards to protect the privacy of pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to also conclude such a covenant between the VNG and sector organisations in education, so that municipalities, through a standard, can arrange the anonymisation and security of apprenticeship data as soon as possible, and inform the Court of Justice of this within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34741-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Becker asked me to confirm two more things. She mentioned the research carried out by the suppliers last summer and asked if I could confirm that this will be completed before the end of the year. I really need to check that out. We're not the ones doing that investigation, so we depend on third parties. I hope it's ready by the turn of the year. Then we can take it with us for the roll-out in which we do have an active role, that of what we have talked about today. I'll press on it. If it is later, I will at least let you know when it is. I will also look into the role of the Personal Data Authority. I've been asked to check what went wrong with the Personal Data Authority. For me, something went wrong with the municipalities. I want to protect the authority somewhat and not automatically draw the conclusion that something has gone wrong. I will ask them how they deal with this kind of case, if there is a feeling that there is insufficient response to it. Then there are two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	Perhaps I should have asked Mrs Becker. Are you going to deal with Mrs Becker's motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yes, both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	Oh, then I was too fast. I can now ask the question that you might be able to take with you in discussing that motion. Wouldn't it be useful if a covenant with municipalities were to be concluded on the anonymisation of data, that we would apply it more widely than just education, before we would end up in a whole bunch of covenants, agreements, anonymizations, personalizations and that sort of thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	So you're giving your judgment in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	...that at the end of the day everyone gets confused? I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr Kwint, you have already delivered an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Yeah, but I'm going to go into that, also in the context of rolling resistance. Municipalities are on such a bucket of information. As Secretary of State for Education, I do not think it is my role to talk to municipalities about what to do about their personal data security. In fact, that's part of BZK. At the same time, there is a very specific task in the procurement of student transport, which in fact only involves pupils on the data side. I'd like to take a specific dip in that together with BZK. In my opinion, I have already indicated how, in Mrs Becker's motion on item No. Eight sits. I could do well with that. If the Chamber agrees, I would like to take it over, but I would like to see whether it should be through a covenant or another way. What matters is that a standard is being developed, and that seems to me to be a good idea. Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 7 actually calls for, apart from the evaluation after five years, to come back every year. I can take over too, because I'm good with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	Both motions by Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	Both motions, one by Mrs Westerveld and one by Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes. Then I'll look around to see if there's any objection to taking over both motions. If that is the case, they will be put to the vote. Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	I have a very clear question about the explanation given by the Secretary of State at Mrs Westerveld's motion. I had already asked the Secretary of State a little in my second term. In the end, this mid-term evaluation or the annual monitoring of the VVD should focus on whether it is justified that we have given this freedom to the schools or that we should perhaps consider making it compulsory to work with a pseudonym. Only being informed about the roll-out will I find a little too little. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he takes it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yes. I don't see this as a restrictive motion either. Mr Van Meenen and I also believe that Mr Rog have already mentioned a number of points concerning the question of whether I would like to take them with me, for example on the Knowledge Network. I see that as a good way to inform the Chamber annually about how things are going and then we always have these kinds of balancing moments. Short answer: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	I think you've come to the end of your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It feels a bit like a football match in injury time, and still score. We usually have a lot of grumpy about that in the Netherlands, because the other side then scores.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	Even Mr Kwint is in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yeah, yeah. Then this is a goal in, you might say, spare or injury time that I think makes the whole education happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. I have heard no objection to taking over the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	We'll be voting on the bill next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and his official support.
