ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Geurts. The rules of the game are known, yet I repeat them. You have two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of any motions, which are preferably short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat the general consultation here, but even after reading the report there is one very big question for the CDA group. The Minister states that the update for the scoundrel diesels does not adversely affect the driving characteristics, engine power or fuel consumption. The Minister also states that she does not know why this solution was chosen and that the source codes and the tests are not understood. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Geurts/Van Veldhoven motion (31209, No. 197) has not been sufficiently implemented because it is not clear what effect the software adjustment has on the various models on engine power and consumption;]] [[whereas software fraud has not been committed in vain and therefore the modification of the software which reduces NO emissions must have an effect;]] [[Whereas the car owner should know the effect of the software adjustment on his car;]] [[calls on the Government, the manufacturers and the German authorities to ask for clarification and to carry out further research to make it clear what the software adjustment entails and what effect it has on engine power and consumption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are taking stock of the debates on this huge scandal that have taken place over the last two years. The Chamber has spent a lot of time and energy on this for the past two years. I would also like to mention my colleague Gerben-Jan Gerbrandy, who has drawn the committee of inquiry into this scandal in the European Parliament. The conclusion is that something has gone wrong with legislation and in the system of supervision and enforcement. Consumers have suffered from vested interests and from regulation that left far too much room for what was ultimately cheating. People bought products that didn't do what they were promised. Cars have for a long time emitted many more harmful substances, given what we had agreed with each other. I welcome the implementation of our motions asking consumers to provide fair information upon purchase, to include a limit on nitrogen oxides in the fuel consumption booklet from 2018, to carry out a strength-weakness analysis of the current procedures, in particular with regard to the RDE, and to conduct a second opinion on the solution approved by KBA at Volkswagen. The bottomline is: how do we prevent tampering in the future? For D66 a European solution is important, because with the patchwork of 28 different bodies we are not going to get there. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current form of monitoring of the type-approval of cars through the Member States has proved insufficient;]] [[whereas the type-approval of cars should be completely independent but there are incentives in the current system that undermine that independence;]] [[noting that both the Committee on Transport and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed the creation of a single European type-approval authority and that Member States such as Denmark and France have already declared themselves in favour of stronger European supervision;]] [[calls on the Government, with a coalition of progressive Member States, to work at European level to:]] [[a European competence to review and impose fines independently;]] [[a European audit system (or peer review system) for national type-approval authorities;]] [[a ban on obtaining type-approval elsewhere after it has been refused elsewhere;]] [[regular audits of test plants by the type-approval authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing a motion. I am curious to hear the response to Mr Geurts' motion. That was at the heart of the debate: what do the corrupted consumers notice? Do they have a guarantee that they will not be damaged in the future, in terms of fuel consumption and if they want to sell their cars? The debate also focused on whether the RDW has sufficient powers and enforcement tools to intervene. Is the regulation in Europe sufficiently closed? This was a general discussion on the state of play. I am particularly curious whether the Minister will be able to comment on the state of affairs in Europe in relation to the legislative and regulatory gaps that have just been tabled. I would ask the Minister, in particular, to address the question of whether our RDW has sufficient instruments to act in the event of irregularities. Is there a need to adapt legislation and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas half of the 30 vehicles tested by the RDW have different emission behaviours and therefore manufacturers operate at or beyond the limit of the permissible emissions;]] [[Whereas other vehicles, which have been approved elsewhere in the European Union, also have different emission behaviours and are therefore operating at or beyond the limit of the permissible emission levels;]] [[Whereas no far-reaching actions such as mandatory recall or withdrawal of type-approval have been considered in this respect, let alone;]] [[Invites the Government, in consultation with the RDW, to proceed as soon as possible with regard to the types of vehicle approved in the Netherlands, to take significant action in respect of vehicles of manufacturers that have crossed the limit of the permissible level and to inform the Court of Justice of this by spring 2017 at the latest;]] [[In addition, with regard to vehicles which exceed the limit of the permissible limit but which have been approved elsewhere in the European Union, the Government calls on further action at European level and to inform the Court of Justice by spring 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Hoogland and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	This motion is pointy and brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	You can argue about that. I shall suspend the meeting until the cabinet duo has received the motions in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	I will briefly reopen the sitting to ask Members a question. The same goes for you, Mrs Van Veldhoven. No questions were asked to the Secretary of State. The clerk confirms that, too. Then I think she can go for a walk on the Square. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	To show you that I am listening very well: surely, we are happy to give the Secretary of State the room to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	Very well, then we are going to listen to the Minister's reply in a moment and wish the Secretary of State a pleasant follow-up to her working day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Geurts' motion on item No. 207 with the request to do further research on Volkswagen Polo. I have tried in general consultation to indicate that all the effects of the software update have been investigated. This has been done by the German DMV and the National Road Traffic Agency in collaboration with TNO. They have come to the same conclusion, namely that there is no negative effect on driving characteristics, i.e. not on engine power, emissions and fuel consumption. This is possible because the technology has evolved. So the software has simply been developed. By applying new software it is also possible to get better performance from the old hardware. The RDW also has insight into the changed software. In the AO was asked about the few complaints that would be there after the update. The problems have been caused by an unexecuted previous update. As far as I know, all the problems have already been solved. I advise the Chamber not to adopt this motion, because there is already clarity. The Van Veldhoven/Hoogland motion in part No. 208 relates to making an additional impact on European supervision of the supervisory organisations. The diesel fraud has shown the need to improve the regulatory environment in particular. The regulation has actually ensured that a great deal has been done in practice. The current test system gave too much room for interpretation, which ultimately led to unacceptable behavior. This behaviour must, of course, be condemned, although the rules offer the opportunity to do so. You shouldn't want to do that. I am therefore very pleased that the RDE test will be carried out to determine emissions in practice. Monitoring can also be strengthened. I can support the proposals made in the motion. I do wonder, however, whether there is a majority in Europe for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u13	Are you leaving the verdict to the Chamber or are you taking over that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u14	Do you want me to answer the question first, or is this still helping in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u15	In fact, I always want a judgment first, but if you like to have Mrs Visser interrupt first, I will give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u16	The AO dealt with this and I deliberately put this question to the Minister. The recitals state that there is a need for a single European type-approval authority and that the request to the government is different. The Minister states that she supports the proposals, but that would mean that the RDW would go into one major European supervisor and I do not think that was at the heart of the debate in the AA or the direction the Minister has taken. So I would like a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u17	We specifically discussed at the committee meeting that there will not be a single European body to carry out all the tests. The independent bodies will continue to do so. We have also talked about the fact that there will be one set of regulations and one European organisation that can ensure that 28 different bodies have done it properly. The motion does not call for a single type of approval authority, but rather for a European competence to independently retest and impose fines. That actually just means taking a look at those 28 independent agencies, so you do a sample every now and then like you do in all kinds of other areas. This also means that you have a European audit system for national type-approval authorities to check whether the authorities are doing it properly. And there is a ban on obtaining type-approval elsewhere after it has been refused elsewhere. Often there is a reason for that. And these are audits of test companies by the type-approval authorities. It is therefore not the case that our RDW or other organisations merge into one new organisation. That is also important for me to support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u18	Let me get this straight. Do I understand correctly that the Minister does not support the proposals contained in the observations of the Transport Committees and the Environment Committees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u19	Here is just what the European Parliament's Transport and Environment Committees have said. That's a fact, but that doesn't make it my policy. Indeed, I have made that clear. In the light of the discussion, I think it is appropriate to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. Then we'll see how much support there is for that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u20	Can I put another question to the author of the motion for a resolution for the sake of precision, since we are already having this discussion? Does the second bullet mean "a European audit system" or "a single European audit system"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u21	From the third recital "noting that both the Committee on Transport and the Committee on the Environment of the European Parliament has put forward a proposal for the establishment of a single European type-approval authority," you can see that there is one, with indents on the e. Those one with two indents is not repeated in the request to the Minister, who, moreover, correctly explained that this is simply a factual representation of the situation and that the question of the VVD is therefore based on misreading of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u22	The explanation given here by the Minister is also included in the Acts. That's not for nothing. The Minister continues with the motion in part No. 209.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u23	We come to the motion-Hoogland/Van Veldhoven on piece No. 209. The applicants request that the RDW take action as soon as possible with manufacturers who commit infringements and also with manufacturers who have their cars tested elsewhere, in another European country. After all, the Netherlands only deals with a number of trade marks in which infringements have been detected. The request is also to press for action at European level. I agree with the proposers that manufacturers who have exceeded the permissible level should be dealt with. I have already said in the debate that this is the responsibility of the approval authority which issued the approval. In the Netherlands this is the RDW for a number of brands. The RDW takes this responsibility very seriously. I had a conversation yesterday, and I expect to follow up on the accountability discussions the RDW has had with manufacturers of cars where different emissions have been found. Some have a good reason for that, others don't. We shall also take action on this. That will happen in the foreseeable future. As soon as more is known, I will inform the Chamber. I will also continue to urge, at European level, that the vehicles approved in another country also be subject to occasional action. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy and leave it to the Court to decide. Mrs Visser has asked whether the RDW has sufficient instruments and what the state of affairs is in Brussels. The RDW has enough handles. One can press charges, and then the prosecution has to prosecute. One can also launch a recall action. During the negotiations at the Transport Council in June 2016, under the Dutch Presidency, Member States expressed broad support for strengthening the system of type-approval, market surveillance and equal interpretation and application of EU rules. There are still too many differences between Member States in the interpretation and application of the rules. So it's coming, but it still needs to be arranged. When it is discussed in the council working groups, you can see that it is best to get back to it by the various people who implement it. I believe that too little progress is being made on aspects such as strengthening supervision, peer reviews, accreditation or a strong role for the European Commission. I expect the negotiations to take a long time, but I am very open about that. We have clearly made our point. Ministers have also agreed to this, but the negotiation process is slow. I will draw attention to this again the next time we as ministers meet again in plenary. There must be a majority of Member States in favour of reaching agreement, so that still requires some lobbying. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-5.u24	I thought Mr Geurts wanted to interrupt, but he's just walking. Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of this report. I propose that we vote on the three motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes to gather all the players from the next round.
