ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I would also like to welcome the members of the College of the General Court, Arno Visser and Francine Giskes, and, of course, the people in the public gallery. There is a great deal of interest in the accountability and accountability debate this year. Last week, at the initiative of Pieter Duisenberg, the V100 took place, a meeting with 100 people from all over society. That was a very, very interesting day. They have asked questions about the department's annual reports, and I assume that all the committees that have forwarded questions to the cabinet, so that they will also be answered. As soon as those answers are in, we will inform the participants of the V100. In addition, we can use the sounds we heard during the V100 in this debate. I'm very curious about that today. I've been seeing Mr. Tony van Dijck for a long time. He really wants to do the talking. He's getting the word now, too. Mr Van Dijck speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the Finance Committee has also asked a lot of factual questions. I just understood that we're not getting the answers until Friday. It is, of course, a pity that we have not been able to get the answers to the many questions, including those of the V100, before this debate. That might be something for next time. Today we are looking back to 2016 and today is officially meatloaf day. The economy grew by 2.2% for the third year in a row and the deficit fell for the first time in many years, I believe since 2008, in a surplus of 0.4%. So this finance minister raised more taxes than he needed. He's collected nearly 3 billion too much from the citizens. So my first question is: how is he going to give back the 3 billion? After all, it's taxpayers' money. It has paid too much and it has to be paid back in any case as far as the PVV is concerned. Unemployment also fell, with 75,000 people compared to 2015. That is good, but that still makes up for only half of the 150 000 unemployed who have joined this cabinet. So we still have 75,000 to go, I'd say. Looking back, we can only conclude that the Rutte II cabinet has been smashed through the porcelain cabinet unnecessarily, with only one goal in mind: public finances must be put in order, if not willingly, then ill-advised. Well, that was successful, but the question is at what price, to use the words of the Court of Auditors. Rutte cut nearly 50 billion to cut the deficit by half. So the other half was actually lost. It's been leaked. Death and mortal sin. This minister is also proud of it. In many words, he is trying to defend the disastrous policy. He even pretended to have saved the country. What country? Greece? In this respect, he looks like Mario Draghi, who came here without embarrassment to say that his policy has restored the economy and created 4.5 million jobs. You've got to dare! And that while everyone agrees that a government policy of massive cuts and burdens has made the economy unnecessarily damaged and deepened the crisis. We have permanently become 6% poorer and we have missed 350,000 jobs. That's just bad and stupid policy. Minister Dijsselbloem flees into all kinds of rhetoric from the French battle, but he knows damn well that he stepped too hard on the brakes. We're still waiting for a mea culpa. And yes, something came up last Monday. The minister shot the spring deal hard. The 9 billion in burdens of the Kunduz agreement was bad for the Netherlands. Did I read that correctly? He literally said, "well, brave, but not good." The question is therefore why this Minister has not intervened. He took office in 2012. The agreement was agreed on 2013. He knew that the agreement was bad and damaging to the Netherlands, that tens of thousands of companies were going to fall, that hundreds of thousands of people were going to lose their jobs. That's not brave, that's cowardly and very bad. Is the Minister going to defend his policy here again? Or is he finally admitting his mistakes? Speaking of errors, the number of errors remains within the margin, so the Court of Auditors gives discharge on the annual accounts. So much for the good news. At the same time, however, the General Court has made it clear that billions of public funds have also been spent legally, but not effectively and effectively. What were the goals and what are the results? The Court wondered out loud whether the money was being spent wisely, economically and carefully. In other words, is the citizen getting value for his money? We don't know. I read that 2.4 billion has been spent on appropriate education, without it being clear whether that money has been spent on additional support for our children. I also read that every year an additional 1.4 billion goes to education, but that people do not know where that money has gone, while people know that there are 6% fewer teachers and 8% larger classes, and that there are 2% lower salaries compared to 2002. How is that possible? That's what I'm asking this minister. I read that out of six out of ten tax deductions, it is unclear what they cost and what the effect is, tax deductions, which alone cover some 100 billion in lost tax revenues, then I wonder: what is this? We deliberately miss billions of taxes, knowingly and knowingly, but we don't know what the effect is. Is the Minister going to investigate this further? If I ask for a tax scheme of 700 million for expats to be abolished, which the whole Chamber does not think is doing what it should do, then the whole Chamber is looking at the ceiling. Well, that's not gonna work either. It is noted in the research Probable innovation policy that innovation subsidies are spent for less than half on innovation. Then you should be wondering if there's no other way to do that. When I read that it is completely unclear whether 1.6 billion for improving air quality has had any effect on the same air quality, I wonder: what is this? With the greatest ease, 600 million will be set aside for Minister Asscher to create jobs, but we do not know whether this 6 million has even produced one job. 100 million are being released to help health care workers from work to work, while at the same time we read that there are major shortages of healthcare staff. What are we doing? If I read that after all the changes in the pgb, 40% has still been spent illegally, and 40% of 2.3 billion, you should intervene, right? Or if the Tax Authority uses unauthorized 700 million for gold handshakes and EAT schemes, then all of that can just happen and nobody intervenes! The Court of Auditors then approves of legality because of the small margin of error, but what is the Court's assessment of efficiency or effectiveness? I'm assuming it's a fat one. We can also see that 60% of the national spending is being thrown over the fence to municipalities and institutions. So these billions are no longer accounted for in this house. Who knows what's gonna happen to that money? At the same time, I read that half of the municipalities do not receive approval from an accountant. That speaks volumes. We're throwing 60% over the fence, and on the other side of the fence, no endorsement is given by the accountant. Municipalities, that's how we read last year, leave 1.2 billion in care money. It just stays on the shelf, while the elderly are rotting at home. Citizens deserve to be properly accountable for how their hard-earned tax dollars are spent, and this is not happening at the moment. Take care of asylum seekers. We can't ask how much that costs. We can't know what it costs. This Minister of Finance refuses to answer: it is inappropriate to ask what an asylum seeker costs in receiving asylum. Let in tens of thousands of lucky seekers, but we can't know what that costs. I am therefore pleased that the General Court has made an attempt this year to calculate these costs. They may be estimates, but they're better than nothing. In 2015, expenditure on asylum reception amounted to EUR 1.8 billion, for the reception of 58,000 asylum seekers. What's my surprise? In 2016, it still costs EUR 1.8 billion for half the number of asylum seekers. How is that possible? How can half of the number of asylum seekers cost as much as twice as much? Is that because the COA has long-term leases and now has to pay for empty shelters? There are 45 azc's closing. Tell me it's not. Who is responsible for this waste? Who can we deal with this mischief? As we all know, this minister also likes to write blank cheques abroad. The question is how these are accounted for. I do not read anything about that in the accounts. What happens to our money, what happens to the billions of our taxpayers' money? Is the EUR 1 billion in reception in the region being spent legally and effectively? How was the 20 billion spent on Greece? The EU: 8 billion; how is it spent? We all know that money goes to countries like Romania and Poland. Development aid: 4.2 billion; how is it spent? It keeps guessing, and we all hope it worked out, but it's still a big black hole where we're throwing our hard-earned tax dollars in. For some here that makes a good feeling, but for the PVV it does not make a good feeling. The PVV considers it a pure waste of billions of tax dollars that we could have spent on our own people in the Netherlands. That is a matter of priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	Those are all very sensible questions. We need to know whether money is being spent properly, whether it is being used usefully. Today it has become clear that MEPs receive €4,300 per month in addition to the remuneration they already get to keep their offices. It's weird. Now journalists ask those MEPs: explain, where is that money? Do you know which Members of the European Parliament say 'we are not telling you where it is'? The one from the PVV. What do you think of that, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	The PVV is a great advocate of accountability, as my story also showed. If transparency is to be given, then it must simply be given. We also answer if we get an expense allowance. However, we also receive expenses that we do not have to justify. I do not know where Mrs Leijten lives, but if she lives in Maastricht, she will receive a subsistence allowance to be able to stay in The Hague during Chamber days. She doesn't have to explain whether she's with an uncle, an aunt or in the Hilton.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	I live in Haarlem. The reimbursement of expenses is covered by our payment scheme, which is very transparent, but that is a very different discussion. It is about the transparency that is required about the office costs of the PVV MEPs in the European Parliament (EUR 4,300 per month). You ask for responsibility for all kinds of things, meaningful and less meaningful, and that is your job. But if journalists want to do their job and ask your colleagues in Brussels where that money is, then they do not have to answer. I would like to make a very quick call to Brussels, so that they will give it to the NIS today. Then you won't be in your shirt like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	I don't think it's too bad being in the shirt. What I said was that we are very much in favour of accountability, especially when it comes to taxpayers' money, of course. Today we are talking about the liability of EUR 240 billion in taxpayers' money spent by this cabinet. I believe that this should be justified, that it should be made clear in advance what the objectives are and that it should be indicated whether those objectives have been achieved. That's what we're here for today. Once again, if you receive a subsistence allowance for The Hague because you live in Haarlem, Maastricht or anywhere else, you do not have to justify it. That's the rules. You may return the money, you may stay with an uncle and you may simply use the money to drive up and down; whatever you want. Those are the rules of the game. You must respect the rules of the game. But there is no doubt that accountability is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	The rules of the game in Europe are no good. The fee is too high and there is no need for public accountability. Saying it doesn't have to be by the rules of the game is kind of lame. If you ask this government to be accountable to the decimal place, then you have to support initiatives to be accountable. But even then, the PVV doesn't give at home. The PVV would like to receive €4,300 each month for each PVV member in the European Parliament and not answer for it, and there is no need for accountability. That's double standards. It's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	I didn't say there shouldn't be any rules. Mrs Leijten is now pretending that only the PVVs are getting these expenses. I assume that all Members of the European Parliament will have it and that all Members of the European Parliament will have to answer for that money. If no rules have been agreed, then it is high time that rules were agreed. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to add...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u11	No, that's really a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u12	All MEPs get it. Journalists have asked for responsibility. The PVV doesn't give that responsibility. It has been proposed to be held accountable and the PVV voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Mr. Van Dijck was ready. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. In 2012 the Rutte II cabinet took office. We were in the middle of a severe economic crisis. The economy was shrinking, unemployment was rising, the housing market was in a slump and many houses were underwater. The government spent a lot more money than she got in. The government debt was too high and went up fast. That shines away from the figures for 2016, the year we are talking about today. In 2016, the economy grew by 2.2%. 109,000 jobs were added. Unemployment fell to 6%. Never before have so many people bought a house. There was a budget surplus of 0.4%. The public debt fell and was EUR 32 billion lower than foreseen. Let me be clear immediately: that is certainly not only the merit of this cabinet and all the constructive parties that have contributed to agreements. As far as we are concerned, it is first and foremost the merit of all the hard-working Dutch and entrepreneurs, who have had a hard time in the crisis and have had to deal with firm measures. Everyone in the Netherlands has felt that and has led to a lot of uncertainty, but in the end there is a good result. For example, the Netherlands is the most competitive economy in the EU and the fourth in the world, the ninth most innovative economy, the second country with the least risk of poverty in the EU, the country with the best care in the EU, the country with the second best pension system in the world, the fourth best country to live in, the sixth best country for the elderly and, another important point, the Dutch children are among the happiest children in the world. So this cabinet has done a big job, under great resistance. I remember the accusations well. They have just been repeated by the PVV. If you see the results now, you can't help but think, "What do you mean the economy is ruined?" The Netherlands is in good shape and has actually emerged stronger from the crisis, but that is certainly not the end of our work. A lot of people hear and read that things are getting better but don't feel it in their own lives yet. The taxes in the Netherlands are still too high and there are still too many people without a job. There are also a lot of economic uncertainties, because what are the consequences of the Brexit and what is happening at our external borders, in Turkey and Ukraine? People are also uncertain about their safety. In recent years, the terrorist attacks have become part of our lives. Those attacks in our way of life must never, ever be found ordinary. The same applies to the fight against IS, the danger posed by the returning IS fighters and the refugee issue. The flow of people through the Turkey route has been tackled, but we are now seeing other flows starting, for example from Libya. We still have to implement the Paris climate agreement. As far as we're concerned, we need to do that in a smart way. And, not least, public debt is still too high to absorb any blows in the future. So there's a lot of business to be done. In order to be able to do so, we need a government that has its own affairs in order and that meets the high demands that we have here in our country. Last year there was a strong criticism of the shortcomings in business management, especially the serious shortcomings in the ministries of V and J and Defence and in the Tax Administration. The criticism of this was quite justified. That is why it is good to see today that there are no serious shortcomings in these departments anymore. Compliments to the relevant ministries and to the Minister of Finance for the reduction of the final policy changes. However, the overall number of business failures has increased, from 27 to 36, and this needs to be improved. My group is particularly concerned about the no less than nine deficiencies in information security. We expect a careful government that deals adequately and decisively with the security of information. We do not want to ask ourselves whether our data is safe with the government, for example for the recent ransom attacks. Citizens and businesses should simply be able to assume that their data is safe with the government. It concerns the incomplete implementation of the Baseline information security agreements with the ministries and some critical systems, but also the requirements of the data leak notification obligation. The improvement process is slow. The VVD wants this resolved quickly. I'm sure that's what the minister and the cabinet want. How's the Minister gonna do that? In addition, I would like to ask how we can achieve more enforceable agreements. Have we properly organised information security with separate departmental ICT services? How does the Minister himself assess coordination with regard to information security? What about the information security of government executives, such as UWV, SVB and DUO? Are they future-proof? As far as we are concerned, this has to be in order by the end of 2017. At a time when the government keeps more and more information for good reasons and hacks and cybercrime take a flight, this really needs to be dealt with. As far as we are concerned, this is more than just making new agreements that better meet the needs of the departments, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out. We are concerned that there is a shortage of ICT expertise in the public sector. The VVD wonders whether specific labour market campaigns and ICT placement agencies will be sufficient to resolve this. What more does it take? According to the VVD, there is profit to be gained by professionalising personnel policy. How's the cabinet looking at that? To what extent is the Top Income Standards Act an obstacle? My colleague from the PVV also mentioned the social effects. I have been in politics since 2002, first in the city council, then in Provincial States and now in the Lower House. All this time, I have been working for more insight into the results of the policy. Sometimes the effects of the policy are unknown and sometimes it is unknown whether the effects are the result of the policy. It is a slow and viscous process to bring about improvement. Yet I intend to continue to fight for improvements. Is the taxpayer getting what he owes for his money? Are the measures we take cost-effective? Are we gonna get what we want with all that taxpayers' money? These are important questions for the VVD. The same goes for the action V1000, V100 I mean. It was just a little less there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u15	Maybe next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u16	Maybe. As the President pointed out, experience experts have looked at all these annual reports. Again, there are a lot of questions about the impact of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u17	Seven years of VVD in power and then we don't know what we're up to. This may be a bit faint, as I hear from the Chamber, but it is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think we should note that this is a collective responsibility and that it is not the VVD's fault. That also depends on the Chamber. After all, we could have done things too. However, this is the situation after two Cabinets-Rutte, with the Labour Party. We also did business with the cabinet, so we could have done things. How do we break through this, so that we do not get a report from the Court of Auditors, perhaps not next year, but the year after or in three years' time, entitled 'Satisfactory vision of policy effectiveness'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u19	I agree that we've been in a cabinet for six years. The Chamber has an important role to play in ensuring that accountability and impact are sharp. I think we should look at ourselves, too. In recent times, we have looked mainly at policy reviews. They need to be better. The quality needs to be improved. The same applies to the involvement of the Chamber in these policy reviews: what exactly are you going to investigate? We have initiated the Duisenberg method of accountability and budget. I think there are still a number of things that can be improved. I'll get back to you on that. The report of the Study Group on Budget Space in the context of Operation provides a number of good points of reference. We should also be very pleased that the new Compatibility Act contains measures to measure the effects in advance in the case of a policy proposal. Those are good improvements. I hope that this will have some effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Duisenberg has certainly done a fine job from the Chamber, with all the proposals that there are. But does Mrs De Vries think that we have sufficiently stipulated that the government should initially not come from the Chamber; we should simply check that there are enough automatic evaluations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have a number of comments to make. I believe that we need to make more multi-annual reviews of policy, so that we can better understand when something has been evaluated for the last time. That insight is still lacking. This is one of the recommendations of the Budget Space Steering Committee. The Minister of Finance has announced a number of no-regret measures. That's good. It will remain very difficult to assess the impact of each measure in a comprehensive package. That does not mean that we should not attempt to do so. Especially in the ordinary budgetary and accountability documents, information needs to be improved. It should not depend solely on policy reviews or evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u23	In fact, I have now said quite a few words about what I wanted to say. So we have improved a number of things recently on the initiative of the VVD. According to us, there are leads in the Operation insight into quality. We are curious to see what further possibilities the cabinet can see for this. We are also looking forward to the implementation of the measures contained in the Compatibility Act on the effectiveness and effectiveness of policies. When will there be clarity about this interpretation? We can improve these policy reviews and assessments, but I believe that this should become a structural part of the budget and the annual accounts. There's got to be an improvement. How's the Cabinet gonna handle this? The VVD recognises the Court's criticism of information on the use and effects of, for example, appropriate education and air quality. The VVD has spotted this before. For education, this is now being worked on by the Lumpsum working group. As far as we are concerned, steps must be taken quickly. No evaluation of air quality funds for 10 years? It just can't be. You want to know what the social impact is and what the cost-effectiveness of the measures is. The VVD believes that these kinds of programs should be evaluated much earlier, so that you can see whether the tax money is being used properly. Can the Cabinet promise that such evaluations will be carried out more frequently? In contrast to the Minister of SZW, is the cabinet prepared to carry out an evaluation of the Sectoral Plan for Healthcare, as recommended by the General Court? As far as accountability is concerned, here's what I'm talking about. As of 1 January 2017, the pilot Simplification Steering Agencies has been launched, including at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. As far as the VVD is concerned, this should not lead to any less accountability. Effective implementation and simplification are good, but we still need to keep an eye on accountability. Can that be confirmed? I'm coming to the Monitor Brede Prosperity. The VVD wants the Monitor Brede Prosperity, which will be published in May 2018, simply to become an annual report with a value-free exploration of broad prosperity. In principle, therefore, the VVD does not need an annual theme with that monitor. If this is going to happen, the VVD prefers the theme allocation of time, which is also mentioned in the report. Much has been done, but there is still plenty to do. The mission is clear: we must do everything we can to keep our country safe and to ensure that the economy stays on steam so that people can reap the benefits. The Netherlands is an incredibly cool country. We want to make it even better one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u24	How cool the Netherlands is is depends entirely on the perspective from which you look at it and the opportunities you have. That depends on whether you have a fixed contract or not, whether you're on a waiting list for the youth ggz, whether you're needy, if you've asked for home care and get it at all. I will talk about this in my term, but that is not the question I would like to ask the VVD, because I know she has a blind spot for such social problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u25	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u26	But maybe the VVD doesn't have a blind spot for the problems at the Tax Office. There's a lot of flaws in the IRS. The General Court notes that the Tax Administration can barely fulfil its core task of collecting taxes. It's all hands on deck. There is now a cut of half a billion on the Tax Office. How responsible does the VVD Group think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u27	Let me make a very brief comment on the first point. Of course, you always have to look at the problems that exist, but I would like to point out that the average figure given by the Dutchman when asked for his or her satisfaction is an 8. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are also groups that have less. I have already said a number of things about this in my contribution. Then I come to the issue of the Tax Office. The General Court draws a number of tough conclusions. I think they're mostly a confirmation of what we already knew. We have had the Borstlap/Joustra committee, which has drawn a number of firm conclusions. I'm glad a lot of measures have been taken. We will follow this critically. Everyone has had to contribute to the cuts. We shall look in particular at the question of whether continuity is guaranteed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he may come back to this when considering the Spring Note if measures are needed. I'd like to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u28	Actually, the VVD says: I want to take action, but I'm just waiting to see what the government is doing. Is that how I interpret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u29	No, I think we have had a lot of debates here about the Tax Administration. A lot of measures have already been put in place. Think of the direction from the Ministry, the supervision of the Tax Administration in terms of expenditure and the re-evaluation of the investment agenda. It's certainly not like nothing's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have been a spokesperson on the subject of nursing homes in a previous parliamentary life. In addition, the VVD was okay with saving half a billion more while the residents and staff were on the brink of water. That went off the table because of the commitment of the Chamber and the PvdA to the cabinet. In the election, the VVD suddenly wanted 2 billion for the nursing homes. I hope it goes the same way in the case of the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u31	There has been no cuts in nursing care in the past period. We've looked into what's needed. I think that we agree that investment is needed and that a cabinet should use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u32	We are looking back to 2016 today; that is what this Accountability debate is about. However, this is also the time to look back at the entire period-Rutte II, in which the VVD has ruled this country together with the PvdA. The question is, of course, what lessons the VVD has learned for the future from this period. What does she say, never again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u33	It is very important to take timely action. The PVV abandoned us in 2012. At the time, measures were urgently needed. The lesson you should learn from this is that you have to make sure you have your housekeeping book in order so that you can do the things you have to do to keep the country safe and to keep the economy on steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u34	The question is different. The Kunduz Agreement was concluded in 2012. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has seen the light of day and has realised that the Kunduz agreement was bad news for the Netherlands and the Dutch economy. Who is going to raise taxes by 9 billion in the depths of the crisis? Then you're not quite good. I am not just saying that, the CPB, the General Court and all the economists in this world are saying that you should not have done that. I hope that this quarter, raising taxes by 9 billion in the depths of a crisis, has at least fallen into the VVD and that it will never do so again, because that is very bad for an economy, for companies, for jobs and so on. Has this quarter fallen now or does Mrs De Vries say that I would do it again tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u35	These are those beautiful rhetorical questions. I believe that at that time very heavy measures were needed. Mr Van Dijck was not prepared to take it. We do not want to raise taxes either, as he knows the VVD, but if it is necessary, it must be done at some point and then it must be looked at how things can be put in order properly. That's all that matters. The PVV ran away from that. I'm sorry to hear that. She could have been at the wheel with us and decided what would happen, but she didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u37	If it's stupid policy that the whole world who knows about it says "don't do it," I'm not going to be driving, yet stoic on the way to the abyss. Mrs De Vries expects this from the PVV, but we will not. It has apparently found other parties willing to do so. We are now in the throes, because we now see that 35,000 companies have gone bankrupt and that 150 000 people have been driven into unemployment thanks to this policy. I hope for a retrospection, for a moment, to consider what has gone wrong in the past period and where we have gone wrong. That's okay, because everyone gets to make mistakes, but it's just been really expensive mistakes. A little self-reflection at this point would adorn the VVD; it would adorn her if she would say: yes, sorry Netherlands, that went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u38	Would you like to respond briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u39	Self-reflection is always good, perhaps the PVV should do so more often. I said the Netherlands is a cool country. Mr Van Dijck said earlier that this is the only country he wants to live in. I have mentioned a number of things that just go really well in the Netherlands. Then Mr Van Dijck cannot say that we have gone to the abyss. With the figures that are now shown in the annual reports for 2016, he cannot say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. The country's finances are doing well. The economy is in full swing and unemployment has fallen below 6%. There is an increase of more than 2% and the budget deficit has turned into a small budget surplus. That's worth a compliment. However, we also know from the media that there are setbacks of a number of billions. The Spring Note must be submitted by 1 June, which is next Thursday. It will not only have to indicate what the setbacks are for this year, but also what the setbacks are for the next four years. This is due to the new Compatibility Act, which also provides an answer to the question put to Mr Van Dijck, because objectives must also be included in the policy. Can the Minister give us a look at the real state of the country? One of the things the Prime Minister rightly points out in his letter of accountability is the MH17. He states that a presentation was given of the JIT (Joint Investigation Team) study, that he has worked on broad international support for the independent research and that he strives to inform the next of kin. However, two comments on international cooperation are made on the website and in the e-zine of the Public Prosecutor. Russia has been asked for radar images within three months of taking down MH17. Russian soldiers said on July 21, four days after taking down MH17, there were radar images of two radar stations. The radar images of the second station have not yet been received and from the first they cannot be deciphered. Furthermore, according to the JIT, the tapes that were made when the SBU bugged people in Ukraine were not transferred to the research team. We're talking about three years after that. Is this broad international support in the eyes of the Prime Minister? Are Russia and Ukraine faithfully participating in the investigation as they should in view of UN Security Council Resolution 2166, or are they not? I come to a number of more common points. I'll start with the IRS. One red card has been wiped out. I give the compliments, but there are still eight yellow cards. That is more than any other government institution has received. The Court's report contained very interesting points. I'm gonna walk by some of them. There are no good internal checks-and-balances, we knew that, but the hairs really didn't get to me until the passage that was about the redundancy scheme. As may be known, an official who applied before 1 July 2016 could receive two years' salary, even though it took him two months to go with AOW. A civil servant who made €50,000 could get a ton. If he applied after 1 July in the same situation, he received a maximum of two monthly salaries. So that's a little less than $10,000. So it made a huge difference whether that official completed his form before 1 July or after. And what is in the report on accountability now? "We found that a large number of employees who had made an application after 1 July to benefit from the scheme were advised to make the application again, but with a date just before 1 July." That's bogus writing by tax officials. Apparently, they were encouraged by the summit of the Tax Administration. When did the government know this was happening? How many people are we talking about? What is the budgetary impact of this? After all, there's a lot of stuff here. If a citizen fills out a wrong date or a wrong form intended for the Tax Office, we go to the criminal court. What else happens to the redundancy scheme? The ARAR braking system pursuant to Article 49xx is only lawful if, even for every FIOD employee and Customs officer who leaves, someone else would be fired. The Court of Auditors says that if this happens at any time, it is possible to apply this article. So the question to the government is: are we going to replace all these few hundred retired customs officers with people from the Tax Administration Fees or by people who have to leave other places, or is this expenditure unlawful? I would like to hear a clear answer to this. How does the Minister see the problems at the Tax Office? Will these have consequences for tax collection? Then I will deal with the results of the policy. The Court of Auditors makes the sad observation that we cannot check whether all the billions we put into policy have the desired effects. Shouldn't this be formulated much "smart": we want to achieve result X by giving Y and we can check that at time Z? That is difficult, because measuring state security, for example, is quite difficult. I come now to a key point of my input. We focus in The Hague on the wrong things. The debate on responsibility is the time to consider in detail the responsibility for what we are all doing here in The Hague. I believe that we in The Hague are very committed to models, lists and statistics. There's a lot to note. I say that as a doctorate statistician, but I'll explain. Dutch politics suffers from models and statistics fetishism. Before the cabinet took office, all electoral programmes and the coalition agreement were passed on. During the reign, there is a constant flow of reports based on models that can show whether the policy is functioning. Well, it always works great. I would like to give honourable references for such reports to Ministers Opstelten and Van der Steur and to State Secretary Van Rijn. Follow reports that the policy has been awesome and that the goals have been met. The General Court of Auditors is one of the few institutions and High Colleges of State that is stinging through it with its yellow cards. I will come back to that later; I have already mentioned the Tax Administration, but first I will deal with this Dutch disease. Models are a tool as a check, not as ultimate truth. For the elections or for the annual purchasing power cards everyone explicitly sends on the output of the model. If a structural purchasing power and a structural employment are what the CPB 'does', we all put what it achieves in the model. The first problem is that the margins of uncertainty are enormous. In 2040 there is sometimes 0.3% difference in employment between the parties. That's really insignificant. The first is the best change in statistics, an adjustment of estimates. Think about unemployment. In 2016, it was predicted that unemployment would remain 6.7%; last year I had a little discussion with the Minister of Finance. Both of us thought that unemployment would fall significantly as a result of predicted economic growth. That's what happened. The second problem is that you steer on what works well on the model and not on what is politically and socially desirable. Let me give you a few examples. Everyone wants to increase purchasing power for everyone without spending extra money, a kind of perpetuum mobile of an econometric model. Well, that exists in the Netherlands. Do you know how to do that? You give a complicated concession that everyone is entitled to, but you make it so complicated that not everyone uses it. It then counts for purchasing power. An example: 15 years ago, there was the age gap in extraordinary expenditure. Only a small minority made use of it, but everyone was entitled to it. An increase in it cost little and so the government did, but the consequences were disastrous. When it got rough enough, everyone started using it; all the elderly unions were going to fill out the tax forms. Millions of Dutch people were deducted from care costs. Afterwards, it was drastically stripped, which also affected the people who really needed the deduction. This model therefore led to overly complex use of a scheme and the undressing of a scheme which was in itself best suited to what it was intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u42	What a joyful day this is! Am I right to point out that the CDA agrees with the Animal Party that the models madness and the statistical calculation of election programs do not make much sense and that the CDA, like the Animal Party, will not participate in this next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u43	This is exactly the kind of discussion I would like to have right now. I am therefore pleased that you are asking this question, which I would like to answer at the end. I would like to see a degree of transfer of policies and also of electoral programmes, but I note that the way in which we are dealing with them has gone a long way. We have a very thick package from the Central Planning Bureau; we like it better, but the Party for Animals probably finds the Planning Office for the Environment more interesting. That is a sham reality, but if we do not give any information at all, we can also reasonably engage ourselves with our own test balloons. So I want to deal with the models in a better way. That may also be a less extensive way, but throwing away the child with the bath water. The second example is that the CPB has paragraphs on accessibility, care and education in the pass-through of the election programmes, but not on the rule of law. It is difficult to measure them, but in the coalition agreement there were unachievable cuts on the entire justice chain and even on the AIVD. What about the army? Alas, the fact that the Dutch army was unable to defend its own territory and to carry out the NATO ally mission did not come to light until later. The core task of the night watchman state, the security of the citizens, was no longer a goal. We knew that. The third problem is that some measures do great in models. For example, there is the IACK, a tax discount for the least-earning partner. This leads to higher purchasing power and more employment in the models and earns itself almost entirely back. That's too good to be true. However, this discount means that a single parent will retain many thousands of euros per year of the same income as the income of a single earner who, for example, has a sick partner at home. Does the government know any other tax system in Europe or the world? What if you have to pay more taxes if you have to support more people with the same income? Well, that is the case in the Netherlands. The justice of that distinction is hardly discussed, while politically it is a very relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u44	I welcome Mr Omtzigt's example of the IACK. When he started talking about models, I wanted to ask about them. My specific question is whether Mr Omtzigt can respond to the transfer of the 5 billion package, which was finally approved in the First Chamber. It was said that, according to the models, this would create more than 35,000 jobs. The vast majority, over 20,000, of this has to do with the IACK. Out there, it's only 15,000. 5 billion for 15,000 jobs, apart from the IACK. No one knows whether these more than 35,000 jobs have been created, or whether those 15,000 jobs, apart from the IACK, have been realized. One year later, the measure to repair the purchasing power of older people cost 1 billion in structural terms. This led to another loss of 23,000 jobs. What conclusions does Mr Omtzig draw from this? 5 billion is gone with 35,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u45	Clear. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u46	A year later, 1 billion were needed, with a loss of 23,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u47	This question alone shows that we are completely out of touch. The aim of burden relief is often to get a little more pay to work for those in the Netherlands who work hard. All we do here is talk about jobs. I see Mr Van Weyenberg watching; he does so more than anyone else. There's also a discussion of justice behind it. You may think that you should actively guide mothers of young children to the labour market. I think that is a much more purer discussion than saying that these models are wrong. Mr Van Rooijen talks about the 5 billion package. In it there is something else strange, namely the LIV (low-income advantage). The LIV is a grant of up to €2,000 per employee that you employ for a year at a minimum wage level or at a maximum of 110% of the minimum wage. That works great in models: it generates many thousands of jobs. At the end of this year, however, we will find out that employers or couple managers receive €2,000 funding for an Eastern European who is brought here to do work at low income, but that Dutch people in a social workshop are excluded from that scheme because of the somewhat shorter working time and week. So what is happening with this arrangement is something that is socially desirable? Not at all. In fact, it was only introduced into the model world. I want us to get out of there a little bit. That does not mean, as Mr Van Raan said, that you no longer want to talk about models at all. I want to, but not like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have a short question. Does Mr Omtzig think that this LIV should be reviewed, to see whether the intended effects actually occur and whether we should reconsider this scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u49	The short answer to that is yes. At the end of the year, I would like to see who got this grant under LIV and whether there are any groups that we would like them to work with. If it's a stepping stone to work for people who are on welfare and otherwise don't get out of there, it's one thing. I can justify that. However, if it is a way of subsidising groups which otherwise do work, or of subsidising the retail sector, I would like to think again about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u51	I asked a few questions about the IACK. I don't think the IACK's gonna run into the wall until people find out that these shams are triggering. If two working parents make a sham separation, they can make more than €15,000 net gains in this country. Those are government figures. It is very attractive to register with your parents as a young father of a newborn child. This saves net more than €1,000 per month. There is no control of the municipality anyway, because the Tax Administration suffers the loss, not the municipality. During a cabinet period, of course, we receive thirty press releases and letters. For six years, the Ministry of Security and Justice was a success number, according to the directors. No less true. The cabinet has always sold the cuts on Security and Justice by beating itself on the chest about falling crime rates. It has now become clear that crime is not falling. The crime has shifted. A lot of crime takes place on the Internet and organised crime has been getting grounded in the Netherlands. Last week there was another report showing that the police don't even see most of the crime. Prisons are now being closed, while thousands of convicts are still out there. We hope that investment in the police and the judiciary will enable crime to be dealt with again and criminals to disappear behind bars. And just as Secretary of State Wiebes forgot to report to the Chamber in April 2016 that he was spending half a billion in buy-offs, while he just wrote a hundred pages about all sorts of small things to the Chamber, the Ministry of Security and Justice didn't report these things either. Let me just take one final statement, namely the final statement on the administrative burden. Mr President, you remember that under Purple I the administrative burden had to be reduced by 10%. Since then, each cabinet had 25% administrative burden reduction as its objective. If all of us had made it, there would be no form left in this country. And all the goals were met at all times. This cabinet, too, almost fully achieves the objective. And do you know what, according to the Cabinet, is by far the largest administrative burden reduction? As many as 5,000 FTE's less administration with the police. This was written by Minister Blok, Minister of State at the time, and now also Minister of the police himself to the Chamber. I would think that the policemen would singing and dancing through the streets, because they would all have an hour less administration per person per day; according to the government model then. At the presentation, Chief Akerboom remarked: "Even though colleagues do not notice the results directly, they still motivate the findings to continue along this path." Check made, model satisfied and still the police computers don't always work. Minister Blok continued. According to him, an administrative burden relief has been achieved at Mrs Leijten's pgb's. These have led to less administrative burden on the pgb holders. Don't tell them, I'd say. And thezzp'ers also suffer less from administrative burdens, because there are no more administrative burdens as a result of the model contracts, according to the cabinet. Does the Cabinet itself believe this? The answer will probably be yes, and then they can also come up with the NRC factcheck, because it said that the cabinet's statement was correct. So in this country you can even keep one of the grinding stones of the mind sharp and fooled by saying that this is happening. It's crazy. Accountability day forces us to look very closely at how we do things. We are being guided too much by the means and not by what is happening in reality. It leads to complicated rules and cynical citizens, because you can't fool them constantly with fake purchasing power tags. That is why I ask the House of Representatives and also this cabinet for a brief reflection. How can we start rethinking these models? People can laugh about it, but the rest of the Netherlands can't understand it anymore. How can we get scientists, politicians and perhaps the Court of Auditors together that these models reflect a little more of reality and that we are having the underlying discussion? I shall also table a motion for a resolution on this subject in the second term. Then I'll get to information security. ICT remains a worry child with the government, and not least cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u52	I also have a lot of criticism about the models. It can always be much better, but I would ask Mr Omtzig whether he does not agree that politicians should occasionally stand for the choices they make, and that perhaps the analyses that are being made also say something about the choices that parties make. I fully understand that the CDA, perhaps even more than the PVV, criticises the CPB, because its figures show what the CDA stands for: greater inequality in society. No wonder you want to introduce a flat tax and not burden the richest. Nothing for sustainability, nothing at all; there you stand with your stewardship. I understand that criticism, but isn't it the result of the choices made by the CDA in recent years? I am not even talking about Europe, about your opportunistic actions in relation to the Ukraine referendum and I know what not all but also about the financial and economic choices. Isn't it just the substantive choices that lead to a worse country, which you want to run away from now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have mentioned six examples in my speech, and what is striking is that Mr Nijboer does not dare to go into any of these six examples. He does not dare to comment on the question of whether there was any administrative burden reduction. 'Cause there wasn't. With fake models, this government writes that it has achieved relief. And yes, the CDA is simply participating in the CPB's pass-through of the election program. We don't have a problem with that, but we think we can do better. We think things like LIV can be much better and that they're model driven. The PvdA raises the IACK in its programme in such a way that a marginal tax rate of almost 100% has been created for the sole earner. 100% load, that's the ultimate PvdA dream. It was in the cashier's account. That had nothing to do with equality or ideals anymore, but that had to do with the model working well. That you completely alienate the working class of the Netherlands because you want to do well in the model but don't want to talk about that there are people who pay 0% tax on their supplementary income and others who pay 100% tax on their supplementary income, is something the PvdA doesn't even ask themselves anymore. That is one of the most fundamental problems why people become cynical about politics and that were also a little bit on 15 March about certain parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u54	It's a big list of suspicions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yours. You got that right. You're a good man to summarize your own questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u56	As for the suspicions to the CPB, those models can really do better. The PvdA also criticizes this. As regards the administrative burden that is poorly measured, I have a lot of criticism of this personally, but I would like to point out that CDA Minister Verhagen was the biggest winner of his coalition at the time, that the CDA asked for these reports every time and that Mr Omtzigt, who is now making a lot of noise about purchasing power cards and I do not know what else, here in the Chamber might be the one who has asked the most for them. And then there are suspicions about the Prime Minister's action on MH17, which Mr Omtzigt starts with in this debate on accountability. It is a CDA action that runs away from the fundamental choices that the CDA is making in European debates, opportunistic and populist, here in fiscal debates, opportunistic and populist. It runs away from the actual choices it makes. More inequality in the Netherlands, less sustainability, bad for purchasing power and employment. And Mr. Omtzigt is trying to get out through suspicions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u57	I have to say, I've rarely been so touched by the word "suspects" around MH17. I'm gonna be very honest about that. I asked whether Russia has been asked for radar images for three years now, which means that there is good cooperation from Russia. That is a question that I would like to stress here. The same applies to Ukraine that has tapes that are not included in the investigation, dixit the Public Prosecutor's Office. If Mr Nijboer wants to take that off as suspicions and he doesn't want to ask those questions, I really have a problem with him here. I have also had some serious answers from the Prime Minister on the other issues that exist; geopolitical things are being done which are not always within the reach of the Netherlands but which are important to be resolved. Secondly, the marginal burden of burdens. Yeah, I also criticized the models when we were in the government. Think of the electric car that did very well in the models; sorry, the semi-electric car where the electric car is concerned there is still something to say about it with which 1.5 billion euros of tax money has been thrown away, with subsidies on the Mitsubishi Outlander. At that time, I was bothered by Minister Verhagen's policy. I have this criticism both when I am in the government and when I am in the opposition, because I think that every tax euro should be properly spent. I have not heard an answer from Mr Nijboer, who has now quickly sat down, to the question of why he himself introduced a tax rate on the sole earner who is now moving towards 100% and why he is pushing up the IACK even further in his election programme because this is doing well in the model. He doesn't give a single answer to how that works for equality. That's what I saw. I'll pass on those choices. We do not need to agree on the second and third points, but I am very curious if he wishes to make another comment on the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u58	Normally there is an interruption here and the questions are asked here. Mr Omtzigt now asks me these questions from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u59	It's about the questions about the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u60	You also asked other questions. You've been talking about the credit transfers. That's all in there. With us, inequality is decreasing. We are sure that families can combine more work and private life, and the IACK helps in this. We are indeed putting it into our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u61	I was actually expecting a comment on the MH17. I note that the word "suspect" is not withdrawn. I take note of that, I take note of the remark made by a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr Nijboer mentioned the flat tax. What does Mr Omtzigt think, given the comments made by Mr Nijboer, about the rumourous interview with the minister in the Dutch Financial Journal in which he says: "But I do not see the urge of any party to do so. The CDA still deserves some credit for its flat branch plan. Furthermore, I see only an increase in complexity"? Perhaps Mr Omtzigt can respond to Mr Nijboer's words through this question? I ask the Minister to respond to this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u63	I thought that was a decent quote from the minister. There are, moreover, more parties here who want to see a form of simplification. A simplification in theory is always many times simpler than a simplification in practice. It's very uncomfortable, also because of the income effects. So I understand that certain parties don't choose. The CDA does choose to do so, even if it sometimes has some redistributing effects. I have just set the example of the government itself. A single earner who goes from €22,000 to €32,000, so he earns a lot of extra money, will save less than €600 if he lives in a rental house with a rent of €600 in the Netherlands. It pays a marginal 95% tax. This is due to the IACK, the phasing out of all kinds of tax rebates and the phasing out of surcharges. The moment you choose to let that person have a little more of it, the inequality between someone with an income of €22,000 and someone with an income of €32,000 increases. We are not in favour of communist tax rates. We have therefore chosen this type of increase in inequality very consciously. And if you say very easily, as some political parties are doing here, in the presentation of the CPB that inequality is increasing, then we say: that was the intention, because since the austerity package in the Netherlands from the income of a minimum wage they have been paying an income tax of de facto 49% alone. They won't even make it in Cuba. It's okay to bring it down a little bit. It's okay to keep some of the money you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u64	Perhaps Mr Omtzigt can also respond to another example that has not yet been mentioned: the tax reduction for the elderly. This goes to €50 with an income of around €35,000 from €1,300. If you get an extra euro pension, from any kind of income, maybe from a small annuity, you're going to fall almost €1,300 on it. That's a marginal that belongs in the Guinness Book of Records. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt could take that example with him? I will also ask the Minister about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u65	That is exactly one of the interesting examples of things that the government intended to reverse in the coalition agreement. The government intended to phase it out more gradually. It was included in the household allowance, which was not introduced. So the government saw the problem and wanted to do something about it. In fact, it has stuck to the complexity of the payment system in the household allowance. I think this is an ideal example of something on which both the ministers and you and I agree. We agree on the theory, but the approach in practice has subsequently proved more rigid. So it was not the intention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u66	For your information, in the First Chamber, 50PLUS has tabled a motion to allow the reduction of the oldage discount to take place very gradually. This motion was also adopted with the support of the CDA. I understand from the Secretary of State that this point is high in the informant's file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u67	I do not know who is putting together the current informant's file, but I wish him, after the debate that took place here yesterday, an extraordinary success in building a good coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u68	Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u69	I was just getting started on the subject of information security. The lack of cyber security remains a problem. The Court of Auditors writes: "Not only the data of citizens and businesses must be properly protected, but also the systems themselves must be protected so that business operations can continue undisturbed. Otherwise, the granting of grants or benefits could be compromised or fines could no longer be collected. It must be prevented that hackers operate bridges and locks. Whether the government's systems are being held hostage, causing trials to stop and ransom to be paid." Those are shocking lyrics. But it is also about the privacy of citizens, for example in the Council of Justice or in the case of V and J in general. If there are hacks where data from individuals gets out on the street, the harmful effects on these individuals are dramatic. What steps does the government take to make cybersecurity top priority of the policy? More specifically, especially in potentially vulnerable ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of VWS as well as the Ministry of EZ, security measures in the field of IT are not in order. The systems that have been investigated concern systems that departments themselves say are critical systems, for example because burglaries into or leaking from these systems pose a major risk to the user. It's about criminal records of people. You're innocent until proven guilty, but if your entire file is on the street, it won't work that way anymore. But it is also possible that guilty criminals will escape the dance if their data is leaked. We must prevent this at all costs. The basic registration with foreign data is linked to the Basic Registration Persons. This is a drama file, on which money is spent but where no steps are taken. How do we ensure that this system becomes safe, just like the telebanking systems? The CDA welcomes the fact that the Court of Auditors is so keen on the issue of information security, because the problems can be socially destructive. The global attacks with ransomware are only just behind us. In the Netherlands we suffered relatively little from this, but the next attack may be with us. That's why the CDA wants more power from the cabinet. We don't want to wait another year to get an update showing what's going on. Is the government prepared to inform the Court of Justice within six months of the progress made in the field of information security and to report on this together with the Court of Auditors, for example in the Navy Note? The Court of Auditors itself also writes that it is willing to look at improvements in the ministries. I am also looking at the President of the Court of Auditors. In our view, this should not be a problem. Such a potential leak of all criminal records or of data at the Ministry of Health, including privacy-sensitive data from, for example, all doctors and nurses in the BIG register, can be very disruptive. I would like to refer to the OVV report on DigiNotar. Customs had almost shut down all imports and exports of this country because of the lack of order of information security. That would have meant an economic disaster for the Netherlands. I would like to make a commitment on this point. Finally, I come to a small problem with OCW. It is difficult to check where students live, but because of the loan system, that is also the only problem solved with the loan system. Another problem remains, namely the problem of paying back the student debt. For 3% of the number of debtors, we are talking about 23,000 people, there is no known address, especially when they live abroad. In case of late payment, these former students are not available for collection activities. How do we ensure that this problem is tackled and that tens of thousands of people avoid paying back their student debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u70	Before I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, I shall suspend the sitting for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u71	I call Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. This year, the Court of Auditors started the accountability with the passage that we live in a world in which fact-free politicians seem to play an increasingly important role. Such a Court of Auditors report is actually reports, because every budget is very accurately vetted and is a beacon of calm and solidity in these polarizing, political times. I thought that passage was well chosen, and I think it is also good politics. Looking back on the past few years, I see parties that were very far apart, PvdA and VVD, but which have started to work together on the basis of content in a difficult economic situation. We've been four years. If we look at how that has worked out, I note that many things still need to be better in the Netherlands, also in terms of policy, but that the country is much better on many fronts. The economic situation has improved. Public finances have improved and increased. They were in a real mess. The regulation of the banking sector has been addressed. I thought that was very important myself. There is more investment in sustainability. Unemployment, perhaps most importantly, is falling sharply, as it rose at the beginning of the crisis. This government policy has laid the foundations for necessary investment in the coming years, especially in public services, care for the elderly, sustainable economy, and education, by a new cabinet. I wish the country once again the same consensus can be found, in the sense that one cannot be locked up in polarising positions and facts-free politics, but that one comes out together. It's been a while. I wish the participants every success. I would like to speak in favour of two things today, first of all for ICT, we have been 17 years after 2000, and it is a miracle that I still have to make such a big point of it, but also for the humanity of public policy. I.T. first. The Court of Auditors writes a lot about this, about ICT problems in the Tax Administration and with the knowledge of the government, Mrs De Vries spoke about this too, but the problem is even wider than just the points raised by the Court of Auditors. ICT has become very important for the security of the country, cybersecurity, as well as people's data, privacy. I am also thinking of municipalities, semi-public institutions, health insurers and medical records. Very much is stored online, but what about security? How does the government protect privacy as a public good? This is perhaps one of the most important public goods in society. Is that sufficiently guaranteed? I myself wrote an initiative paper on online banking security. That's a very small part of that security, but everyone has a bank account, so everyone has to do with it. Is that okay? Is the public task sufficiently secure? It is about the ICT of the government and the services that can be improved. The Court of Auditors also writes a lot about this. The IRS is now working on the pre-filled report. We are allowed to praise things that are going well, because that is a nice system. You can fill out your report yourself. That is not what many countries do to us, even though we have a complicated tax system. In some countries it is easier to do it yourself, but it is nice that this can be done. On many fronts, however, it can be much better and more accessible. It is also about public knowledge about ICT projects. The Chamber issued a report on this issue in 2014. I've spent a year and a half researching it myself. We've made recommendations. Now we're three years away and here I am again. So there's not enough progress on this case yet. That's why I want to break a lance for doing more about ICT. It is also a bit of a implementation issue. Perhaps this missionary cabinet can do a little harder. The second main point is the approach of people. The government and the Chamber are jointly responsible for the implementation of very precise directives, laws and procedures. And deadlines, not to mention. They are very important: you have to respond on time, otherwise you will be punished. That is an approach that supposedly leads to a just outcome for everyone, in the vein of: we do the same for everyone and those procedures are secured for everyone. But the question then is, how does it work out in practice, with all the different regulations and bodies that people have to deal with. I mention the health insurance company that can ask this and the rent allowance that this is based on. The childcare allowance is subject to a different scheme. I also mention the tax authorities where you have to report them afterwards and the municipal regulations and the IZB payments that need to be made. Sometimes there are waivers. If you fill out one form once too late or wrong, or if you accidentally misjudge the annual income, then you're so on the blisters. You're gonna get huge recharges and sometimes huge fines. Collector's offices are being called in. That is not a good approach and it is not really a human approach. I would ask the Cabinet to do something about that. Mrs Schouten has also been pushed in. I know that she and my colleague, Mr Yücel, have been working on the unwound foot. That's the minimum of existence you really can't get under. As a creditor, you can't get past that. It's still a lot of work to do as a government. That's not good, and it's been going on for years. I know Mrs Schouten was working on that before I got into the Chamber. That was four and a half years ago. This shows that these processes, procedures, legislation, positions, departments, and I know what does not already play a role, are ultimately more decisive than the people who have had to deal with them for years. That's not good. I would therefore really like to express my support for changing an attitude of distrust towards people towards a position of trust, while at the same time punishing the crooks. That is the difficult thing; I realize it and I fully recognise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u73	It is a justified point by Mr Nijboer, but I would also like to highlight the other side. He acts like it's just hard. I made a mistake with my wife's tax returns once. According to the IRS, I hadn't given up enough income for her. I had no idea what it was, but it was a column I wrote myself. There was no bsn number. That column they had attributed to my wife instead of to me. I didn't give that up again. The following was striking. There was a little correspondence with the IRS. Then I got a phone number. I called and the case was handled in a very human way. I don't think they knew I was a MP, because otherwise it would have been a privilege.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm gonna take it for granted. At least it wasn't out of the conversation to finish. I also know the picture that Mr Nijboer sketches, but isn't it a mixed picture? I also know a lot of people at the IRS who do their job in a very human way. Then how do you unite these two worlds? How is it possible that things are going well in one case and wrong in the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr Dijkgraaf is, of course, right: it is not just sorrow and torment. I wouldn't want to keep that story, either. What I do point out is the general line of procedures to be followed and the number of bodies dealing with people, all interacting. I call it the concept of income. The surcharges affect the concept of income for the municipalities for all kinds of schemes, for example in the area of care if you need it. It's so complicated for people, sometimes they make a mistake by mistake. With one instance you can then consult, in the vein of: you still understand it well. That also helps a lot, because not everyone understands it as well. But if you're dealing with five or six institutions and you're making a misconception of income that affects all those schemes, you should be lucky if they all take the same attitude. This is my plea: to go out more of man and less of the procedures of the individual institute. That is also what the Scientific Council on Government Policy recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u77	I like that point. As long as we were corresponding, I was a little cranky and angry collecting all sorts of things and thinking: what kind of a weird system is that? The tax inspector probably thought, "Why doesn't he do this now?" The moment you just have human contact, wouldn't that be where the key is? Can we not ensure, without hiring 500,000 people, that there is more human contact? In the vein of: of course, if you have made a mistake, that must be correctable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes, I very much agree. Very much so. I come to the responsibility of the finance minister's documents, which we are discussing today. Those pieces are almost entirely devoted to the Tax Administration, and I understand that. The most serious deficiencies have been eliminated, but a number of additional shortcomings have been added, so the score is not yet too positive. Much remains to be done, because tax collection, like security, justice and defence, is one of the core tasks of the government, which is still under pressure if there are so many shortcomings. To the Court of Auditors, who always listens to this very carefully, Mr Visser and Mrs Giskens have been welcomed here by the President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to say that there are, of course, more areas in the area of finance which also deserve scrutiny. I call it equity policy or the risks that international monetary policy can have for the budget through DNB. They also receive attention in several partial reports, but this year the focus is very much on the Tax Administration. That is understandable, but I have been calling for attention for years to be paid to other tax expenditure, even if the economic situation improves. This may be less worrying in the budgetary debates, but it is a big money issue, and I would like to see that again in the years to come. Finally. I already indicated that the country's getting better, but there's still a lot to do. I am pleased that Mr Grashoff, as chairman of that committee, has just been called upon in the parliamentary inquiry to promote a broad concept of prosperity. It is not just about public finances and the effectiveness of policies, which are not easily measurable. It concerns more in life than money, income and purchasing power alone. I am pleased that the cabinet and the institutions that have to do so are prepared to make a welfare monitor as of next year. Then we can also have a broader debate and see how the Netherlands is doing on everything that is important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u79	I can ask anything from the Labour Party about the state of mental health care for children. You'd only have one child with suicidal thoughts and hear that the waiting list is eight months. It'll make you tense. You'd only have a temporary contract with your practical training, and no chance of a permanent contract. All things that may have something to do with that humanity. Things that the PvdA might be worried about in the opposition again. Perhaps she did the same in the government. What does Mr Nijboer now think of the fact that the Minister of Finance, the head of the cabinet, said two days ago in Het Financieele Dagblad, "I saved the country"? Do you feel at home, Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u80	I don't think he's... Minister Dijsselbloem isn't exactly known as someone who wears a Superman suit. At least I've never seen that, and I've known him for a lot of years. What he said in that interview, to be honest, I also argued here in other words: we have bridged differences between two parties in an economic crisis, which was great. Those differences were huge, too. The Netherlands is much better in many areas now than four years ago and it has not been helped by opportunistic politicians. However, I am very much in agreement with Mrs Leijten and I have also supported the debate on the ggz in order to do something about it and, in the case of proposals in the area of care for the elderly, I and her colleague Marijnissen draw attention to the fact that a great deal still needs to be done. I've never argued otherwise. I have put that forward in all the budget debates, and every time I have fought for additional investments in sustainability, in education and now in care, where needs are great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u81	If you look through an accountant's glasses at society, find economic growth important and say: we have to prune to bloom, then the people who are most vulnerable bleed. Then you would have expected the Labour Party to stop doing so when she was in the government, but I have seen in recent years that the Labour Party was keen to reduce, for example, the general law on special medical care. It's the image that matters to me. Isn't it strange that the Minister of Finance, who is in fact PvdA's house, says that he saved the country at a time when the country is doing well economically, when people are not doing so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u82	A lot of people are doing well, but too many people aren't doing well either. However, I find this very easy from Mrs Leijten. One of the most important things for people's well-being is having a job. Unemployment rose as a result of the economic crisis. He's really walking down there right now. This also has to do with the fact that Mrs De Vries also spoke about this with responsible government policy, with the sleaze going to hell when it is very difficult. If you let it go, it's gonna get a lot worse. Of these, the most vulnerable are always the victims. I agree with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u83	A youth who doesn't get a permanent contract anymore, but only those flex-flut contracts. People with practical training who don't get a chance at permanent work. People who, if they are in poverty for more than two years, do not actually come out of it. It is not as bright as "budgetary figures are in order." You know what I missed today, Mr. Chairman? I think the plea for a human government is very good and I'd like to hang out with the PvdA, probably in the opposition. We have been doing this for years, like the Christian Union, to ensure that people do not get into debt because of government policy. What, however, are we doing with the money that is now on the shelf? There is 2.9 billion left and there are needs in society. Would the Labour Party support it, for example, to put that into class reduction and work pressure reduction in education, so that our primary school children can simply receive good education from August and September, by teachers who want to give it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mrs Leijten, the interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u85	This is a debate of accountability and Mrs Leijten is well aware of what we want to invest in: in care for the elderly, in education, in less workload for teachers, in MBO, in salaries for primary school teachers, in a sustainable economy. We have all had that passed on, and that has all been included in the electoral programmes. That is possible, and that is what we are talking about today, because public finances have been put in order. That would not have been possible if we had left everything to be done. Then there should have been a lot of intervention by now. Then there would have been a debate about what we are cutting back on. This is also part of government participation and responsibility, at least as far as the PvdA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr Nijboer is now getting a bit on his chest that it has gone so well over the past four to five years, but the PvdA has of course been severely punished by the voters and went from 38 to 9 seats. In other words, the population, the people outside, the loyal supporters of the past apparently have something against the policy of the PvdA over the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u87	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u88	The question is: what lessons does the PvdA draw for the future from the policy that has been pursued over the past five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u89	Something went wrong if that's how you lose the election. That doesn't have one cause. I wish I had known one cause in advance. Then perhaps I could have done something about it myself and we would have liked to win the election. Mr Van Dijck is right that there are people who have disagreed with our policy. But I stand to take responsibility in a difficult time. That's what the PvdA stands for. We've always done that. I think that is an important value, including from our party. I'm behind that and I'm convinced of it. Of course you make mistakes and people are angry. In the care of the elderly, a lot of people are disliked about how fast it was. I understand that, too. In Groningen, where I live, people are very angry about how the gas extraction has been handled. I don't think we did that right. I have said this before in these debates. There's been some real mistakes. Mr Van Dijck is right about that. You always do that when you take responsibility. I'll tell you what. It's always easier to sit aside and scream that things have to be different and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u90	Of course, you can also think: where did economic policy go wrong? Economists, including the PVV, have warned the cabinet: do not raise taxes by 9 billion in the depths of the crisis. That's just stupid. Brussels had to do that, because we had to get below 3% in one year. I get that, but it's just stupid policy to do that. As a result, unemployment suddenly rose by 150,000 people. So first, you put 150,000 people into unemployment with your policy, and now you're glad they're getting back to work slowly. Is that the lesson now? You would expect a little more lessons to be learned in the context of the reflection, which I also asked of Mrs De Vries, on where the mistakes were made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u91	There was a huge financial crisis. This led to enormous unemployment, not only in the Netherlands but everywhere in Europe and also in other countries. It had to be dealt with. We had to act. You can't solve that in one year or two years. If you look at where we are on the labour market four years later, you will see that unemployment is actually falling. I agree with Mrs Leijten on flex contracts. Mrs Leijten knows that, too. Lodewijk Asscher has strong views on this and takes initiatives to tackle it. But unemployment is actually falling. It's really going much better. The solution of the PVV walls around the Netherlands, from the euro, everyone unemployed in Rotterdam, at Schiphol Airport and anyone who does anything with international work would be a disaster for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Nijboer spoke about care for the elderly. He said that many of the older people were angry after all. Of course, that doesn't really help you much and that it also happened quickly. At the time, the Court of Auditors warned against the introduction of the WMO too soon. The Court of Auditors was quite right to do that. My question to Mr Nijboer is whether part of the loss of the Labour Party and, let me look at the Prime Minister, of the VVD has nothing to do with the major cuts in care for the elderly. It is striking that in the election it was suddenly about extra money for care for the elderly, at the VVD first, Rutte with 2 billion, and also at the PvdA. If one had thought about it earlier and anticipated the consequences, one would probably have used the Stevens earlier and avoided a major blow from the cuts in care for the elderly. I can't wait to see how you're gonna react to that. I will ask the rulers this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u93	That is what we have done. I was as surprised as Mr Van Rooijen about the VVD's attitude to add 2 billion in one go. The PvdA allocated 400 million extra for healthcare once in the years before and 100 million extra in January. That didn't all happen on its own. The PvdA has made a real commitment to this, Martin van Rijn from the cabinet and we as a group. So the Stevens was used to it before, but I don't think that's become known everywhere. So thank you for the opportunity to explain that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u94	But my question was whether, looking back, even with the Court of Auditors' warning at the time, it should not have been much more cautious, much more limited and much more gradual. It's gone too fast. You say that we have also corrected a little. But you're actually admitting that the blow was far too fast and too big. The VVD is just coming up with that now. You're a little early, I understand. We know that from the Cabinet. If you look back on that, wouldn't that have been a wrong decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u95	So we have already allocated 400 million for this and then hundreds of millions more, precisely because otherwise the blow would have hit too hard. That's exactly what we did. We haven't been blind to what's happening in society for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u97	But do you think more needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u98	Oh, yeah. I have tabled a motion with Mrs Marijnissen to ensure that additional funds are provided for care for the elderly in the spring paper which is due tomorrow. If I listen to it a little carefully, the parties that formed at the time and perhaps tomorrow will agree. As far as I am concerned, too, we should reduce our own risk by next year. That is more sensitive, because the VVD is very opposed to that and the CDA hesitates a bit. But if we can achieve that kind of thing with 50PLUS or with other parties, we'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. Many political followers have focused on the formation of a new cabinet these days. That question is understandable to many people. The attention to the question of what results the cabinet has achieved and for Accountability Day there remains how shall I put it nicely? Roughly at the rear. However, there is a striking agreement between the two questions. We do not really know the answer to both questions. At the formation, the answer is decided in the future. At some point, that will become clear. For the results of government policy, we have to look at the past. Then it turns out that this offers even less clarity. The President of the General Court has rightly pointed out to us that we do not really know enough about many policies whether it is effective, what the outcome is and whether we can achieve the best possible result with tax money. I'd like to go into that later. Fortunately, there are things we do know. One of them is that the budget has been put in order. At the start of the cabinet, a budget deficit of almost 2% was foreseen for 2016. Now there appears to be even a small surplus. After a number of years, in which gas extraction has not yet been enough but has declined significantly, gas revenues are a much smaller part of the rich budget, a total of only 2 billion, while some 10 billion had been estimated. Furthermore, public debt was not 70%, but 62% of our gross domestic product. In such a situation, the cabinet deserves first of all a compliment. We've got things straightened out. You can see that the economy has come to steam and unemployment is falling. It has demanded far-reaching measures to achieve this. Those measures have called for a lot of people, but I think it is good to continue to stress that sustainable public finances and also a healthy space up to the 3% deficit.................................................................................................................................................................. Even in spite of the Spring paper, which is reported to have some setbacks, the prospects for the coming years are and remain good. For that, the outgoing cabinet deserves a compliment. At the same time, this places a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of a new cabinet, because putting it in order is one, keeping it in order is two. Just when things are going well, it is even more complicated to prevent us from going crazy and, in the next crisis, we have to come to the conclusion that late maintenance has not taken place and that we have allowed the reins to be celebrated too much. Public finances are also well organised in a different way. It is hardly a surprise in the Netherlands anymore, which says something about the performance of the budget, that the legality of the budget is excellently in order. More than 99.5% of public expenditure is legitimate. As long as that goes well, there is very little attention to it, but that money is controlled in the way we have agreed is extremely important and we should never take it for granted. It's not gonna happen on its own. Everyone who contributes to this deserves our compliments. But what is happening with the money, which we are rightfully spending, and what we are getting in return, is far too little of that. The Court of Auditors itself gives a number of examples of this, such as appropriate education and Minister Asscher's job plans. These are policy areas where hundreds of millions, sometimes billions of euros are spent a year, when we do not really know what the result is that we get back and whether the results we see are the result of policies or changes in the world. Of course you'll never know 100%. The contribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to peace in the Middle East is difficult to capture in statistics. But there are ways to improve that. I know that the Minister for Finance also attaches great importance to this. Steps are already being taken, for example on the improvement of policy reviews. As far as I am concerned and as far as the D66 Group is concerned, much more attention needs to be paid to policy evaluation. Colleagues have already paid a lot of attention to this. The Study Group on Budget Space also calls on the Cabinet to provide more insight into the quality of the policy. That would be a good thing. This can be done, for example, by standardising policy information, as the General Court does, and there must also be one language. I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. The cabinet should also experiment a little more, rather than be so reluctant. For more confidence in the Participation Act, try to embrace those experiments and learn which policies work. I also have another suggestion today. Why is it not standardized for every new legislative proposal and every major, substantial policy proposal to include an evaluation paragraph, indicating what the objectives are, when it is evaluated, how a zero measurement takes place, when it is discussed, and how we are going to monitor whether the policy also has the desired effect? I think that's wise. Now, for example, the Regulatory Instructions for experimental schemes only prescribe an evaluation paragraph. We would really like to include this in any legislative proposal and any major policy proposal. Then, of course, we can look at what is most appropriate for each proposal. A large legislative proposal is, of course, quite different from a technical amendment, but I think it would be wise to simply introduce such an evaluation paragraph. I'm curious to see how the cabinet stands on this. I am thinking of tabling a motion on this subject in the second term, and not on my own, I say with a slanted eye looking at my colleague Mr Dijkgraaf. Mr President, you yourself recalled the V100, the initiative of Mr Duisenberg last week. Then 100 people who experience the consequences of policy in practice were invited to the Chamber to help us ask meaningful questions. I am extremely pleased with the proceeds of that day and with the great commitment. I look forward to the answer of the cabinet to all the questions that have been passed on. One question I would like to highlight today. The cabinet indicates that it wants to achieve an average of 1.5% energy savings per year in accordance with the energy agreement. The measures put in place give an idea of the way in which the cabinet intends to achieve this. However, as the authors of the question rightly point out, there is no understanding of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures taken. What effect has already been achieved? I would like to put that question from the V100 to the cabinet today. I would like to add the question as to whether there is something more to say about what instrument is most effective in achieving the energy savings targets: subsidies, tax deductions, self-regulation or legislation? All these instruments are used with often limited vision of their effectiveness. What's the most effective thing? And yes, I understand that the cabinet will say that a mix is needed, but I want to go a spade deeper today, all it is because one of the biggest challenges is what we stand for as a country. The General Court has given us a great deal of information on public expenditure. The audit of the General Court of Auditors, a High College of State, is a great asset. It is a strong, independent institution that puts policies and their impact along the measuring bar. It keeps the cabinet sharp as well as the Chamber itself. The Court appears to have an imperfection in information security. As I understand it, there is a vigorous response to this. There is a rather special budgetary relationship with the General Court. There is still a heavy task ahead of us. I am concerned about what this will mean for future work. Of course, we may expect an institution that assesses the efficiency of the government to organise itself as efficiently as possible, but I wonder whether the task is not going to be too tight by now. Since 2012, the Court of Auditors has been warning about the consequences and in the last budget, the President does not even mention the mandate as justified. Those are big words that should also be of concern to the Minister of Finance. I see that there has been consultation with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who deals with the High Colleges of State, but that does not seem to have led to a solution. I would therefore ask the Minister of Finance to speak to the Court of Auditors on the reality of the outstanding task and to inform us about it before the debate on the Spring paper. I'm not looking for blank checks, but I'm looking for accident prevention. It would be truly regrettable if we were to find that important investigations which the Chamber wants to consider are the purchase of new submarines, and so there is no longer any possibility of further investigation. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. I come to the security of personal data. This year, too, the Court of Auditors has examined many issues. One of the points that the Court of Auditors specifically brings to our attention is that security of personal data. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that the result is disappointing. The security of personal data of Dutch citizens is not yet in place in a large number of ministries. As I have just said, this also applies to the Lower House itself. That is a worrying situation, but what I find even more worrying is that the Court of Auditors, when presenting the documents here in this Chamber, found that a number of departments simply do not recognise the problems. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, Health, Welfare and Sport and the Ministry of Defence were specifically mentioned. Mr Visser rightly pointed out that 'problems cannot be solved until they are recognised'. I think that's a truth like a cow. In the knowledge that this is a very important subject, I have been extremely surprised by this passage. I therefore have a number of questions for the cabinet. Does the cabinet simply want to acknowledge today that what the Court of Auditors finds is a problem in all ministries? Can it guarantee that all the ministries will be working on this in a speedy manner? When can the Chamber hear more about this? These are not the least ICT systems; they are critical systems used in inspections, online banking, fines and subsidies. It seems to me that vigorous action is needed on the concerns of the Court of Auditors. The Court also looks ahead and calls for specific attention to be paid to human resources policy. Why does the government lack certain knowledge and manpower? What are there gaps in? This subject is not a hopeful part of the Court's documents. The government doesn't know exactly who it has in its home or what staff it needs in the future. This is becoming even more pressing now that unemployment, fortunately, is falling and the labour market is getting tighter. The UWV warns that economic growth will lead to a shortage of staff that may even damage economic growth. The government also has a renewal and rejuvenation challenge when it comes to its workforce. I'm really seeing a fight for talent. The government must be and remain an attractive employer. The Empire will have to do a lot to keep its staff fully up to date. An important question is therefore how to seduce people to work in the government. I know from my own experience that the government is a wonderful employer. However, the strategic staff policy could use some reinforcement, as the problems of the Tax Administration also showed. Mr Omtzigt pointed that out. I am referring here to what I think was perhaps the most upsetting moment of the last political year, namely the debate on this issue. The Secretary of State reassured me during that debate by saying that there was a nice strategic staffing plan, but had to acknowledge in the next debate that he had said so, but that there was no staff plan at all. Then you've got work to do! What action will the cabinet take to maintain the quality of the staff and to ensure that we keep the well-functioning state service we currently have? The IRS I mentioned already is one of the three care babies. Unfortunately, together with the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of Defence, the Tax Administration is included in the list of shortcomings in the documents of the General Court. Surely it must be painful for the Minister of Finance to see that the number of deficiencies is the greatest in his ministry. I'd like to get a reaction to that. It is still unclear for the Court of Auditors as to the impact of the completely out of control departure scheme at the Tax Administration on the continuity of tax collection. This is worrying not only because tax collection is crucial for the financing of our public expenditure, from teachers to care, but also because it does something about tax morality if tax collection is not going well. I therefore ask the Prime Minister once again today for the explicit confirmation that the continuity of tax collection is currently guaranteed. That is crucial; as far as I am concerned, there must be no doubt about it. The Court also looked at the legality of the departure scheme in the Tax Administration. The Court concludes that the departure scheme is indeed legitimate; let me sum it up in my own words. Unwishable, but lawful; it is something. According to the Court of Auditors, this is mainly due to the fact that the General Government Officials' Regulations (ARAR), on which the departure scheme is based, give so much room for manoeuvre. So it's not because that departure scheme was designed so well, but because the basic rules are so general and unclear that what you do with it is soon legal. Thus, the departure scheme may have complied with the letter of the law, but it did not comply with the spirit of the law. The suggestion is therefore to adapt the ARAR to the issue of departure arrangements. Is that what the Cabinet is planning? That's what I'm asking the Minister of Finance. Improvements have also been made in the Ministries of Security, Justice and Defence. As with the Tax Administration, there are still serious shortcomings. That is a point of profit, for which I would like to compliment you. However, much is not in order at these VVD ministries. At Defence, 25 out of 71 units still do not meet the operational employability standard. Almost one in three, one third of the military force, is not operational in case of emergency. The Court rightly states that only extra money is not the solution, because even in 2016 money that was available for investment remained on the shelf 142 million euros, because Defence was not well organised. I would also like a reflection from the Minister on this point. I see Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u101	So far, I've agreed with everything, but not right now. Mr Van Weyenberg says that only extra money will not solve this, because there is not enough investment and more could have been invested. However, employability is something else, namely maintenance of existing equipment, the question of whether there are bullets at all and whether there are any components to make a helicopter fly. So these are not so much investments. Investment involves new equipment. So isn't getting the existing equipment even just going to require more money, because otherwise it won't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u102	Sure, but I didn't want to argue, I don't think I have argued that there is no need for extra money. I know that Mr Dijkgraaf attaches great importance to this. We are also making more money available in our election programme. My point is that I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that this is not enough and that we must also take major steps in the organisation of the armed forces in order to achieve the maximum impact of these fiscal euros, including on the employability of our armed forces. I also think that all those who risk their lives for us are more than entitled to do so, but Mr Dijkgraaf agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u103	It was precisely the intention of my interruption to get this more precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u104	I was hoping that Mr Dijkgraaf and I could find each other on this point. At the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Court still finds five shortcomings in 2016. This multifaceted ministry is simply too extensive and complex to get it well organized. Unfortunately, the cabinet has reacted rather conveniently to the motion of the First Chamber on preparations for the transfer of police management to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That would be a good step, both in the state and in law, but also in order to get this mega-ministry back to administration. Those three organizations, the Tax Administration, Defence and Security and Justice, are the three most important worry children of the Empire. I find it particularly worrying that the Court of Auditors writes about the Ministry of Security and Justice that the pace of improvement can be improved. I think that's quite a charge. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that today. We have seen that the three serious deficiencies have fortunately been eliminated, but that the total number of imperfections has increased in 2016. Multiannually there is still a decline, but this one year is a one-off peak in my opinion and not the beginning of a trend break. My question to the cabinet is what it is going to do to ensure that next year we see another decline, that the downward trend of previous years continues and that attention is not going to slacken. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, on Accountability Day we also received the Monitor Sustainable Netherlands, a taste of the Monitor Brede Welvaart, which will be published from next year; I also see Mr Grashoff sitting in the banks. The contents of the monitor also show the importance of the monitor. A lot of indicators are red. Our economy uses too much raw materials, natural resources and polluting fuels. The Netherlands emits too much CO and dangles with Malta and Luxembourg when it comes to producing renewable energy at the bottom of the list of countries. So there is still a lot of work to be done here for a new cabinet to get the Netherlands on track to comply with the agreements of the Paris climate agreement. Much remains to be done for this, but I would appreciate it if the cabinet would respond to the conclusion from the monitor this year on Princess Day, next year's budget. Could the cabinet agree to that? I'm rounding up. This is most likely the last Accountability debate of the current cabinet. The economy and the budget are much better off than at the start. Nevertheless, the annual report and the accountability study show that much remains to be improved. In any case, I would like to thank the Members of the Court of Auditors and their staff for all their research. I hope that the cabinet will work on the recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u105	We all know that D66 is the loudest when it comes to more money for education. Now this accountability shows that 2.4 billion has gone to appropriate education, but we do not know whether this has led to additional provision for the children who need it. Accountability also shows that we do not know at all whether the 1.2 billion extra per year for education is devoted to the quality of teachers or to the maintenance of the roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u106	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u107	How does D66 feel about billions being thrown into education without knowing its effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u108	The proposal for appropriate education came from the cabinet. I share Mr Van Dijck's concern that its effects are very difficult to measure. I am also pleased that Mr Van Dijck notes that we are always shouting loudly when it comes to smaller classes and more room for teachers. I'm glad this happened. That shows that sometimes loud shouting can also be done with content, I say with a wink to Mr Van Dijck. As far as I am concerned, this is an incentive to continue to invest heavily, but it is also an incentive to look at how we see expenditure. I do have one warning. I really do not want to go back to the time of ticking lists, long checks and administrative distrust because we in The Hague think we know better what is good for a school than the teachers and the school boards. Yes, I want more insight, but I absolutely do not want to go back to the situation where the emphasis on bureaucracy was more important than trust in the professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u109	The disadvantage of the lumpsum system is that you throw 1.2 billion over the wall and say: boys do something about the quality. If you look at that a year later, it turns out that the teachers' salaries have gone down, the classes have grown and so on; I mentioned the list. It is unclear what really happened to quality. So, before D66 calls for more money for education and gets it negotiated, does it not make sense to set out the goals for which that money should be spent so that we can measure later on whether it has been realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u110	I sympathize with Mr Van Dijck in the search for better monitoring and visibility. But once again, let us not go back to the idea that we here in The Hague know exactly what a teacher or a school board should do. I would like to look together with Mr Van Dijck for ways to do this right, but I do not want to go back to some sort of accountability and settlement culture. However, I would like to make the point that, as far as we are concerned, this does not alter the fact that more teachers and smaller classes are important, that more janitors are very important and that more space is very important for the teacher. Let us together ensure that we get a better view, but this is only an incentive, as far as I am concerned, to call for even more, Mr Van Dijck, for better education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. At first glance, this accounting debate seems to be a debate on figures, a debate on billions of euros. It seems obvious, therefore, that we, as financial spokesmen, are holding this debate. As auditors, we look at the organisation of the government and the financial reporting. Then we see that more than 99% of the money has been lawfully collected and spent and that the number of deficiencies in the departments has been limited to 36. Then it is good that a cabinet responds to the problems in those departments of Defence, EZ and Finance, and the Tax Administration, and indicates how information security can be improved and how more investment can be made in technical and financial staff. However, this debate should be far more important than it is now, because it is more than just the question of whether taxpayers' money is being properly spent. The political question is: what do we really want to achieve, what were the objectives of the cabinet and what have they been achieved? The President of the General Court, Arno Visser, sitting in the back of the room, used the story of Madame Bovary in his presentation. Emma Bovary gets in a carriage with a man other than her husband and the curtains are closing. What's going on? That's up to the reader's fantasy. Those who fantasized that exciting things were happening behind the curtain, wanted the book banned. According to Arno Visser, we have to pull the curtains away because speculation in politics doesn't help. The use of public funds must be transparent. There must be openness about this; there must be no speculation about what is happening behind closed curtains. I would like to see this debate as a debate on the accountability of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. I want to look not only at last year's technical review, but also at what has happened in four years for second reasons. Firstly, this accountability is no longer an interim report, but a final report. The cabinet is ready; how did this cabinet do? Secondly, I would like to highlight the importance of setting targets. It still doesn't work out. This also means that this cabinet has left the curtains on the windows of the cheek. The mission of the cabinet was "to ensure that the Netherlands comes solidly and socially out of the crisis." In recent years, public finances have been put in order as a priority. That was done and I congratulate the cabinet on that. But at what cost? It is unknown, says the Court of Auditors. The Court states that we do not know very well what the negative consequences of the cuts are for people and businesses in the country. Departments barely keep track of effects. Has there been effective work, or has the service been lost? We don't know. The Court states that the Cabinet and the Chamber show a modest interest in policies which they themselves have initiated. I think the reasons for this are different. An important reason is that the Empire pays the bill while the responsibility for implementing policies is at a lower level. This applies, for example, to all decentralisations in recent years. In the case of the WMO, youth care, the labour market and nature policy, the direction was given away without the need to clarify in advance exactly what had to be achieved. Can the cabinet indicate how decentralisation has helped improve care for the elderly and youth, a fairer labour market and more nature? Or was it mainly the figures on the financials that played the leading role? I'd like to hear a response. This separate, shared or delegated responsibility can also be seen in education. Other colleagues have already talked about it. We are spending 2.4 billion for students who need additional support, but we have no idea whether that money will actually reach those students. Originally, savings had to be made, but gradually it became clear that this could not be done without damage. Now we don't know. There are more children at home for a long time and there are far more exemptions from compulsory education than to adapt the appropriate education. What happened here, what is to be learned from this and what was the objective? I have read with interest the questions the V100 have drawn up. The V100 are the 100 people from society who, on the initiative of Pieter Duisenberg, have studied the accounts. It's a wonderful initiative. What strikes me is that these people from practice often ask the same question: what did the government really want? They asked very specific questions: how exactly should sector plans contribute to better job opportunities for people in the labour market, how should the Action Plan for 50+ provide more work for older people, how should measures contribute to reducing people's poverty and debt problems, and how did legislation and regulation help a fairer labour market? In all these cases, what exactly were the objectives? We can see that there are few concrete objectives, particularly in the social field. It seems to be primarily about good intentions: we have to do something and then we do something. We want to, but we don't exactly define what we want to achieve. The targets remain behind the curtain, so that real accountability is not possible. On the green terrain, the opposite seems to be the case. In this area, we have quantified objectives, such as international agreements, European directives or the energy agreement. We know what we want to achieve, but we also need to know how and whether we are achieving the objectives. That's hard to figure out from the cabinet's responsibilities. Here it is not the targets that remain behind the curtain, but the effects of policies that are hidden. We need to remove the curtains. The Court of Auditors makes proposals and the cabinet also takes initiatives. These are mainly about more policy evaluations and standardisation of data between different authorities and bodies. They are, you might say, curtains of ignorance. No one will object to us moving them aside. But do we, as politicians, dare to make targets so concrete that we can also be reckoned with? Do we dare to draw honest conclusions ourselves when objectives are not met and to account for them? This is about political curtains, sometimes smoke curtains. Moving them aside requires political courage. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. It is therefore difficult to draw up a final report from the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, simply because the accountability documents give too little insight into what the objectives were and what was achieved. For the first time we have involved the Monitor Sustainable Netherlands in this debate, as a stepping stone to the Monitor Brede Welvaart, which will be made annually from next year onwards. This will be an important tradition in order to ensure that the political debate is not just about financial figures but also about what we consider socially desirable. I have two comments to make in advance. The planning agencies indicate three societal themes for the 2018 exploration: the allocation of time, the food supply and the transition to a circular economy. Mrs De Vries also spoke about it. If these are the choices, GroenLinks would give priority to the circular economy, especially in view of the very strong objectives we have in this area. Can the cabinet indicate how the themes are defined? It seems rather strange to me if we leave this entirely to the planning agencies. My second comment concerns the indicators that the planning agencies are going to use for the Broad Prosperity Monitor. The planning agencies are in line with the international debate on the indicators to be used, but I see a gap at one point. It is important for the survival of people that they have buffers, capacity. Capital and debt positions are therefore an important indication of people's sense of well-being and security. That is why they are also used internationally when it comes to broad prosperity, but not in the design of the planning agencies. For the time being, they're just looking at income relationships. I think this should be corrected. In fact, the same applies to indicators that say something about poverty. Does the cabinet agree with me? Can this be included in the assignment to the planning agencies? I'll get to the final report after all. In any case, the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor and the other figures of the CBS and planning agencies give some insight into the social and green performance of the cabinet. The monitor gives a picture of the quality of life on three levels: here and now in the Netherlands, but also later and elsewhere in the world. The general picture is that the quality of the Netherlands is good, but that we exploit interen on the future and abroad. We are a rich and prosperous country. We were, and we're gonna stay. There are some negative developments. Inequality is increasing, both trend-wise and over the past four years. How does the Cabinet judge this? People feel uncertainty about their socio-economic position. Structural unemployment is high. The share of flex contracts is increasing, while in the Netherlands it is already very high compared to other countries. This trend has not been reversed by the cabinet. What is the government's opinion on this? It is striking that many people in our country feel discriminated against compared to other countries and that this has even deteriorated in recent years. Does the cabinet see a relationship with the increased social polarisation? Does the Cabinet see a relationship with the failing integration policy? The Court of Auditors is very critical of this. The second level is about later. The interen on the future has to do with our natural capital. The main indicator is greenhouse gas emissions. In the monitor, the signals are on red. Emissions are still high compared to other countries. The share of renewable energy is rising marginally, as CBS announced yesterday. I acknowledge that the cabinet and Minister Kamp have taken steps forward in the energy agreement, but the pace is too slow. A subsequent cabinet will have to set strong targets and step up the policy pace. I'd like a response. The third level concerns the impact of us on other countries, poorer countries. Operating in these countries is most worrying in terms of indicators in the monitor. We still spend relatively much on development cooperation, but the trend is very much down. All the other signals are red. We import a lot of raw materials and biomass, at the expense of, for example, food supplies in low-developed countries. The trade and import of energy, biomass and minerals shows that the Netherlands still has a long way to go towards a sustainable and circular economy. To sum up, our prosperity here and now is at the expense of the future and of countries elsewhere in the world. I would like a response, especially since the cabinet failed to respond to the monitor. Why didn't the Cabinet do this? Finally. Public finances have been put in order, according to the Court of Auditors, but it is unknown at what price. My conclusion is that the austerity targets have been met, which was also the priority, but a green and social price has been paid for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u113	I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. I saved the country, said the Minister of Finance last Monday in The Financial Daily. A country where 400,000 children grow up in poverty. Poverty in recent years grew from 634,000 to 812,000 people from Rutte. A poverty that deepened. A country in which the number of flex contracts is increasing and the proportion of fixed contracts is falling, in which people with practical training are more likely to have to deal with a flex contract that does not offer the prospect of a permanent job. Only 16% of them will eventually get a job. And people with insecure jobs do not have access to those training budgets that are so well-intentioned; that was one of the comments of the 100 citizens who were here in the Chamber. Saying you saved the country, while there is no security in the labour market for young people. A country in which you as a child or younger person with mental problems are placed on a seriously long waiting list. And that doesn't help with suicidal thoughts or eating disorders. If you make it worse, you're gonna prolong the trouble for life. There are also problems in the classroom. Teachers can't do their job anymore. The classes are too full, the working pressure is too high. And if you're young, why don't you wait ten or fifteen years on a place? These are four problems of youth after this cabinet. Then you can sit and laugh and say that you saved the country, but if you don't give the people who make the future of this country opportunities, you won't save a country. It looks like there's money left in the budget, but that money really needs society. Saving a country is not done in order with accounting, but by organizing coherence and providing perspective, security and security, by good police in the area and not by any more cuts over the market, which will shut down even more police stations. Saving a country is not about the bullshit but about cohesion, about giving people the opportunity to get to know each other, about giving people the security of work and income, because everyone knows that work is much more than bread on the shelf. Work gives you self-esteem and it challenges you. It gives you dignity. But if this job is insecure and you move from temporary contract to temporary contract, it'll do something to you, with your certainty. The gap between rich and poor is growing. The gap between healthy and ill or chronically ill is growing. The opportunities for children to grow through education seem to be cut off. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet with Dijsselbloem as an accountant is in line with the attack on the organised solidarity of the last cabinet in a row. "Every man for himself" instead of "we do it together." And then say you saved the country. Saved the country, because the government debt is falling and the economy is growing, but the question is which social bill we're shifting. Public money must lead to good policies for people. In fact, where the expenditure is lawful, the amounts have been transferred to the correct bank accounts..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Take the education. It is a wonderful idea to let children, all children, including those with disabilities, those who need support, go to school with each other. But what do we see happening? We do not know at all where the EUR 2.5 billion we are spending on this will remain. We know that there is going to school together, that there is appropriate education, but we see that the number of students in the register that needs support is falling. We see special schools closing down. I call the St. Maartenschool in Nijmegen and Den Bongerd in Oss. We have such good intentions with appropriate education, but we don't know where the money is. We know that there are more children at home and that special education closes the doors. Something's going wrong here, right? I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to make a personal commitment to this and to ensure that, as long as we have not mapped this out, the special schools that I have just mentioned and the many dozens that still exist are not closed down. After all, equal opportunities for children, that is what we all want! And yet the education inspector sees that they are decreasing. Children with parents who have had practical training receive school advice other than children with parents who have had higher theoretical education. One student is taught better than the other. The quality of education varies widely. Worried! In a country that has been saved, shouldn't factors such as where you were born, who your parents are, and in which neighborhood the school is, determine your future? Primary school's having a hard time. We have seen here the many masters and teachers who demand that they be listened to. They want their salaries to be equal, but they also want their classes to be smaller. Now we have money left. There was nothing we could do in the debate on the teachers' workload, because it was formed, it was on the information table and there was no money. There is no formation table at the moment, but there is a missionary chamber. And yes, there's money. Will we release EUR 0.5 billion today to ensure that it reaches the classes in August and September, which can reduce them or ensure that teachers receive a better reward? I'm going to make that proposal. The cabinet presents nice figures about tax revenues, the profits of companies have increased, which means more, but the collection of all the taxes due is not self-evident. The tax administration is needed, he must have enough human resources and modern ICT at his disposal. Unfortunately, the opposite is the case. Since the Secretary of State has conceived the plan to let 5,000 out of 30,000 people go, the Tax Administration is no longer sure that he can carry out his core tasks. Again: the service is not sure if it can carry out its core tasks! It's too crazy for words to jeopardize the collection of taxpayers' money, isn't it? Can the Prime Minister guarantee here that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u115	I think I have come a long way with Mrs Leijten, I may fully agree with her on next year's spending, but I still have a practical question. Is the Accountability debate, the debate in which we are talking about last year's budget and what has been done, the right time to propose it? Does the tabling of such amendments or motions no longer fit in much with the debate on the Spring Paper, the debate we are having in a few weeks' time and which is also a guiding factor in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u116	Sure, that's a moment too. But if the needs in society are high, you say "the housekeeping books are in order and we have money left" and that's it, then I don't think that's a good signal either. I will also propose that the 1.8 billion left over from the care payments should not be returned to the general budget but retained for care. That is where we also see great needs. I believe that we, as politicians, should also appeal to this. So yes, the debate on the Spring Paper may be the time when we set it aside, but I would like to ask here that what is left of last year should be transferred to this year for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u117	Okay. I shall look forward to that proposal. The question of what went well and what did not go well in the past year is at issue in the debate on accountability. Mrs Leijten is also quite critical of certain points, which I understand very well, given her political tendencies. But I am used only to making proposals for the budget when dealing with the spring note, the autumn note and the budget. This is not the time to change the budget. Since we are very in agreement on the substance of the matter, it would be a shame if we could not find each other for the reason that this is not the time to decide on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u118	There's money left from last year: 2.9 billion. This year we spend half a billion on education. It's not that hard. In all these debates I have had here over the last 11 years, it appeared that either there was no cover or it was too early or too late. Now we can dedicate some of the money this year to charity. We all believe in this Chamber that we should invest in it and not wait for the information table. Then let's not mouse about the moment or the instrument. The money's here. There's a need for it, so we're gonna set it up for it. But I hear the PvdA's up for it, so we're gonna figure it out together. I was on the subject of IRS. While the Tax Administration cannot indicate whether tax collection is still possible in the near future, a further 0.5 billion is being cut in the coming years. I wonder if this is justified. So I would also like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance if they are prepared to delete this cut. The Tax Office is far from being saved and is even more in trouble. The same applies to the government. Colleagues Van Weyenberg and Snels have already talked about it: there are staff shortages, but elsewhere there are staff surpluses and there is, above all, a serious lack of knowledge about ICT. Does the government think this is justified? What is she going to do to save digital security? We've had ECB boss Draghi here. He explained to us that the economy was saved by his investment policy, by his buy-back program. At the same time, the Minister of Finance says he saved the country. Can the government shed light on what exactly happened here? Now that the European Union and the boss of the European bank say that the euro area is in good shape and that we can deepen and complete it, I would like to know what the Dutch position is. Has the Minister of Finance read that the German central bank does not appreciate trust in European banks? That was a message yesterday in The Financial Daily. Because of the problems with Italian banks, it is considered that the European banks have been overvalued. Can the Minister indicate whether the euro is stable? The Netherlands was making cuts because it had to comply with European budgetary rules. They are known: not too much public debt and not too high a budget deficit, but there is still an agreement, namely a not too high trade surplus. The Netherlands hasn't been able to do that for years. What impact does this have on the stability of the euro, our own internal spending and the economy? Can the Minister comment on the trade surplus of 52 billion and its impact? Wouldn't it be much better to invest that money in our country so that there will be more spending, so that there will be more purchasing power and more can be exported? That's good for the south. Prosperity here is prosperity in the south. We all know that. If we put our money into debt in the south, then at least the economy is not growing. So it's not about the figures, it's about the impact of the policy. That's a big black hole, I told you. Half of the elderly who apply for home care in the municipality do not get enough. Was this the intention when we put the knife in the General Law Special Disease Cost? In addition, the premium levy is still worth 10 billion every year. Since the new tax system, everyone has been paying a premium for care, but it's starting at 10 billion. The rest of you go to the care center. That 10 billion goes to the tax rebates. I've tried a lot of places in this house to find out where those tax rebates are going, but I still don't know. The healthcare premium is being said to citizens that those who pay for care because it is too expensive, but 10 billion of it is being skimmed. That was a third of the AWBZ, but where are those tax rebates going? The Minister of Finance is here now. I hope I can get an answer to that question today. By the way, this is still going on, because this year, too, 10 billion of the premium under the Long-Term Care Act will be put into the pocket for tax rebates. The rest of you go to the care center. Of the 10 billion, however, you can do nice things for citizens and business. At least you shouldn't tell people that they're paying care premiums for care, because that's a lie. The Ministry of Health has left nearly 1.8 billion on the shelf. That money has not been spent, but there are growing waiting lists in youth care. The ggz also creates problems, causing society to get stuck. This not only leads to serious problems in the police, but also in people. Yesterday there was a serious incident in Rotterdam. I think to myself: why are we, as a country, not able, by all the means we have, to offer safety to psychiatric patients, and also to the people living next door to those patients, people taking care of these patients? To that end, the government should be on earth. Will the Minister ensure that the Ministry of Health uses the 1.8 billion to take away the needs that are now there? Those needs are legion. I don't have to list them, but I find the most distressing thing about this cystic fibrosis in children. The medicine that exists and helps for this is too expensive because the pharmaceutical company wants to make a profit over the back of sick children. There's a cure, but it won't be reimbursed while there's money left in the Ministry. Of course, the drug price has to go down. So do we, but we also want these children to be helped. I would like to propose three. Invest 0.5 billion in primary education for smaller classes and better pay. Delete the further austerity on the Tax Administration, as long as it cannot carry out its core tasks and also spend the money that was intended for care. This is probably the last debate of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. This puts an end to a period in which state finances were more important than other matters. It is my heartfelt hope that in a subsequent period the welfare of people, animals and the environment will be guiding. A country where gross domestic product goes for everything is urgently needed for salvation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. Before I get to the substantive part of my contribution, I would like to make a personal comment. For me, the debate on accountability is closely linked to the person of Saskia Stuiveling. As long as I can remember, she was a member and later president of the General Court of Auditors. I always thought she was a remarkable woman, with a big heart for the public good. We commemorated her here in the Chamber, also with fine words from the cabinet. For my part, I would also like to emphasise how valuable I found her commitment and her work for this Chamber, but certainly also for our society. Let me now turn to the questioning debate and the debate on the 2016 annual reports. My impression was that two weeks ago the Minister of Finance could not fully suppress his smile when he presented the annual papers for 2016. Macroeconomically, he beat himself. The balance has resulted in a small surplus from an expected minus. He saw the debt drop by 32 billion. In addition, unemployment fell to 5.4%. That's worth a compliment. Many tough, difficult decisions have been made in recent years, which many have felt. Now the road seems to be found up. The question that is at the heart of today is, of course, also: has the country improved? For the first time this year, we have had some insight into the so-called broad concept of prosperity, also into the report of the committee which has carried out research on it. As far as I am concerned, that is valuable, so that we can get a more complete picture of the state of the country. When we zoom in on the macroeconomic figures, we see that, of course, there is a whole world behind this. As has been said, unemployment has decreased. That is good, but are there any problems in the labour market? Not at all. Our labour market is increasingly characterised by a division, between fixed-term workers and those with flexible contracts. If you belong to the last group, you have little chance of a mortgage, let alone some certainty about where your next job is and where you can settle. Recent figures from the CBS show that the percentage of fixed contracts is still decreasing, even now that the economy is attracting. This is one of the areas in which this cabinet should have done more. This will make it one of the biggest challenges for a new cabinet and for this Chamber: to ensure that our labour market will once again provide security for everyone instead of the happy few. That is not only a task for a new cabinet or for this Chamber, but also for the polder, I say. The more remarkable it was that the cabinet itself suddenly came up with an investigation into the cost of dismissal. The cabinet itself states that it conducts periodic investigations into this. I've looked it back for a while, but I haven't been able to find much of it. This is an investigation that was also ordered by the Minister for Social Affairs and not by the Minister for Social Affairs. The Minister of EZ threw out the investigation, which he had done himself, then over the fence at this Chamber, without cabinet reaction, because the cabinet is outgoing. I know after four years that VVD and PvdA were unable to reach agreement on labour market policy and that therefore the problems have largely not been addressed. But in this way showing your disagreement is a bit exaggerated. The report shows that the cost of dismissal has risen almost across the board, and that while the aim of the Work and Security Act was to make it less firm and flex less flexible. With the cabinet's own report in hand, I would like to ask this Minister: does he think that the objective has been achieved and what does he think about the increase in dismissal costs across the board? Moreover, I think that the employers are pleased with the report and that they can go to the polder with that report in their hand. If that's the plan, I'd like to hear it, too. The restoration of the housing market also seems to be underway. House prices are rising and there are fewer mortgages under water. But here too, there is a reality behind the figures. People who want to take a next step in their living career from a social housing unit run into a wall. Affordable middle-priced rent is hardly there, and the explosion of house prices doesn't make it any easier to buy a house. The flow's jammed. At the same time, in whole parts of the country it is shrinking and becoming unsellable of its own home is becoming a problem. There is no longer a single housing market in the Netherlands. Much greater account will have to be taken of regional disparities in policy making. When I see how our former Minister for Housing, Minister Blok, reacted when he switched office in the cabinet, the suggestion seems to be that his work as Minister for Living was quite finished. It seems to me nothing less true, in the light of what I have just said. Does this cabinet recognize that, too? Does this cabinet recognise that there are still many steps to be taken on the housing market? If so, which one? Another major challenge for this cabinet was the transition to renewable energy. This week, the figures came out about the share of renewable energy achieved last year. Do not be alarmed: from 5.8% to 5.9%, while we have set ourselves the ambition to generate 16% renewable energy by 2023. In the coming years the pace will be somewhat higher due to the construction of additional windmills at sea, but it remains a pace we can't be proud of at all. If we continue in this way, we will not be able to meet our own objectives, while billions of euros, paid by taxpayers, will be stifled in the coal plants through the subsidy for biomass. That is not a sustainable solution, literally not and figuratively not. The switch to renewable energy will therefore have to be given a much higher priority, not only for the sake of our environment, but also because we are obliged to our people in Groningen and because we no longer want to be dependent on dubious regimes. Does the Minister share the conclusion that the pace has to be raised to achieve a real energy transition? CO emissions from our own industry have been higher than ever last year, while CO emissions from industry decreased by 3.4% throughout the EU last year. It's not going well. Does the Cabinet recognize that? In the United Kingdom good results have been achieved in reducing CO emissions from industry by introducing a minimum price for CO. How's the cabinet looking at this? The General Court has once again given us a valuable insight into the government's spending. Last year, where three "serious shortcomings" were identified, they have now been reduced to "incompleteities" at the Ministry of V and J, the Ministry of Defence and the Tax Administration. A lot has gone wrong, especially in the last one. That was all the more serious, because the Tax Administration almost realizes the entire revenue side of the budget. It's even more complicated because there's some sort of catch 22. There is a call for a simpler and fairer tax system. Because of the tax trees many people can no longer see the tax forest and there is growing inequality in the taxation of equal incomes. I find that indigestible. But the Court of Auditors notes that the internal systems of the Tax Administration cannot handle a real reform at all. How to get out of this impasse? How does the Minister ensure that a new cabinet can clean up any of that mess? A plan this cabinet boasted of a few years ago. A second worrying point raised by the Court of Auditors is the state of information security of the government. A number of colleagues have already drawn attention to this. The Empire knows just about everything about all citizens in the Netherlands. We make tax returns, our social data are known, where we live, with whom and whether or not we get benefits: it is all known. Many crucial systems have become largely dependent on the deployment of ICT. If the Court then finds shortcomings in information security, it is serious. Moreover, the Court also puts the finger on the information security of our own House of Representatives. That's also something to reflect on. Is information security now the top priority of this cabinet? I do not think this can wait until another cabinet. Does it recognise that citizens should always be able to rely on their data to be safe and their privacy protected by the government? I would like to make a detailed statement on this point. Finally. The Court of Auditors points out that it is increasingly less aware of the use of state resources because the implementation of the policy has been laid down at a decentralised level. That has been a conscious choice of ours as a chamber. I also respect the local autonomy where accountability should also take place. However, the Court also notes that 50% of the municipalities have not received an approval from the auditor, i.e. in half of the cases. That's extremely high. Does the government have a view of the cause of this and what does the government do to ensure that this percentage goes up? Decentralising policy does not mean that you can then just completely pull your hands off it. How will the cabinet help to ensure that more endorsements can be issued at the decentralised level but also in the case of, for example, ZBOs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. Wednesday meatloaf day. The day on which the money has been spent, the day on which the money has been spent, the concrete goals they wanted to achieve and which of these goals has been achieved in practice. Experience has shown that in this debate little is said about chopped meat and much about money, as if that were the only thing that matters. But, as my group chairman would say in such situations, what good is your money if the ice sheet melts? Today, this question seems more topical than ever during the Accountability debate. Let us use today to ask for broad accountability in the knowledge that we are going to answer next year with the help of a broad concept of prosperity. Then let's talk about meatloaf today. For years, 450 million animals per year have been processed into minced meat in our country, often after a short and miserable life in intensive livestock farming. Not only in Madame Bovary's carriage, the curtains are closed, but also in the cattle industry. Luckily, they're gonna open up a little more soon. In recent years, there has been a great deal of support from governmental and government advisory bodies to drastically reduce livestock in our country in the interests of animals, nature, the environment, public health and biodiversity. But instead of reducing the number of animals slaughtered in our country, it has dramatically increased to 650 million animals. That's almost 50% more than five years in suits. In addition to the V100, we must also talk about the V650 million. How can the cabinet justify that? Let me briefly outline the good intentions with which the path to this hell was paved for farm animals. We have to go back a long way in time for that. A research committee led by Neelie Smit-Kroes from 1992 on the functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture stated: "We must conclude that these specific issues have always been the focus of agricultural interests so far, the measure of things. First, by denying the problem for many years, and then, when it was no longer permanent, by trivialising the problem, and then by not being able to do so again, to deal with it half-heartedly." The Wijffels Committee stated in 2011: "The intensive livestock sector needs to be radically changed. Animals need to be given more room for natural behavior, such as wandering around outside. The transport of live animals should be restricted and livestock breeding should not focus solely on increasing productivity. Dealing with animals is not what we want, and the environment is overstretched. Pigs must root, chickens must scramble, and the cow must go into the pasture." Minister Brinkhorst of Agriculture responded on behalf of the cabinet. "This report is being carried out, not to push a sector into the ground, but to make sure that we can be proud of livestock farming again." The Planning Bureau for the Environment wrote the following in 2010. "Many animal welfare problems remain. Many animals are severely restricted in their natural behaviour. The transport of pigs over long distances has not decreased. The import of meat calves, and the accompanying transport, is increasing significantly." In 2012, the Van Dijk evaluation committee wrote about the approach to Q fever: "The investigation of the suspected source of infection of Q fever has been hampered for a long time by the use of privacy. This has made it difficult to locate the infected farms exactly. The argument of corporate privacy cannot dominate in a proportionate approach to a public health problem and certainly not in an approach based on the precautionary principle." In its follow-up study on sustainability in livestock farming in 2013, the General Court recommended the following. "In the case of pigs and chickens, in particular, the welfare rules are not sufficiently complied with: in 2011, more than 50% of chickens keepers and more than 30% of pig farmers violated animal welfare rules'. The conclusion that we can draw from all these quotes is that the government's advisory bodies repeatedly state that in our economy the pantry is not in order. I think the Chamber will agree with that. We produce too much animal protein at too low a cost. Externalities and the real price of milk, cattle, eggs and cheese are not charged to the consumer, but are borne by the taxpayer, who is ignorant of this. In the report The real price of meat, it is stated that the price is 35% too low. Meat is therefore in fact heavily subsidised. The recent research report The real price of milk, which was commissioned by the G. Pierson Foundation, shows that milk brings more social costs than there are benefits. In our economy, food policy appears to be extremely inefficient. This policy brings with it high costs and enormous social disadvantages. That is why, during this debate on responsibility, I should like to address one question: how does the cabinet explain the dramatic increase in the number of animals slaughtered in relation to all the intentions to reduce the numbers to clear proportions? As far as I am concerned, if the Prime Minister can give a good explanation for this, this meat-and-bone day has already been a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u121	I would like to ask Mr Van Raan a question, but first I would like to say that we also have a committee on agriculture. That's where these kinds of questions are asked. However, I would like to take the content of Mr Van Raan's contribution seriously and ask him the following question. If you open a pig shed somewhere in Europe, all pigs will run to the Netherlands. Doesn't he think that's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u122	That's not true. Those pigs won't run to Holland, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u123	Maybe my question hasn't been clear. The Dutch farming of pigs, chickens, cows, and all sectors of Dutch agriculture are just among the top of the world when it comes to nature and the environment, but also when it comes to animal welfare. According to Mr Van Raan, is that not so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u124	I thank Mr Dijkgraaf for his question. No, that's not true. Besides, it's actually a false contradiction. It's not about how good it is, but it's about bringing it back. The ecological footprint of this giga industry is such that it cannot be sustained. I think I have just shown convincingly that this is not just something that is said by the Animal Party, but also by numerous advisory committees of the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u125	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u126	And that's the point that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u127	If you just look at all the figures with the footprint compared to other countries, surely we cannot deny that we are operating within a European market and often a global market. Then our farmers belong to the top. That is not a political opinion, it is just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u128	It is a special observation that farmers belong to the summit. By the way, there are fewer and fewer farmers, because seven farmers stop every day. So that's not okay at all. You're gonna have to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the numerator of the formation stood at 75 days. The 75-year-old Tjeenk Willink was appointed an informant yesterday. Apparently there is still a promising future in politics for 75-year-olds. By the way, I'm going to be 75 in exactly two months. Accountability day is the day on which the cabinet is accountable for government policy. The windfalls have hit us: 11 billion higher tax revenues, 32 billion lower public debt and an economy that is growing heavily. The macro-finals of this cabinet are strong in financial and economic terms. I agree with previous speakers: this deserves a compliment. It seems that the Rutte II cabinet wants to be judged on this in particular. I understand that, because there's not much to cheer about out there. It is not a question of how many billion more or less has come into this debate on Accountability Day, and as far as I am concerned, it is not a question of exactly how many billion more or less has come into it. The cabinet doesn't have much influence on the billion-dollars we're glad about. On this point, the main conclusion is that the cabinet has very carefully estimated. Then the odds of windfalls are a little higher. It's careful, too. As far as I am concerned, accounting day is mainly the day on which we are given departmental annual reports explaining the policy objectives and priorities the cabinet had set itself for 2016 and to what extent they were implemented. The Court of Auditors shall monitor and report on these annual reports. The Minister of BZK also reports on the implementation of state-wide management tasks. Lawfulness, efficiency and conduct of business should be the subject of this day and, as far as I am concerned, this debate. Expenditure was more than 99% lawful. That sounds excellent, of course. However, that figure is already quite relative by the General Court itself, because 60% of the state expenditure now goes to municipalities, provinces and institutions such as UWV and the Social Insurance Bank. These organisations are controlled by their own democratic body or accountant. But we also know that many municipalities lack the auditor's approving statement. That's worrying. Will the Minister respond to that? That money is thus lawfully transferred to these other government bodies, but what happens with it is increasingly outside the scope of this democratic body, the House of Representatives. How does the Minister feel about that? If we allow the criticisms of the Court of Auditors to be taken into account, the scoreboard of this cabinet's final figures for 50PLUS will no longer be so strong. I quote the Court of Auditors: "The tax administration's extensive investment programme actually stopped in 2016.' Sturdyness and supervision are insufficient. "There were serious financial management problems at the Ministry of V and J in 2015. (...) the way in which (top) officials manage and manage business often causes problems. (...) staff shortages run like a thread through our findings. Problems are expected to increase. But there is no crucial data to develop a good staff strategy." The Court also expresses deep concerns about the future resilience of the workforce and about the modernisation and security of ICT. The Court explicitly points out the lack of ICT expertise, financial expertise and procurement expertise among others. Then there are 36 shortcomings about 2016, of which eight are at Finance and the Tax Administration. 23 out of 36 imperfections are new. Last but not least, there is little insight into the results of policies, it is in many cases unclear, according to the Court of Auditors, whether citizens get value for money. Let me come back to the first point: the standstill of the tax administration's investment programme. Does the Minister not think that a further reduction of 0.5 billion, as envisaged, should not continue? Should a further reduction of staff in the Tax Office not also be stopped? This is particularly in order to strengthen controls by state accountants, who, moreover, need to be trained. All in all, these seven points are rather worrying. A state service that beeps and creaks on almost all parts of business operations, where staff shortages are the main thread, where past cuts continue in the coming years and where there is little insight into policy results. According to the Court of Auditors, the number of state officials should be reduced by a further 9 000 fte. That is almost 10% of the total number of officials of 109 000. The Minister states that he is not recognizable in that number and says: on the one hand, the human composition will shrink as a result of targets, on the other hand, it will increase as a result of new policies. That really is a completely inadequate answer. The Court concludes that the transmission of targets amounts to a further staff reduction of 9 000 fte. This is independent of intensifications linked to new policies. After all, officials who are adopted for new policies usually also have a new task. It would be really weird if it weren't. As far as our group is concerned, it does not show very much realism. It is wishful thinking at the expense of core tasks and public services. According to 50PLUS, in the light of the crystal clear criticisms made by the Court of Auditors, it is only logical to take a critical look at the further impact of cuts on the state service. How many millions of jobs will be lost in the coming years and which departments exactly? We would like to examine this further; I shall perhaps return to it later with a motion. The challenges are enormous. Modernisation is inevitable. It is now really high time to shape all these ambitions with a realistic implementation agenda. The General Court of Auditors shall give detailed consideration to appropriate education. The Ministry of Education spent 2.4 billion in 2016 to provide appropriate education, the additional support to students who need it. According to the General Court, it is not clear how many pupils receive additional support. The registration is unreliable. This can't be happening. We want this to be clarified as soon as possible by having it investigated. We are considering tabling a motion on this point. The new system should have led to a better understanding of policy outcomes. It didn't work, and it's a lot of, a lot of money. In this context, we are very curious about the answer to one of our actual questions about that 2.4 billion. Is that new money? What part was a slide from other posts in the OCW budget? Of course, it's not just about money. Another obvious conclusion of the Court of Auditors is that the Empire is hindering the full provision of services to municipalities. That's alarming. According to the Court, much more needs to be devoted to one language, uniformity of information and accountability systems. Because of its lack, the Chamber cannot exercise democratic control. Indeed, results are so difficult to compare, and it is not possible to determine whether or not targets are being achieved. 50PLUS made a point of this last year in the Accountability debate and also in other debates. On the contrary, decentralisation has reduced the uniformity and measurability of policies. For example, the lack of one language means that it is not known whether children in need of psychiatric care, sick and elderly people in need of home care or support are better or worse off now that they have to contact the municipality for help and support. There can be no unambiguous determination of whether targets have been achieved. This also means that the figures and research on over- and under-utilisation are often unworkable. 50PLUS has always taken the view that too much freedom of policy for municipalities is not desirable. In addition, the Participation Act, the Youth Act and the Wmo apply different requirements for the collection and exchange of personal data. It is at least inefficient when each invents its own wheel, especially vis-à-vis the citizen. As a result, we ask for a response to the research report commissioned by the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which shows that municipalities are at great financial risk because about 25% of the municipalities are unable to support it. The deficit could reach about 10%. A lighting budget is requested for these municipalities. If that is not the case, appropriate care and continuity will be at stake. We ask the government to respond to this very undesirable and possibly even dangerous development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, as all my fellow Members have done, for the good and great work that has been done. That work was essential. But I would like to put the question to the Minister for Finance, which Mr Van Weyenberg also asked. If we see this as a Chamber in such a way, how is it possible that the budget is so under pressure? Is the Minister of Finance prepared to do something about this in the short term? I would like to thank the Cabinet for its reaction and for its hard work. 99% is legitimate. I am not yet ready if some of my colleagues say that this could be the last debate of accountability with this cabinet. Given the pace of the cabinet formation, I am afraid to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u132	One of the last ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u133	It will indeed be one of the last, I agree with the Prime Minister. It is a great good that we live in a country where 99% is legitimate, but is it also efficient and effective? The Court of Auditors says: a great deal is unknown. Many have already mentioned the V100 and have asked nice questions. It's nice that that's organized. They are actually asking whether the money is sensible, economical and carefully spent. Today we are asking the same question. What do we want to achieve? How much do we need for that? What is the cost-benefit ratio? Actually, I can be quite brief, also given the input of others. How can we have so little of these evaluations? I am not going to repeat all kinds of things that colleagues have already said about appropriate education, but how is it that we have spent 2.4 billion and there is no report? The same applies to the job plans that exist. We had a round table last Monday about the Sustainable Development Goals. We get another report with 108 pages of beautiful lyrics. Then you read that and at the end you wonder what the image is. Where is this scorecard that you can see where we came from, what is the goal, where we are now and whether we are going to get where we need to be with the current policy? Furthermore, the big question is why an evaluation is not available as standard in major policy changes. In the greening of the fleet, billions have gone up, but what is the ratio between the benefits, actual greening yes or no, and the costs, the billions that have gone into it? Then we see that we, as a Chamber, put in an evaluation clause under one law; an amendment. That is the easiest amendment you can get as a Member of Parliament. After all, you often have a majority. Yet you can see that it is some kind of coincidence whether such an amendment is coming or not. Surely the decision to evaluate or not to evaluate should not depend on such coincidences? The General Court concludes that there is limited information on the effectiveness of policies. Surely that should not be the case in a country like the Netherlands? What does the Prime Minister think, what does the Minister of Finance think about going to a "yes, unless" when evaluating provisions of a "no, unless"? So: always evaluate, unless there are reasons not to. The big question then is, of course, when it does not apply. It can be an idea to create a decision tree, where you can think of questions like "is it enough to evaluate content or financial?" Or "what's the purpose?'. Mr Snels has already said that the targets are often very vague. Shouldn't we be setting more precise targets? Can you even measure what you want to know? We must not, of course, get into the situation that only measurable things are going to count. Just called appropriate education: 2.4 billion. Some things you might be able to measure, and it would be good to measure them, but at the same time you know that there are many things that are important but you will never be able to measure. So if you're gonna measure, what's it gonna take to measure zero? Do you have to start collecting data every year? How soon can you make a meaningful evaluation? And not insignificant: how much does it cost to do all this? Nor should we create a very bureaucratic circus if it is just a minor policy change. So my key question is: how does the Minister view a decision-making tree that determines whether or not an evaluation should be carried out? How does the minister look at the "yes, unless"? That doesn't have to come from the room. Such an amendment from the Chamber should not really be necessary. Can the initiative not be placed much more with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u134	I have a question about the decision tree, and that also brings me back a little bit to our own input. Does the speaker agree that the analysis of all the reports I mentioned in my contribution recommends that livestock should be reduced? Does that fit into one of those decision trees you describe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'm just looking for the hook, Madam President. I think I need to reword my text on the decision-making tree. It is in the report and it is therefore readable. It doesn't have much to do with the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u136	Does the speaker share the analysis in the reports which advocate a reduction in livestock? Does the speaker think that the Prime Minister should be accountable for the fact that, although the shrinkage is proposed, livestock has grown by 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u137	With all due respect, I find this an absurd question in this debate. We have all kinds of agricultural debates. This is about reducing livestock, yes or no. If the honourable Member follows us, he will know that we are totally opposed to this, as will the remark that all the reports say so. Then he knows that we too want to invest in animal welfare, nature and the environment and that this must be earned back by farmers. But what about my story about evaluation and decision-making? My IQ is too low to comprehend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u138	I won't make any statements about the IQ. I note, however, that this is a debate of accountability and that a question about growth is justified. I am therefore sorry that the speaker feels that the question would be absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u139	I'd like to nuance it. Of course, this is a valid question that can be put in a debate, but I was looking for a relationship with the decision-making tree, as the honourable Member also pointed out. I don't see them. The decision tree is about whether or not to evaluate a law or a policy measure. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u141	If you do that, if you want to put the initiative much more into the government, then of course there is an important question: is each ministry sufficiently motivated to give this serious hands and feet or are there perhaps ministries I can hardly imagine, but in practice it turns out that sometimes those who prefer not to see an evaluation because they know in advance that they might have a big problem when that evaluation comes? After all, the mode is "define the existing policy" rather than "does the policy really work and weigh up the costs against what is being achieved?'. Especially in the case of ministry-wide policies, there does not seem to be a problem owner at the moment. My question to the Minister of Finance is therefore: would that not be a task of finance? In any case, the Ministry of Finance is already doing so with regard to the money. Is it not logical that she should also ensure that the money is spent effectively? This does not mean that all evaluations should be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, but that the Ministry of Finance should ensure that these evaluations are carried out, and are properly carried out, in the event of major policy changes and laws. Then there is a clear problem owner and the wheel does not need to be reinvented for each ministry. I'd like to get a response from the rulers to these suggestions. With regard to ICT, security and the Tax Service, these are key points in the report of the General Court of Auditors, on which important questions are being asked, I can simply agree with the questions put by previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I'm the last speaker and it's been a long time so far. I will therefore make my contribution quickly. We are talking here today about the responsibility of spending taxpayers' money. About 38% of the money we're all making is tax. The Netherlands is therefore just below the European average. However, the tax burden is considerable. We pay over 156 billion in taxes and 102 billion in premiums. We do that because we want to keep the government and the collective provisions running. As far as DENK is concerned, that is a very good thing, because the characteristic of a civilised society is a government that provides a safety net and facilities to protect the weak and makes investments to serve society. Think of providing good education to all, ensuring good care, combating poverty, ensuring security for all citizens, combating racism and discrimination and also building good roads; that is good for the economy and for all Dutch people. This ideal can only count on support in society if taxpayers' money is spent properly. To use the words of our Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the government cannot spend this money on drink and women. At least not everything, right? A little bit. That is why it is important for the General Court to check every year whether our government deals well with the money from Henk, Fatima, Cerkan and all the other Dutch people. My first point is therefore about the audit role of the General Court. About a month ago, the President of the General Court called on the door because the proper implementation of the role of the General Court was put under pressure by cuts. We are talking about an important institution which deals with the control of expenditure and the collection of tax revenue. That institution itself now indicates that it does not have enough money for this. What's the signal we're sending? Shouldn't action be taken? In response to questions from Denk, the government states that it is prepared to discuss them with the Court of Auditors and other High Colleges of State. How's that conversation coming? In addition to a possible subsequent statement in a budget, can the Court be given detailed information on the outcome of the budget? Despite the difficulties, the Court of Auditors has looked closely at the expenditure of the money. Minister Dijsselbloem finally got his so intensely desired stamp. The Court of Auditors approves: all errors are below the 1% tolerance limit. It looks like roses and moonshine, but is the picture so rosy? The Court states that it has not yet declared EUR 483 million unlawful because this does not yet have to be done by the law, when it is late or not at all notified to Parliament. The stamp of approval by the Court of Auditors is, of course, nice for the government to thank for the good work, but it says very little about what policy and spending actually do for society. A number of colleagues also mentioned their contribution. This is the most important question we should be asking on Accountability Day. What do we know about the results of government policy? The answer to this question is in a number of ways: bitterly little. The government spent EUR 223,5 billion in 2016 but we have no idea whether they work or not of too many of the billions and million projects that have been financed with it. The government makes up policies, sets goals, spends money for them and starts, but at the end of the journey it is sometimes unclear whether the policy has worked and whether the goals have been achieved. In short, why do we do the things we do? Amazingly, the example that has been mentioned a number of times, namely that we do not know what the 2.4 billion for appropriate education has produced and whether the 1.6 billion for clean air has meant anything to improve air quality. Even more serious is the report by the SVB on the right of pgb extraction: 40% of the 2.3 billion was illegal. The order department of the SVB issued a disapproval on this subject, but curiously this does not work through in the legality rates of the Empire. This is how it works in The Hague because the Empire has not laid down specific conditions for the use of this money. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is not time for us to do so. So citizens do not know whether their contribution to the government and paying taxes always get value for money. This puts a possible bomb under the confidence of citizens in politics. The General Court speaks of a lack of technique of policy evaluation, insufficient interest in the results of policies and insufficient support for policies. The worst thing, however, is that the Court of Auditors also finds a wrong culture in a number of ministries; a culture in which policy is always defended, critical questions are avoided, negative results are trivialised and political risks are decisive. That culture must be broken. People in the country and parliament deserve a fair and objective view of the effectiveness of policies. This government, with a lot of improvement measures, points to the arrival of a new cabinet, but if we continue with these talks, this cabinet could be waiting a long time, even if my confidence in Mr Tjeenk Willink is very great. My question to the government is what, in addition to the measures taken, it will do to break the culture reported by the Court of Auditors. How will it improve policy evaluation? Is it not advisable to wait now and, in accordance with the opinion of the Study Group on Budgets, to start an operation with an understanding of quality? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Court also notes a number of major problems with the management of the public administration; staff shortages are a major part of it. The workload in the ministries would be too high, there would be insufficient human resources and there would be insufficient understanding of the need for staff for the future. In short, personnel policy seems to be a disaster. The strategic staff plans drawn up by ministries do not provide a sufficient response to these problems. The Court notes a number of concrete points where this goes wrong: an emphasis on quantity and lack of attention to quality, no understanding of the need for the future and differences in orientations on staff. In response to the observations made, the government states that the strategic plans are not intended for a state-wide approach, but is it not necessary to take more direction, to take into account the Court's concrete points and to include them in the plans? I would also like to get a reaction on this point. Finally, I would like to say something about the Tax Office. A lot has been said about it. While Rutte, Buma and Pechtold have been searching for a fourth clover jacket partner for over two months, the Tax Administration is the victim of the current political impasse. At the Ministry of Finance, the Court notes the most flaws of all ministries, mainly due to the problems of the Tax Administration. I'm just gonna get a hold of all the shit. The 1.1 billion improvement programme has completely stopped in the past year. Partly because of the departure scheme that has been discussed many times, which has gotten completely out of hand, we have lost not only money but also expertise. Certain elements are not even monitored anymore, such as book research for the insurance tax. There is a lack of adequate information, but the most significant thing is that the Tax Administration does not have its own declaration of income and corporation tax in order. Is the IRS imposing a fine on itself, or how does that work? On top of that is the planned cut of EUR 0.5 billion. There is one question for society: how is the Minister going to convince society that Mr Wiebes is gonna make it work with the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you. This was the first term of office. After the suspension, we'll start with the arrangement of work. Around 2:45 p.m., the Minister of Finance will be the first speaker to answer the questions asked.
