ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Later this year, in June, a sad milestone will be reached. Then Palestine has been occupied by Israel for 50 years. This occupation is accompanied by brutal repression of the Palestinians and a large-scale expansion of illegal settlements, in violation of our international law. Palestinians are driven away from home and fireplace and houses are destroyed. According to estimates, there are already around 600,000 Israelis living in occupied territory. Since President Trump took office in January, the brakes seem completely loose. The Israeli Government has since announced the construction of many thousands of homes in occupied areas. So it happened that last week, for the first time in twenty years, she authorised the construction of a new settlement. The United Nations and a number of EU countries have rightly criticised this, but I have not heard anything from this minister. How is that possible? Surely the Minister agrees with me that the continuing occupation of Palestine and the settlement building are the main obstacles to peace and the two-state solution? He can't do anything but condemn Israeli policy, can he? I'd like to get a reaction to that. A conviction must, but is absolutely insufficient. For decades Israel has been continuing to violate international law on a large scale. Nothing less than the viability of Palestine is at stake. That is why I call on the Minister to increase pressure both at EU level and bilaterally. This can be done, for example, by suspending the EU association agreement with Israel and the cooperation forum of the Netherlands and Israel. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Madam President. I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut for the questions she has put. I strongly condemn Israel's decision to build new settlements. I did so last week, also in the framework of the European Union. The cabinet is deeply concerned about the continued expansion of Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory. The settlements are illegal and constitute an obstacle to achieving a two-state solution. That is what the Netherlands thinks, and that is what the European Union thinks. This was reaffirmed in UN Security Council Resolution 2334 and at the MOVP conference in Paris, in which the Netherlands was also present. Enlargement of the settlements also runs counter to the commitment made by Prime Minister Netanyahu himself with regard to the so-called two-state solution. After all, the chance of peace will only be reduced if you expand those settlements. The international community is united on this, and this has also been emphasised by the United States. In my absence, we explicitly raised this particular point at a high level of administration last week in a discussion with the Israeli Ambassador. Last week, moreover, there was a direct response in the Netherlands. The High Representative has also rightly drawn attention to this in the European Union. Yesterday, I spoke extensively with the Secretary-General of the Arab League to see how we should proceed with this together with our fellow Members from Europe. From the Arab League, the emphasis is placed on a number of points. Not only is this settlement policy condemned; it also emphasises the continuation of the so-called Arab peace initiative. The Netherlands and the European Union are also being asked to increase the pressure on Israel, perhaps with a correction but at least with the basis of the principles of the Arab peace initiative, because if this movement continues, you will of course have a negative development with regard to the two-state solution. The Netherlands and the European Union are prepared to do so. Some discussions are taking place today in the United States. I cannot, of course, say at the moment whether they have any positive results, but at least I condemn these settlements. I do not think they are in line with the two-state solution. The EU Association Council has not yet been convened. The question is always whether such an Association Council is the time to increase the pressure or whether you should not give credit to the fact that these settlements have now been extended by saying that we do not have that council for the time being. That's a decision of the High Representative. In any case, I think that this item should be at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Fortunately, the Minister condemns this. Nor would I have expected otherwise, because the Minister claims to stand for peace, security and the two-state solution. Netanyahu may pay lip service to the two-state solution, because that is what he is doing, but in practice, since Trump's arrival, new settlements have been built, 6,000 new houses have been announced in settlements and he continues to occupy, colonize and annex Palestine. At the moment, this brings peace and the two-state solution further away. All this is contrary to the EU association agreement, which states that human rights must be guiding. It is contrary to UN Security Council Resolution 2334 adopted last year. In other words, it is a good thing that the Minister has addressed the Ambassador and that he is making an international point here. However, as long as there are no consequences, practice moves in a different direction. I thought I belonged to the Minister's space in which he said that the Netherlands might want to argue in favour of suspending the EU Association Treaty or at least the Cooperation Forum. Can and will the Minister confirm that? Otherwise, a solution risks getting farther away than ever before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	I really do not agree with Mrs Karabulut on the bilateral forums. I don't want to suspend it either, on the contrary. I have just found, also on the basis of the consultations we are holding with the Palestinians, with President Abbas and his people, that he considers the bilateral relations we have with both the Palestinian Authority and with Israel to be of great importance. He sees these relations as a method of raising what we are putting forward here today. Of course, it is also about how effective your possibilities are and how you can expand them. The suspension of bilateral fora is not even in line with what the Palestinians want. So I don't agree with that. I wouldn't want to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Then my question still hasn't been answered. The Palestinian State is currently being overthrown by Israel, which it is becoming, and we have the rule in the EU Association Treaty that human rights must be guiding and that Israel must stop violating international law. None of that's gonna happen. When will this minister come to the border where he says: and now we are going to draw consequences? 'Cause judging it, that's what he does. Convicting it, that's what the EU does. There's a UN resolution. However, the practice is that the two-state solution is currently blocked by the action of the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	We agree with Mrs Karabulut's analysis. I therefore strongly condemn it. That is why we are also working on it internationally, with the Arab states and with the Palestinians. As far as I am concerned, we are also working on a number of initiatives that are being taken these days. The EU Association Council is right to raise these issues. So I do not see what Mrs Karabulut wants for consequences that would be effective. In any case, I believe that we must be very active to prevent settlement policy from reducing the chances of a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Once again, the Middle East is on fire and the most important issue must be the construction of houses in an area whose status has indeed been contested and for which a solution must be found at the negotiating table. According to the analysis of the SGP, it is much more important that all stabbings, missiles and suicide attacks, which really threaten peace there, be stopped. Does the Minister not find it interesting that the rule of law in Israel means that there can simply be objections to settlements? In the past, a place like Amona has even been cleared by the Supreme Court. So is the analysis correct that nothing ever changes in that? There are also limits imposed by the Israeli court of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have some points. Firstly, this afternoon, when we were talking about the Middle East, we did not talk about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict but about Syria. Secondly, international law is indeed an important element and criterion in Mr Van der Staaij's group. As Mr Van der Staaij knows, the settlement building is not in accordance with international law and is now, for the first time in many years, being implemented and proposed an extension which is not in accordance with international law. That is why the Dutch Government condemns it. Thirdly, Israel is a rule of law and indeed checks and balances exist there. I think that's important, too. This does not alter the fact that these enlargements continue. Some of them may not be outposts under national law, but others may not. Since these enlargements do not bring the two-state solution closer and make negotiations more difficult, the Dutch Government condemns this settlement policy. We are not just doing this, but with all neighbouring countries, the European Union and almost the entire international community.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	That this Minister strongly condemns the policy of the Netanyahu government is good, but it is not enough. For decades, the construction of illegal Israeli settlements has continued. Condemning alone won't get us there. Is the Minister prepared to take consequences at EU level to ensure that this injustice is stopped? If we continue to condemn it, we know at least one thing: we will soon read in the media that an illegal Israeli settlement will be built again. So is the Minister prepared to take consequences, such as boycotting products from illegal Israeli settlements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Firstly, we are crystal clear about the convictions. Secondly, Mr Kuzu knows that it has not been clear. For example, in all agreements between Israel and the European Union, the European Union states that they do not apply to the territories occupied by Israel since 1967. In other words, settlements must not profit. Furthermore, as we know, the Netherlands has for years discouraged economic relations with companies in Israeli settlements. This shall continue to apply without prejudice. I also refer to measures taken day in, day out if necessary. Israel participates in the Horizon European Research Programme, applying the principles of the '67 borders. So you can see that the European Union is actually getting sharper on the borders of '67 to make the two-state solution possible. I think this is the core. The Dutch government is opposed to a boycott of Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	Unlike Mrs Karabulut, I have not known the Palestinian State for 70 years. That's too bad, because there should be. I've known Israel for 70 years. For that I sincerely congratulate you; I hope there will be many years to come. A call for a unilateral boycott from the Netherlands is precisely to the detriment of the Palestinians and of the future of the two states that we all wish to see. Amona is a settlement that was illegal. It's good that it's closed. It is a pity that it was then moved. Does the Minister agree with me that at least since Friday, also under pressure from the Americans, I believe that it is happening at the moment with the help of Mr Jason Greenblatt that the Israeli Government is not going to want any further enlargements? Is it true that it only wants enlargements, as it is called so beautifully? Is it true that she does not want new settlements and expansions? In any case, that contradicts Mrs Karabulut's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	For the first time in twenty years, a new Jewish settlement is being built on the West Bank. Hence the Dutch conviction. We do not dwell on that, because in addition to that condemnation we also have a number of policy points with regard to the borders of '67. At the same time, it is important to move forward with the Arab League and the United States. Indeed, Prime Minister Netanyahu has spoken about limiting enlargement elsewhere. We need to make sure this happens. That has to prove itself in facts, on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	I believe that this new step, this new escalation in settlement policy, can only be seen as a test of the United States' policy to date in relation to Israel. That is why I have the following question to the Minister. He says we're working with all kinds of partners to see if we can increase the pressure. What could he do to ensure, at EU or bilateral level with a number of like-minded countries, especially in relation to the United States, that not only promises are made about future enlargement or enlargement, we have heard this very often, but above all to reverse this unfortunate decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik. We've done two things in the past and we're going to do things in the future. When the Trump administration started and its policy towards Israel and the settlements was unclear, the Dutch government participated in the Paris conference to keep the criteria clear about what we have always found and to ensure that they do not water down. This includes, for example, the positioning and location of embassies and respect for the UN resolution adopted at the end of December. We did this in order to make it clear in the influence where Europe and the Netherlands are. In addition, President Sisi is an important item in Washington today and there are US representatives in the Middle East to look together with Arab countries to see to what extent a serious peace process can be resumed. Whether I have confidence in that, I cannot yet judge, but the approach of the Netherlands and Europe will be exactly as Mr Van Ojik says. We are talking about the withdrawal of new settlements. And if there is a limitation in the future, we believe that this should actually lead to a new peace initiative. I am not going to sell tubers for lemons here, because I do not know how it will go, but this is the method on which I can respond effectively to what has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you.
