ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Plasterk and first give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. This minister, together with the Minister of Finance, has an important responsibility for the prosperity of the provinces under the Financial Relationship Act. Together they are fund managers. They shall have the task of ensuring a proper distribution between the provinces of the amount available to the Province Fund under Article 7. It is important to take into account the differences between provinces in the capacity to provide own income and the differences in expenditure. Put simply, it shouldn't matter which province you live in. There must be a level playing field. That's what the Jansen Commission has been investigating. This bill is the result of this. The problem is that it has been established in advance that there should be no redistribution. The Council is right to suggest that financial relations are at odds with the principle of cost-orientation. However, given the circumstances, there is an improvement in the model; we agree with that. By the new standards, the majority of the Province Fund is given in the form of a general benefit. The SGP considers this to be a good development. Then why are we holding this debate today? It's held because there's a big bone stuck in the throat. The Jansen Commission and the Council for Financial Relations indicate that there must be an update quickly. This is urgently needed, but in the meantime both the IPO and the Minister are not concrete about the date. A new model will therefore be created, but it will not be applied in practice for the time being. The Minister has indicated that he will follow the plan for adjustment if there is unanimity. However, in view of the law, the Minister remains fully responsible as fund manager for the answer to the question of whether the new model meets the legal requirements. The Financial Relations Council does not say for nothing, although it is not in favour of a steering role for fund managers, which is the starting point on issues of distribution, that it considers the role of fund managers to be too limited in this particular case. The requirement of unanimity does not necessarily guarantee that the general interest of a fair distribution of resources is respected. In the debate we are having on this subject, it is always said that the provinces are unanimous in favour of this legislative amendment. That is true, if it is clearly stated that Zeeland is an important one in the case of unanimity. This is also apparent from the letter from Zeeland received by the Chamber this morning. What does it mean if it doesn't? There must be rapid updating of the distribution model and compensation must be provided. These are the conditions laid down at the time when agreeing to this model. On the first point, the actualization of the distribution model, some vague remarks are made. In fact, the Minister says: we do not want to get stuck at the moment of actualization. The second point, the compensation, is not mentioned at all. It is established that Zeeland has a strong negative impact on its own income due to the loss of revenue from Delta. I do not think there is any discussion about this either, but it is worth EUR 10 million a year. That is 7% of the Zeeland budget. The Province Fund budget shows that "a distribution of the available financial resources between provinces that allows each of the provinces to provide their inhabitants with an equivalent set of provisions at a global level of burden" is a guiding principle. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Is he prepared to come up with a rapid update of the distribution model of the Province Fund, as advocated by the Council of State and the Financial Relations Council? Will the Minister undertake that this update has taken place in two years at the latest? Does he recognise that in the meantime there is talk of the concrete problems that Zeeland is experiencing now? Is he prepared to offer compensation for this in consultation with IPO, for example through a temporary increase in the specific fixed amount for Zeeland, financed by the IPO budget? I can leave it at that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. The average Dutchman will not deal with the Province Fund and probably does not even know that exists. Well, that's not so bad on its own. But the average Dutchman can expect the government to regulate everything she regulates as simple and clear as possible. The fact is that the current distribution model of the Province Fund is complex and not transparent. That is not normal and we must do something about it. The present legislative proposal provides for simplification. The distribution of funds among the provinces goes from 18 to nine measures and the share of general benefits rises again to 96%. This is a good thing: simplification in the distribution and as much as possible self-direction by provinces in the spending of resources. Are we there now in terms of redistribution for the longer term? I don't think so, if only because the Minister is working on the Veldman/Wolbert motion from November 2015. That motion called for a fundamental review of the foundations of the Community Fund and the Province Fund, aimed at simplifying the system. The motion also called for an examination of how differences in economic growth between the different regions in the Netherlands can be facilitated. We are not yet there for the longer term either, because there really is reason to look more fundamentally at the cost orientation of the distribution model and thereby ensure a fair distribution in the future based on a more reality-based return on capital. The Financial Relations Council also points out this in its opinion to come forward with a plan of action within two years. The Minister did not take that advice. Why not? Is the Minister prepared, in line with the Council's opinion on financial relations and anticipating the outcome of the Veldman/Wolbert motion, to agree with the Interprovincial Consultation, the IPO, to come forward with a plan for a fundamental review within two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	That goes in the direction of what I mean by my first question to the Minister. That's good. Only then would I say that, if you ask for a plan of action within two years, that plan can also be included in that plan, and I will charge you for working on it for the next hundred years. That cannot be the intention of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	No, definitely not. I think Mr Dijkgraaf knows that the VVD, if it asks for anything, expects results. I am asking not only for a plan of action, but for a plan of action that, in the foreseeable future, I can imagine a period of a year or three, will lead to a review. I referred to last year's Veldman/Wolbert motion. I assume the Minister is not going to spend four or five years thinking about how he is implementing that motion. That must also be done in the foreseeable future. Add that up. I believe that within the next three years you should be able to come up with a review of the divisive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	I couldn't agree more. I was talking about two years. That's in three years. The momentum of the VVD, but also of this minister, should succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	Then I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal has already been mentioned today. I'm gonna be brief. In my view, the pain is mainly in his mind, and we all share this in the opinion given by the Council on financial relations to come up with a plan for maintenance of the distribution model within two years. The Council also does not consider the indirect cost orientation proposed in the present legislative proposal to be sustainable for a longer period of time. That is in line, as my colleague Mr Veldman has already said, with the Veldman/Wolbert motion that has been tabled. The IPO also indicated by letter dated 13 September 2016 that, in line with the opinion of the Financial Relations Council, it was possible to agree to a reduction in the deadline for updating the distribution model. What is going on here this afternoon is the question of whether the Minister is actually prepared to cooperate and to ensure that the momentum remains in place. If we call the animal by the name, it would give the necessary air to a province like Zeeland. I would like to comment on what my colleague said about compensation for Zeeland. I do not think we should compete with each other here in the Chamber who feels the pain of Zeeland the most. I think we understand each other very well on that point. Personally, I find it very complicated if we have agreed unanimously within the IPO, but if something else turns out later. You can say a lot of things, but if I make an appointment with someone, I'll have that appointment. I find that very complicated. I feel the pain of Zeeland. I'm just saying that I can completely reverse the letter from the IPO that Zeeland has just agreed. As far as we are concerned, the actualization is being brought forward. Then we can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	I would like to thank Mrs Fokke for the support she has given for rapid evaluation and a plan of action. I agree. The sooner the better. I would like to come back to the second point, namely that Zeeland has agreed. Zeeland has agreed on the condition that compensation is made. That was also agreed in the context of the IPO. This led to a letter to the cabinet in the framework of the Balkenende Commission. But that's where the pain is. The IPO and Zeeland assumed that this would be resolved within the framework of the Balkenende Committee, and that was not the case. Now the big question is how it is to be completed. So two things have been agreed. Does Mrs. Fokke recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	That remains very complicated. The letter of 13 September 2016 states: "With this letter, the IPO Board also informs you that, in line with the advice of the Board for Financial Relations, the Balkenende Committee and the Cabinet, the Board can agree to the shortening of the deadline for the update of the distribution model. As with previous updates, the IPO will take the initiative in this respect and present a plan of approach to you as fund manager." There's nothing else in there. I would like to make the letter longer than it is, but the letter is no longer and there is no such thing as compensation. Then it gets really complicated. The IPO makes an appointment and Zeeland should have made a reservation. Zeeland should have said that the deal doesn't stand, that he can't make an appointment. Now there is the annoying situation that Zeeland says there is one if, but that I do not read it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	That letter could have been sharper. There is a second letter to the cabinet in which the IPO clearly states that it agrees with Zeeland that the problem of 10 million must be solved. The IPO was of the opinion that the minister would then have to make extra money out of his wallet. He doesn't. I can tell by his mimicry. However, that was the framework of the IPO at the time. If Mrs. Fokke takes those two letters, she can see the combination. Indeed, it would have been even more convenient to put it in this letter. If you put the different pieces together, you can see that there is agreement with the distribution model, the IPO agrees with the assumption that that compensation will take place. However, I believe that we as the Empire must ensure that there is a solution. After all, the Minister is a fund manager at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's right, but on the other hand, we all know that we can't turn on the money machine today. So left or right, we can't make the Province Fund bigger today. The ball is at the IPO again. The IPO moves the hot potato to the minister, but that almost means the money machine has to turn on. The money machine cannot handle, so the IPO should say that the compensation of Zeeland will happen within the IPO. I have not seen such a letter. I know what you mean, Mr Dijkgraaf. I think we all share the pain. However, I have seen no other solution from the authority responsible for resolving it than the solution that is now before me. We shouldn't be kidding each other about that. Personally, I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	Very briefly, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's a short debate. That is exactly my question to the Minister. I'm not asking him to pull the wallet, I'm asking him to go to the IPO to make sure it finally keeps that deal. The IPO had been counting on money from the Empire. That didn't come. Then it will have to come up with a solution and the Minister can play a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group supports the government's proposal to simplify the distribution model for the Province Fund. It also considers it important that there is broad support for the proposal. That was also expressed by the IPO. In the Province Fund there is a correction for own income. This confirms solidarity between the provinces. Rich provinces help poorer provinces. The Council of Financial Relations has pointed out that the model does not take into account the changed differences between provinces in achieving return on equity. This is particularly detrimental to the province of Zeeland. Zeeland is added to the "other own resources" item for 10 million euros, as the model is based on dividend income from the energy company DELTA. But what does it turn out to be? Zeeland has no longer had a dividend from DELTA since 2011. As a result, that province misses 10 million euros per year from the Province Fund. This in a total budget of only EUR 140 million. It is therefore a substantial amount for the province. Does the Minister recognise that the model is unfair in this respect? Does the Minister also recognise that this is an undesirable situation? How is he going to help solve this problem for Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you. I see the Minister can answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. What is ahead is a law to simplify the distribution through the distribution model of the Province Fund. In the first term of the Chamber, I can see broad support for the legislative proposal before us. I thank her for that. Perhaps it is good to recall that this has been an initiative of the provinces in the Interprovincial Consultation, which is often referred to here as the IPO. It was the initiative of the IPO to ask the Jansen Commission to look again at what was called the "large maintenance" of the distribution model in the Province Fund. The committee has been asked to make recommendations on this matter. So it was an initiative of the provinces. As a result, on the basis of that opinion, the provinces have jointly concluded that it is indeed possible to reduce the number of distribution criteria and to continue to base that fund on the following two principles. Firstly, there is an objective cost orientation, in which a number of factors which are really important for the performance of the tasks, but which are very global factors, play a role in determining the share of the Province Fund. I mention the area of the province and the number of inhabitants. But think of the shoreline, for example. This riverline is considerably shorter for the province of Utrecht than for Zeeland, for example. Those factors are therefore weighted. The second point of departure is globality. That is a difference with the Province Fund, in which there is a rather fine calculation of the costs. However, the provinces say that we are an independent layer of government, we do not want to be steered by budget through a fine allocation of the share in the fund, but we want to keep it global. Now, on the basis of these two principles, a key has been created. The twelve provinces in the Interprovincial Consultation have asked me by letter to make this law unchanged. That's just been mentioned. There is unanimity between the twelve provinces on the distribution model Province Fund. I realise that it is, of course, ultimately the responsibility of the guardians of the Province Fund how that division is achieved and put on the table here. I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf. For me, however, it is important that there is also some support for it in the provincial circle. It is of course costly if there is unanimity between the twelve provinces on something as complicated as a distribution model of a fixed pot of money. In that case, it would be unwise to go back into self-defense. That support is therefore an important consideration for me. That is why the proposal is on the table. I therefore have no concrete plans to withdraw another ten million from the Province Fund and to beg to one province, as Mr Dijkgraaf asked. Because that is in fact the redistribution of the budget within the Province Fund, and that is different than the twelve provinces have decided unanimously. In itself, I understand the reasoning about the cost base, I say to Mr Amhaouch. At the same time, of course, an inventory was made at some point of time of the costs at that time. They have then been the starting point for achieving the division. You can't update that all the time. You can do your best to look again at the key as such in good consultation with the Interprovincial Consultation in the coming period. That's what I'm saying. As far as I am concerned, you are looking in particular at the ability to obtain own income from own funds. Mrs. Fokke asked about that, too. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	I understand the Minister says you shouldn't do that every time. But a flight forward is too easy, because from 2011 onwards, the province of Zeeland, still one of the smallest provinces, gets nothing. We are failing Zeeland, especially as the smallest province, even though there is a proposal from the IPO in which togetherness is high priority. This situation will therefore have to be considered critically in the context of solidarity. The province of Zeeland has already received less than 10 million per year in recent years than a total of 140 million. Can the Minister, together with the IPO, fit a sleeve to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	I do not dispute that in itself. If we asked the province of Overijssel if there were any new factors since 2011 that would increase costs, so that they would have to get a larger share from the Province Fund, there might also be valid arguments to do so. One man's cardigan is the other man's pocket. That is why I refer to the position of the twelve provinces together with the request that the key should not be tarnished at the moment. The whole energy dossier is a separate issue, which I am discussing with the Minister of EZ. Furthermore, I am prepared to come back within two years with the results of an attempt to come to a review with the IPO, particularly with regard to the measure of income from own funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	The minister is now making it wider again, by calling in another province. We have not received the information on Overijssel mentioned by the Minister. However, we have been informed about the situation in the province of Zeeland, a situation that I believe has also been discussed within the IPO. The IPO agrees with the distribution model, recognizing that Zeeland is failing. Once again, we ask the Minister to discuss the application of the principle of solidarity with the IPO and the province of Zeeland, irrespective of the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	But we must be careful not to make any arguments like: the cabbage must be spared, but that must not be at the expense of the goat. We've entered a fixed budget into the IPO for the Province Fund. That is not the IPO budget, but the Province Fund, which benefits the twelve provinces, united in the IPO. It cannot be both: if the twelve provinces explicitly ask me to divide it in this way, that is on which I base myself. When one states that additional income for Zeeland would be good, and a separate letter is written to the cabinet which is mainly about the energy dossier, I take it seriously. Again, I am prepared to look again together with the IPO to see whether the income from own funds does justice to the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	I'm chewing on that sentence. In itself, that could be a nice sentence, but I don't know if I should interpret her positively. If we asked the government to consult with the IPO and the province of Zeeland to find a solution in the short term for the period when the distribution model was not yet taken into account and to inform us about it in the short term, what would the Minister say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	If a motion were to be tabled, I would inform you about the cover. This coverage must be obtained from the other provinces, which raises the question of how this relates to the September letter of the IPO which states: stick to this distribution. It sounds a bit like free money and I don't feel that much about it, so I'd like to know what the cover is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	I don't like that either. The coverage would indeed be the IPO budget itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	There isn't. Only the Province Fund is there that we manage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	Sure, I mean the Province Fund. There's money to get there. The order of things is that the IPO tried to put this on the board of the Empire, which failed. We can enter into the conversation, because we are dealing with conflicting agreements: Zeeland has been promised that it will be resolved. However, that cannot be done via the route Empire. In my view, then, the question of how the province will solve this problem must be raised in the discussion between the Empire and the Province.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	I do not know whether the IPO has tried to place it on the board of the Empire, but at least there is now a legislative proposal on which I have a letter from the Interprovincial Consultation which states that the provinces support it unanimously. In the end it comes on the sign of the Lower House and that of the Upper House. They must decide on this. Mr Veldman referred to a much more fundamental review of this state in the Veldman/Wolbert motion, namely the revision of financial relations. I briefed the Chamber last year on the implementation of that motion. Implementation will lead to a report which will be sent to the Chamber this spring exploring the possibilities of a fundamental review. In any event, this fundamental revision will lead to a deviation from the principles of the current distribution in the Province Fund. That's an interesting thought in itself. One of these derogations could be to divide not on the basis of costs but partly on the basis of, for example, economic opportunities. I will inform the Chamber that this will lead to a radically different division. In fact, it is now possible that there are regions or provinces with which it does not go economically well, which in part entails additional objective costs. If you divide on the basis of costs, they are partly offset. However, if you do that on the basis of economic opportunities, you have a chance that there will be less money going there. That money then goes to those regions, provinces or regions where money is made in the Netherlands. So if you want to do that, these are major changes in the basis of the distribution for the Province Fund and the Municipal Fund. In any case, it is not the intention of the present cabinet to do so, but we will do so in spring. I imagine that the next government will reconsider this. My only comment now is that the Court must realise that this is based on major political choices with far-reaching consequences. Encouraged by the President, I will speed up and see if I have left any questions unanswered. I believe that most of the questions have been raised in my general answer and in the interrupting debates, including Mr Veldman's question on the implementation of the Veldman/Wolbert motion and to say that Mrs Fokke's question will be further examined to what extent income from own funds in the new distribution model will be better aligned in the long term with actual income realised. I'll leave it at that for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you. I see that there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf. Maybe he wants to file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yeah, I tried to prevent this, but I couldn't. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the adaptation of the distribution model explicitly provides for the need to update rapidly;]] [[noting that it is widely recognised that the province of Zeeland lacks EUR 10 million per year due to the loss of income from dividend DELTA, whereas this has been taken into account in the calculation of the contribution to Zeeland;]] [[Whereas the provinces of Zeeland continue to face a reduction in the budget of EUR 10 million, which is a substantial part of the provincial budget, even in the event of an early update of the distribution of the money;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Interprovincial Consultations (IPO) and the Province of Zeeland, to find a solution in the short term for the period in which current costs are not yet taken into account and to inform the Chamber of the results of the consultations by 1 May 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34568-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I have some sympathy with the Minister, because he is talking about looking at the divisive measures in the coming period, but at the same time he is telling us, in relation to the motion on which we will be receiving a first report this spring, that at least this cabinet is no longer working on them. That would require me to table a motion so that it could at least be put back in time. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that, by Veldman/Wolbert motion (34300-VII, No. 28) called for a fundamental review of the foundations of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund, aimed at simplifying the system, examining how differences in economic growth can be facilitated between the different regions in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Council recommends that, within two years, a plan of action should be drawn up to look more fundamentally at the cost orientation of the distribution model and thus ensure a fair distribution in the future based on a more reality-based return on capital;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation, inter alia, with the Interprovincial Consultation and in accordance with the opinion of the Financial Relations Council, to come forward within two years with a plan of action aimed at reviewing the foundations of the Province Fund within three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Fokke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34568-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	It is not a plus in the list of two years and three years, so not two plus three. I am assuming that the plan of action will be in place within two years and that within three years from now, there will be a review of the foundations of the Province Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister can answer immediately. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to an opinion on both motions. The Dijkgraaf/Amhaouch motion in part No. 7 refers explicitly and explicitly to the fact that the province of Zeeland is under 10 million a year. However, this does not do justice to the view that the twelve provinces have submitted to me by consensus. I also saw no reason, in the letter sent to me by the IPO, to believe that they would be willing to raise the 10 million from the budget of the other 11 provinces. That is why I believe that this would conflict with their urgent appeal to adopt this law now. If I thought this was unfair or wrong, I would not suggest this. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr Dijkgraaf wishes to respond to this. Or does the Minister have any more on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	No, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	The minister's coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	I've got something left. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman. You're the boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	If you don't mind if I add a little more. Mr Amhaouch co-signed the motion. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that I have received a letter from my predecessor in office on the Interior, and now, Commissioner of the King and President of the IPO, Mrs Bijleveld, requesting that this bill with this division be brought into the Chamber and defended. I find that at odds with going back now and saying that the 10 million must be raised by the other 11 provinces. I'd like to advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	I think that's a little short. I have not yet heard anyone dispute that the agreement was literally made at the time in the IPO: we agree unanimously with the law in accordance with the divisive measures. I do not hear parties saying that they are going to vote against the law. At the same time, the agreement was simply shared in the context of the IPO and the IPO also agreed that a solution should be found for the 10 million. It was hoped that this would be done through the Zeeland Fund or through the Balkenende Committee. That didn't work. Then the Minister can have a conversation with the IPO and say: we have a problem with each other and how are we going to solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	But we have to keep taking it seriously. Here we establish the criteria for a distribution key within the Province Fund by law. I do not have anything to do with what was exchanged in the consultation. I have to deal with the outcome, namely a letter to the House of Representatives. The President of the IPO says on behalf of the twelve provinces: stick to this division. So that's the basis for the bill. At least that is an important precondition for the legislative proposal before us. I have no reason to think that the other eleven provinces say: we all put something in the pot for a redistribution. Then that letter should have shown that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	This fund manager is about a fair distribution across all provinces. The Minister himself was right to say that I consider the opinion of the IPO to be very important, but I am determined. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De minister kan niet anders dan vaststellen dat er, in ieder geval in Zeeland, maar ook breed, veel discussie is over de 10 miljoen die mist.]] I find it special that the Minister, as fund manager, is not even prepared to discuss it. I understand it's gonna be a tough conversation. I also understand that it may be necessary to discuss this for a long time. But that's what you do as a fund manager, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	I had that conversation. The contribution of the IPO has been recorded again for me and for the Dutch Parliament. That input is: be wise, and now lay down in the law this division, as it is based on the advice of the Jansen Commission requested by the IPO and on its impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	Where there's a will, there's a way. Following on from what Mr Dijkgraaf says, is the Minister, as fund manager, prepared to enter into the discussion? There are now two theories. The IPO agrees with the present legislative proposal, but at the same time recognises the deficiency for Zeeland. We are not asking for extra money from the Minister, but we are asking him to take the lead to start the discussion with the IPO. If it shows that the IPO is not going to do anything and so it remains as it is and the IPO does not apply the principle of solidarity, then that is also an answer that the Minister can come back with. It's too easy to say: there's a letter from the IPO, there's a division and we don't listen to Zeeland anymore, especially since it's the smallest province; we just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	I immediately acknowledge that it was better for the province of Zeeland if there was more money. You may call that a deficit from me, but that also applies to the province of Brabant. That is where there is widespread crime on the one hand, and on the other hand there is a great deal of opportunity at provincial level in various regions of Brabant that could be done much more. If we go through the provinces, I can see even more opportunities for provinces to do extremely useful things about the budget they have. Only, we have to keep taking each other seriously. This is the law in front of you, with a key. I ask for the support of the Chamber for that, and I get it. I'm grateful for that. It is then a little cheap to go straight to the IPO without money and say: I want to talk to you again about whether we should divide it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	Just now it was Overijssel and now it is Brabant, but we ask for attention for Zeeland. Since 2011, that province has a structural deficit of 10 million. Once again, we are not asking the Minister for extra money, we are asking the Minister to take the lead to start the discussion. The Minister is going to fill it out for the IPO himself, but if the IPO says "we leave it at this," that is an important message to the Chamber. That is the only thing the CDA, and I believe the SGP, is asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	I have here a letter dated 13 September 2016 in which the IPO says, "We leave it at that; we believe that this should be the division within the Province Fund and that this should be unanimity'. I am prepared to do what Mr Veldman and Mrs Fokke have requested in their motion, namely to try, in consultation with the IPO, to come up with a plan of action within two years to review the foundations of the Province Fund. I shall therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. I have noted that it is ultimately a zero-sum game, that it is a fixed pot of money, and that it is always the case that one gets better, while the other gets worse. If indeed, as in this motion is repeated and what is also consistent, you are asking for less on the basis of costs and more on the basis of real-life return on capital and on economics... Sorry, I take this again. If you are going to do less on the basis of costs and more on the basis of differences in economic growth, I understand that this means that economic growth and the chance to do so are a reason to allocate a little more money, because I do not read that Mr Veldman says: you are growing so well, so if you are able to increase with a little less money, then you are going to take money away from those regions that are growing less strongly for the better. It will then have to be seen whether, for example, Zeeland will benefit from this, but so will other regions in the country. So this is going to be a real political issue, but nevertheless I think it is important, also for a new coalition, for a new government, to try to do so at least. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	The votes on the motions will take place on Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister for their contributions.
