ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u1	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by mentioning the death of Helmut Kohl, a great man in every respect. Let me do that by quoting from a very nice description, a very nice article following the death of Helmut Kohl of the historian P.G. Kroeger on the CDA website this week. I'll get three things out of that. In the first place he describes the person Kohl very nicely. He says: a man who lived and fought, eager and greedy, a man who with his full person fell into the orbit, into the office, with great Lebensfreude. I think we all recognize that. The second was very nice and that was about the Bundeskanzler der Einheit, the reunification. He describes this in a very special way: he did so with "Die leise Töne," there was no shot, there were no tough issues, it wasn't noisy coup, there was no death. That is very special when you consider the enormous political and social upheaval that the GDR ended up in the Federal Republic of Germany in 1990, after the fall of the wall in 1989. I repeat to him that we bow with empathy and respect to Helmut Kohl's beard. This is in response to a number of comments made by several Members of Parliament. I thought I'd divide my answer into a few cubes. The first will be on Friday's visit to the French President and a number of other talks taking place this week against the background of the Dutch position in Europe. Then there is the Brexit, then migration, then European defence cooperation, the internal market and finally a pile of capital selecta. I'll start with the conversations that are taking place these days. A few weeks ago, sometime in April, we had a conversation at the Catshuis with Ireland and Denmark. Last Friday was the conversation with Macron. Last Monday, so the day before yesterday, there was a visit to Warsaw, to the V4 with the Benelux. With the same Benelux there is a conversation tonight with the Baltics and the Scandics. This is a discussion with the Swedish Prime Minister, senior representatives of Finland and Denmark and the two prime ministers and the President of the Balticum. The European Council will also take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Why are we doing this? We do this all the time. It may seem a lot now, all together, but it is very important that we in Europe are talking very intensively about the future of the European Union post-brexit. How do we jointly look at a number of major issues relating to migration, external borders, the internal market and the role of Europe in all these areas? I understand that question, but it is not, as the journalists sometimes say, if politicians sometimes think, a need to provide some sort of counterweight to a Franco-German axis. That Franco-German ash is fine. Europe will not go further if France and Germany, as the largest Member States of the euro area, do not cooperate. If the United Kingdom has left Europe, they are also Europe's two largest economies. But let's not think that's necessarily going the wrong way. We influence Germany. We have good relationships with them, personal, political and social. But we also have those good relations with France. I'm zooming in on the conversation with the French president last Friday. That was a good talk. We have talked about migration, trade, Brexit and the future of Europe. You can actually see that we think about a lot of these subjects in a similar way. I would like to mention the importance of further deepening the European internal market. I call it ensuring that trade is free trade, but that it also takes place in a proper and fair way. We have to make sure we're not the crazy Henkie in our relationship with other parts of the world, who could do things here that we can't do there. It's about that kind of thing. I refer to the whole issue of dealing with the Detachment Directive: equal pay in equal conditions for equal work. We have also noted that with the election of this French president and with the shift in thinking in countries like the Netherlands about, for example, dealing with posting, we have come a little closer together. So if you could build the bridge between a country such as the Netherlands and a country such as France, you could in fact run a very large part of the European discourse together. So we will continue to do so intensively. We will also work intensively together in the field of migration. There are also great ambitions. So we are talking about trade, about the internal market, about migration and, of course, about the future of the euro area. My contribution to the discussion on the future of the euro area was: if France reforms, if France now succeeds in delivering Europe's basic promise, and in particular the euro area's basic promise that you will grow to a higher level of convergence, because France is transforming and thereby gaining more economic growth, which, I hope and expect, will put further pressure on Italy to take the necessary reform measures, then that basic promise of higher convergence will be better realised. It takes a number of risks out of the Eurosystem. Then there are all kinds of questions and discussions about the European Finance Ministers, a euro area budget and so on. It is known that the Netherlands does not see the added value of these instruments. However, I would like to make the point that these issues are becoming less relevant. Why do you need shock absorption funds like a euro area budget? Because there would be imbalances in the Eurosystem. As France rehabilitates, these imbalances decrease and so it is much less necessary. Suppose we link European funds such as structural funds, agricultural funds and cohesion funds more closely to concrete commitments made with countries to achieve, for example, reforms of an economy or social reforms. That's a Dutch idea. France does not support it immediately, but we did discuss it at length. If a certain degree of automation is taken out, then the existing European money flows will actually achieve what some would like to achieve with such a euro area budget. By looking at it that way, you're getting away from the symbols. After all, they all become pacifiers and no one knows exactly what flavor comes out when you start sucking on that teat. But by doing it this way, you detox the discussion, you also make it much more practical and you come back to the basic question: how do you ensure that these countries grow to a higher level of convergence in the euro area? Some of the specific questions put by the Chamber concern the V4. Have we addressed them to non-compliance with the obligations regarding relocation and the rule of law? Of course we did. I once again told the Dutch press that it is wrong that they do not meet the obligations. It is clear that we have a difference of opinion with the Visegrád group. But we strongly agree with these countries on the importance of a strong internal market. The whole issue of the rule of law was also discussed in detail in my talks with the Polish Prime Minister when she visited The Hague in February. Why are we doing this with the Benelux? Mr Van Rooijen also asked that question. The Benelux is the oldest cooperation within the European Union. I would remind you that this cooperation has been in place since 1944, so far before the ECSC was set up. It's a good partnership. We are currently with three prime ministers who think similar things to this one. There are, of course, political differences between these three countries; let us not be unclear about this. Belgium traditionally has a more federalist view of Europe than the Netherlands; we simply need to be clear about that. But when it comes to concrete issues, there is indeed a very good cooperation in the Benelux. We see the importance of that. Tonight we are receiving three of our colleagues from the Baltic Member States and the Scandinavian Member States. It is in the Netherlands because the Netherlands is chairman of the Benelux, but it is a welcome by the Benelux countries in the country currently holding the Benelux Presidency, namely the Netherlands. In addition, you look again at what binds you. We must ensure that we divide Europe into spheres of influence and permanent groups. But it is a fact that this almost hanzeatic alliance, which runs from the Baltic to the Netherlands via Scandinavia, has similar positions on a number of issues such as free trade, the role of Europe and concentrating on the core tasks. So it's interesting to talk to each other on a regular basis. Let me mention another country: Spain. Spain is a country that has a position similar to the position of the Netherlands on many issues, while we are often tempted to think: Spain belongs to the southern European Member States, so they will think very differently. That's not true. We must be careful to divide it into fixed spheres of influence and permanent groups. Me and you are all here for the Dutch interest. It is in the Dutch interest that we in Europe should look for practical cooperation with many countries on many topics. With the UK leaving, we are losing a voice for free trade and a voice for a less aesthetic Europe. This increases the importance of working with other countries. But I am convinced that the election of this French President will also make France less 'coalistic' and less ethatic than it has been. There is, of course, a different tone coming from Paris now than the tone we have heard since 1958. Of course, we also seek these contacts with other countries. The ties with Austria are excellent. We'll keep it good, too. I don't see the Franco-German axis as a problem. In size, we are the sixth Member State of the European Union and the fifth Member State of the euro area. After us, there's a really big hole before you get to the next one. So we are a very serious player, but we are also much smaller than the top three; we can be real about that too. You have the top three, then Spain comes, then we come and then there's another big hole of a few hundred billion before you get to Belgium. And we are one of the six founders, so it makes sense that we are always trying to play a leading role. I agree that we should make good use of the cooperation within the Benelux countries. This is how we do it. For each European summit there is already intensive consultation with the Benelux countries, with Bettel and Michel, the Luxembourg and Belgian colleagues. Strasbourg has not been discussed with the French President. That does not make much sense either, because it requires a treaty change. We really need to separate this from the EEA and EBA discussions, as some have suggested. You all know, of course, protocol number 6 to the European Treaty. I suppose that's familiar. Then, of course, there is always the demand for an active Europe debate in the Netherlands. It seems to me that we have that permanently, even here in the Chamber as far as I am concerned. I'll be happy to be a part of it. At least in the coming months, in the next six months, that will be an intensive social debate. There's no doubt about that. I have said a number of things about the deepening of EMU. Questions have been asked about that. I believe that I have answered the questions concerning cooperation with other countries, in relation to the future of Europe. Unless there's interruptions, I see at least one of them, I'm gonna continue with the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u3	Then I'm just in time. The Prime Minister says: then, of course, there is always this demand for a Europe debate. My point is and was the following in my contribution. There's a lot going on. There are all Juncker proposals and reflection papers from the European Commission. The decision-making process is very fast. It will take place before the end of the year. In order for this decision to take place properly, a major and important debate is a prerequisite. What is the cabinet going to do, perhaps somewhat handicapped by this missionary status, to have that debate with the Chamber, with civil society organisations and perhaps with the other governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u4	Quite frankly, I do not believe in a broad public debate, as Mr De Brauw did in the 1970s on the Dutch nuclear policy. I really don't believe in that. We are the representatives of the people, at least you, but I am also temporarily reunited, and we need to have a thorough discussion here with each other. The cabinet understands itself permanently with every conceivable social organisation. That's a lot of them. The media are on top of it, let's face it. There is a great deal of attention to the debate on Europe. So I would say to Mr Van Ojik: GroenLinks obviously has a lot of experience with large halls with many people. They also have the time for now that they are no longer in the formation, so there will also come from that. But I do not see a task for the cabinet now to book a large room and hold that debate. We're not a discussion club. We just have to work with each other in business, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u5	The point is that it is the cabinet that will soon have to determine a position in consultation with this Parliament on all these major issues. That is the background to my question and the background to my light concern. GroenLinks' measurement-ups will not be the forum where that decision-making should ultimately take place, unless the Prime Minister wishes to refer that decision-making to it. This seems to me to be something in which the cabinet will have a first responsibility. The question is, how do you prepare that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'm joking about those meetups right now, but of course I'm very jealous that it's possible to get 10,000 people into the room. I think that's very handsome. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that this debate should be well conducted, but we are doing so primarily here. I have never been in favour of a cabinet that understands itself with the Lower House, with the People's Assembly, going on the road again. From the opposition, but not as opposition leader, that was Mrs Kant; then the SP was bigger than the VVD at the time I made a bit of a mockery of the 100-day tour: moving into the country and then talking to everyone, in the vein of "what do you really think about it and can we write it down again?" I cannot find a place, whether it be for employers and employees, for civil society organisations or for discussions with anyone, where it is not even about the future of Europe. So let me look at the form Mr Van Ojik is thinking of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u7	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u8	Of course, Mr. Chairman. The point is that the cabinet must ultimately determine its position on the crucial questions for the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u9	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u10	And that shouldn't happen in a few years, but in a few months. The Prime Minister says: I don't see much in this and I actually do it every day, but what exactly are the moment, the place and the modality of having that discussion, which should guide the Dutch attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u11	The cabinet finally determines its position in the Council of Ministers with regard to those reflection papers. That's what we're gonna do there, and it's gonna go to the room. There is a lot of social discussion about the reflection papers, including in the media. The cabinet position on this will undoubtedly lead to further discussion and then we will discuss it in the Chamber. I think that's okay by itself. I am open to suggestions, but I am a little afraid that only the very general call for "a social discussion" will sink into the books of halls and in: tell you what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Prime Minister said that if Macron is going through his agenda, France is going to make up its mind in the euro area and we are not really having any problems in European Monetary Union anymore. I think that is a very optimistic and perhaps rather naive presentation of things. It brings me to a question that the Prime Minister does not answer, namely: where are the red lines for this cabinet when it comes to completing EMU? Does the Prime Minister think it is a good idea for a European Finance Minister to come? Does the Prime Minister think it is a good idea for the euro area to have more resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think that is well known: the Dutch cabinet does not see the added value of these institutional ideas. We do not see this added value. We don't think they're necessary. We are making a number of proposals to ensure that convergence is accelerated, because that acceleration has to be achieved, but it starts and ends... No, it does not start and ends, it starts with the second largest euro area Member State making some structural changes to its socio-economic model. That is what I hope will happen for the first time since 1958. I have a very good hope for that with this president. That's crucial. Italy will then continue to reform, for the first time in decades. There's been a start by Renzi, but that's stopped again. If that happens later, it is very important and then you have to support it from the collective. A few things are very important for that. Firstly, the banking union. We have to finish it, so that there is a separation between countries and banks, because banks have often sucked the countries into trouble. Separating the sovereign and banking sectors is therefore very important. That is what the banking union is for, and that is what the capital market union is for, of course. The second is what I just mentioned: better linking payments to Member States from the EU budget and implementing structural reforms. Existing financial flows from the EU budget should therefore be more closely linked to what countries are actually implementing reforms. Let me mention a third, too, that is a proposal that the Netherlands in Europe is advocating, namely that investors in government bonds take losses before Member States receive a European support programme. If you look now at the Greek, Portuguese or Irish aid programmes, the private sector and investors in government bonds have actually been compensated for their imminent losses. I would like to move towards a system in which we get a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism in Europe, in which we let the more private sector take that type of loss. Those losses must be made before those countries have access to European aid funds, as is also the case with the Banking Union bail-in, before you have access to any collective provision. These are a number of proposals which, in my opinion, together with a reformed France and a reformed Italy, lead to greater stability in the euro area. I can start with drawing all kinds of clean red lines here, but I prefer to formulate it in substance rather than with the heavy political term of the red line. I believe that, from the point of view of content, there is no added value and no use in demonstrating Eurobonds, the European Finance Minister or euro area budgets, because they are already there in part, and have no added value in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u14	A clear statement about where the cabinet stands. Fear of a red line when it's actually drawn. The Prime Minister says there's no need, because we can do other things. I think it's just very good that the Prime Minister not only says that it's not necessary, but that it's just not going to happen. After all, we know that the agenda of the French President Macron is a different one, namely to regulate it at European level. The wish is for these countries to do what is right for the euro area, which is, moreover, the dynamics in France and Italy, which are still sovereign Member States in these areas. We know Macron says: put that on a European level. So we can say 'it is not necessary, because if it all works as we hope, it will not happen', but the decision would actually be taken this year, when these structural economic reforms will only take place much later. Is the Netherlands now drawing a red line with a finance minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u15	I really choose my own words. Red lines are what you get at the SP if you are willing to form a cabinet after the VVD has worked with the PVV. After four years of working with the Labour Party, there is suddenly a red line, namely: the VVD is neoliberal and we do not work with it. I keep the SP in mind: watch out, words have meaning. Red lines lead to some kind of ideological we-they-thinking I don't believe in. I'll approach it from the point of view of content. We do not see the added value of these instruments. We don't think they're necessary. So we're against it, too. Beware of terms, for "red lines" Jede Konsequenz führt zum Teufel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u16	It's really nice for the Prime Minister to call our red line. We do not cooperate with the VVD because on issues such as the labour market, care and housing, precisely things that are crucial for people, we would never come to a comparison. Moreover, as far as the future of the European Union is concerned, perhaps we would be a little closer together. I just asked a question. Wouldn't it be good to say as the Netherlands more firmly: we don't want it, we don't think it's necessary, but we don't want it? The choice of yes or no lies much earlier in the reflection "if everything works, it is not necessary."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u17	I am conducting the debate, unlike the SP, from the point of view of content. If I fly it from its contents, it won't be necessary. I choose my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u18	It is quite something to say here that we would not do it from the point of view of content. Maybe it's not just from the content and we're doing both, but maybe with a little less naivety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u20	I note a certain ease with which the far-reaching proposals presented by Juncker and the integration note that is still to be written by Germany and France are thrown off the table in the sense of: well, well, that's not going so hard, we have an influence on the French and the Germans and we are making new friends. I don't think we're gonna make it. Even when we make new friends in the European Union, a quick calculation teaches that you need a majority for most decisions. Then you're not gonna make it with some like-minded countries, if they're already so similar-minded. That's still to be seen. If the Prime Minister says that he does not consider certain proposals desirable or necessary, how is he going to get them off the table at the forthcoming summit? Experience shows that if they stay down, they stay down until autumn. Then it's on the table and we're just getting paged. Then we wake up with a European Finance Minister and God knows what else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u21	The Netherlands will have to agree to that. Part of that also calls for treaty changes. I don't see that risk. Moreover, it is not on the agenda of this summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u22	The fact that it is not on the agenda does not seem to me to be an argument, because these proposals are just floating around. If you say "we don't think it's desirable and necessary," why don't we just wipe it off the table right away? Then we do not have to discuss this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yes, but unlike the PVV, I do want to continue to hold the debate from the point of view of content in Europe. I can say 'there are red lines here and we are not doing all of this', but I want to convince countries from the content of what is the best route to that basic promise of the euro, namely that we all have more prosperity, more progress and more employment. At the moment, we do not have enough of these in the euro area collective because a few very large economies are lagging behind. I have great faith in the new French President and I think that will now be different. I would also like to support him in every respect. If you let that happen, I hope that will happen in combination with some sensible ideas that the Netherlands is now bringing into the discussion, you will have the discussion from the point of view of content. That's stronger than shouting "against, we don't" et cetera. It's clear. The Netherlands does not see the added value of these proposals, but does have alternatives. Then you're doing the discussion in an intelligent way. I think that would be wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u24	The Prime Minister said in an interim that the Netherlands is in favour of a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. That's interesting. Countries will then have to write off before they receive European aid. That's interesting. However, Greece's sovereign debt is fully in public hands, ESM and EFSF. If Greece receives aid, then tens of billions must immediately be written off on the assets of the Netherlands and Germany. Of all the other euro countries, thousands of billions have been bought up by the European Central Bank. If Italy were to participate, Italy would have to write off tens, if not hundreds of millions, of outstanding debt currently held by the system of European central banks, that is to say all of us. Then we'll still pay. What exactly does the Prime Minister intend to do with the sovereign debt restructuring mechanism? Is there anything on paper? This could be a very expensive exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u25	Of course, we don't want these things. I have just explained that I think you should learn lessons from the Greek aid operation, the Portuguese aid operation and the Irish aid operation. There you can see that public money has made up for private investors. It is then true that the public sector has almost all the public debt in its hands. There's not much you can do about that now. What you can do with Greece is to encourage that country to continue to grow consistently in the coming years and to reduce that problem in a sensible way step by step. That's not what this is about. This idea applies to the case where a future country would decide in the future to use the European emergency mechanism. Then you see what you can do to each other with the private debt held by private bondholders in that country. Then how do you ensure that there is a bail-in, as much as possible by the private bond holders, before the country gets access to the emergency fund? So this is not about Greece. We are against debt forgiveness for Greece. We want to participate in the agreements of May 2016 on debt relief, but we are opposed to debt write-off. So it's not about Greece, it's about future cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u26	So we are talking about current members of the euro area. Of all these members, the central banks bought about a third of the debts. The private bondholders will say: if you write down 25% on my debt, you will write down 25% on it. This depreciation will have to be equal to equal loans, so all the loans now held by the European Central Bank and the system of European central banks will have to take place. The result is a loss of hundreds of billions in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u27	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr President, it is a long question because we are talking about a lot of money again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u29	All the questions are long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm against it. That is not my proposal at all. Mr Omtzigt is now asking a question about a proposal that I have not made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Prime Minister just said here, before Mrs Maeijer's interruption, clearly: I am in favour of a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism, first of all written off on current loans. If I go through with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u32	To private bondholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u33	To private bondholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u34	Let Mr Omtzigt put it precisely. That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u35	And then the Prime Minister expects to distinguish between private bond holders and public bond holders, so that there will be write-off on private bond holders and that there will be no write-off on public bond holders, i.e. central banks that have bought up far too much of those loans and thereby assumed the risk that the Prime Minister himself calls themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u36	Is this a subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u37	No, this isn't a subject. I think we should stop talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u38	We really need to confine ourselves to today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr Omtzigt gives a misrepresentation of what I am saying here. That's one. This is not my proposal at all, and he knows it well. What we are talking about now is two things: we are discussing proposals that live in the French President's circles to see if, through a number of institutional changes, we can achieve more stability in the euro area. I would like to point out that the pressure on the need for this stability will be reduced if a country such as France is to reform and if a country such as Italy is to do so. I argue that you should also look very closely at what you can do to ensure that private bond holders take losses first. So I'm not talking about state sectors, I'm talking about private bond holders. Not taxpayers should, by definition, bear the costs. That is also what we have done in the banking union. The banking union also has a bail-in to a certain extent. Then the government comes into view and a further bail-in takes place according to a ladder system. I think you should think about this. We do not yet have a complete legislative proposal for this. No, we are bringing this into the European debate. If you want to stay away from discussions about eurobonds, shock absorption funds and so on, we think it is much more appropriate to look at how to link European funds first and foremost to concrete reforms. This is therefore a question of the existing money flows through the multiannual budget. Secondly, you have to look at how to ensure that the private bond holders take losses before a country can use that emergency mechanism. This is not the case for Greece, because it is far too far. But we need to learn from how things went in Greece. And of course we can ask a thousand questions and think of risks. These risks are outlined by Mr Omtzigt here. If our ideas were to come to policy, we would have to mitigate those risks as best we can; I can see that, and I agree entirely with Mr Omtzigt in that regard. But there is no detailed proposal here. This is a Dutch contribution to the discussion. In doing so, we want to ensure that we achieve further stabilisation of the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u40	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u41	The Prime Minister did just say that he is a supporter of sovereign debt restructurings. And let's be honest: the CDA is also in favour of making private bondholders pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u42	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u43	However, you may be in favour of it, but there's a big angel in that system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u44	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u45	Indeed, what the ECB has bought has to be written off. There are no reserves for this and the European system of central banks is going bankrupt. That's a big deal. The Prime Minister is now saying: this is what we are discussing. Then, at some point, I expect a non-paper, a paper or a proposal that addresses this type of objection, so that we understand what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u46	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u47	No, it's far from that. We are now discussing whether to draw red lines, period. And does the thinking stop after that? Or do you say: we are not in favour of ideas about a minister of finance, eurobonds and so on. Moreover, these are not proposals now from the French Government. Anyway, others have made that kind of proposal. We say: do you want to talk about shock absorption funds/eurozone budgets and a European Minister of Finance, or are you looking for other ways that will increase stability in the euro area, apart from reforms in France and Italy? That's what we're looking for. And, of course, every new instrument and every new idea will entail ten risks. Mr Omtzigt sketches a few. You'll have to mitigate that, I agree with Mr Omtzigt. But you should not say in advance: we do not do it at all because there are risks associated with these new proposals. If we do that, we'll be empty-handed at some point. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u48	I hear the Prime Minister say that President Macron has actually said that he wants certain reforms, including in the euro area. Isn't it a little strange that he said that to the Prime Minister last week, when he hasn't even come to reform in his own country? The lack of reform in France is also the cause of this somewhat weak euro. Until very recently, it was thought that populism could also be won in France. Does the Prime Minister see the risk of France wanting to talk more about reforms in the euro area than about reforms in France itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u49	No, not at all. President Macron has a number of views on the euro area, which do not converge in all respects with ours. But he has also made it clear in many speeches that the reform of the French economy is now his first priority. That is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u50	However, I repeat my question, because I have not yet had an answer. Isn't it strange that President Macron is now talking about reforms in Europe? Shouldn't you have told him, but first make sure that you carry out those reforms in France?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm just answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u52	Shouldn't you have said, and then we're gonna start doing the other thing? It shouldn't happen at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u53	But Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm sorry. I'm just answering the question. He thinks he should reform France first. But he also has views about afterward. He told me what ideas he was playing with. So we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u54	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u55	That answer is indeed clear. I would like to ask another question. Isn't the Prime Minister afraid of the following? If France reforms somewhat, it will be rewarded by Germany and perhaps by other countries as well by a more flexible budget rule. There is nothing of that in France. Isn't that what the Prime Minister's afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u56	I can shudder all day in the Tower that there is a wrong proposal coming from somewhere, but my job is to protect this country from bad proposals and to promote good proposals. Part of us have to do it ourselves. I was just talking to Mr Omtzigt about such a proposal. There are always risks in that and you have to mitigate them. I think that's my job, not being scared all day, so "oh, what can anyone come up with?'. I'm not a German commentator. My job is to come together with you to come up with sensible ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u58	Then about the Brexit. May I begin by expressing my surprise at Mr Baudet and Mrs Maeijer from the Forum of Democracy and the PVV respectively? I think they take a bizarre position on two points in my view. They remain in favour of a nexit. That has two huge consequences, really huge consequences. Our most important task as politicians is to keep the country safe and protect it. Look at the world, at the unpredictability in America, at the situation in Russia, at what is happening in the Middle East, at Syria, at North Africa, at the large migratory flows, at the huge issues we face. Then, from that primary goal that we have, namely to protect and keep this country safe, it is a very important task to ensure that the Netherlands is embedded in strong international structures. That is NATO, that is the European Union. These are associations that we are in our best interest to ensure that we keep this country safe. Therefore, if you make a concrete plea for a Brexit and completely ignore what is happening in the United Kingdom at the moment... It was already an institutional crisis, it has now become a major political crisis. It's a monetary crisis. The pound has fallen and inflation is rising. Wage increases can't keep up with that anymore. Last night, the BBC evening newsreels opened with a speech by the President of the Central Bank of England and the Minister of Finance. They agree and say: the Brexit is currently bringing very great risks to Britain's future prosperity. And we see it: all the major American business banks are pulling away from the City of London. Major investments are not taking place. Mr Baudet says that the retail sector is doing well. That's what's happening dramatically. Why? Because at the moment, due to the state of the pound, huge price increases have to be made on primary necessities in the UK, which has a direct impact not only on the sales figures of the large retail chains, but also on the daily lives of a lot of people, who have lost a lot more money for their margarine, for the daily needs of their lives. I therefore find this position incomprehensible and I shall fight it to the last degree. It is bad for our safety and it is bad for the Netherlands. Specifically, the Brexit also shows the enormous economic consequences of this, regardless of the security issues. The negotiations have begun. We have to note that it is positive, I think, that the UK has agreed to the EU's proposal for the establishment and timing of the negotiations. The British have accepted, as it seems, phased negotiations. First, the rights of citizens and the financial settlement must be clarified. Then there's talk about the future relationship. I have been asked how I look at the British elections: what do they mean for the British position? I have to be a little careful not to comment on Britain as some sort of Dr. Clavan. He would say, "the situation is unimaginable." I just shouldn't. We just need to see what the British are coming up with. Of course, we remain in favour of a situation in which Britain remains associated with the European Union as much as possible, especially with the internal market. On the other hand, they have to abide by the four freedoms. That debate in England will take place in the near future. As this enormous economic and financial impact becomes more acute, it may also reach the British tabloids and have a further impact, I expect, on the general opinion in the United Kingdom. This may have an impact on the political position. I try to stay away from terms like "hard Brexit" or "soft Brexit," because I never know exactly what that means. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, we hope that the British will remain members of the internal market and the customs union and that we will have to check whether there are any forms in which this can be done for them, politically and socially. I come to the candidacy for the European Medicines Agency. Mr Mulder asked a question about this. I believe that the Netherlands has proven in recent decades that it can be an excellent host country for this type of organisation. Schiphol Airport is one of the most connected airports in Europe. We can also guarantee continuity. We can well support the transition. The Netherlands scores high on most of the criteria identified by the Commission. There are six criteria. Is there a building, for example, and what about its accessibility? It also examines whether a country can guarantee business continuity, or the continuity of the organisation. Those are some of those six criteria. In addition to the criterion of geographical distribution, where we do not, of course, meet the criteria we have laid down by the Commission. There is now a lot of discussion about the precise decision-making on this issue. We're gonna see how that goes. Maybe I can finish the questions on the Brexit before Mr Van Rooijen gets the floor for an interruption. A question was also asked about the Northern Irish Party. If I'm gonna reflect on that now, it's a little Clavan-ish, too. It is clear, however, that it is very important for the Netherlands that some basic rights in the area of lgbt should continue to apply to the whole of the United Kingdom, at least for the European Union. We will be keen on that. I do not have the impression in any way that the British Government wants to make concessions on these points. If she was going to, then the leader of the Scottish tories will keep the British tories sharp at this point. Finally, I come to the access to the portal. I am going to answer now, but if there is a follow-up question, it goes directly to Mr Koenders, because I do not know more than this answer. I read it literally: "In the written consultation on the RAZ on 22 May, the Chamber was informed that direct access to the EU-27 delegates portal for Brexit negotiations is not possible. The cabinet now meets the Chamber and will ensure that limité documents directly available to the Chamber in the normal EU-28 situation are shared with the Chamber for confidential inspection through the delegates portal for the EU-27 situation. The use of reading rooms is a suitable tool for this purpose. There is contact with the Registry on the technical elaboration of the information arrangements mentioned in the written consultation. The aim is to establish a definitive framework for agreements on the provision of information to the Lower House and the Brexit negotiations before the summer recess of the Chamber." I have no idea what I have just read out, so I refer to Mr Koenders for every follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u59	Perhaps it would be a good thing if I went back to what the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister made it quite clear to me that I do not understand that he does not necessarily want to talk about a soft or a hard Brexit. Shortly afterwards, he said a sentence that remained with me, namely: we hope, as the Netherlands, of course, that there can be a customs union with a trade agreement, but also with freedoms... If he thinks that this should be possible with England, does he not think that it is very attractive for other countries to bring in that customs union and trade agreement? He suggested something like "then something must happen to those freedoms." I think that is a very dangerous approach, because that is almost a decoy for potential exiters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u60	If I had said it like that when Mr Van Rooijen says it now, then he is absolutely right, because everyone will be thrilled at the front door. No, I didn't say that. I said that if England wants to remain involved in the customs union and the internal market, then the acceptance of the authority of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and the four freedoms in that regard should be heard. You can't do cherrypicking. My hope is, of course, that in the coming months this awareness will be further understood there, also because of the enormous economic impact and political uncertainty now in the United Kingdom. A delay in the whole Brexit process, even if only temporarily, to keep access to the internal market with all the consequences of that, as Mr Van Rooijen has just outlined, because these will apply in full to the United Kingdom, of course, would be very much in Dutch interest. That would be very much in the Dutch interest. But that's all coffee-dipping, because for the time being the negotiator David Davis also says: we are leaving the customs union, we do not want Luxembourg anymore and we are leaving the internal market. He keeps repeating those texts, but the Minister of Finance chose a different angle last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u61	I welcome this clarification. Perhaps Mr Baudet will be able to review the debate in the United Kingdom last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u62	This will be very useful for his political development. Then I come to the issue of refugee reception. First of all, I can say that there is no deal with Libya and that there is no money going to Libyan authorities either. The Minister for Foreign Affairs recently made this clear in the general consultation on the RAZ. We work in Libya with official agencies such as the Libyan Coast Guard and the Directorate for Combat of Illegal Migration. We also work with civil society organisations, with IOM and UNHCR, but there is no money going to the Libyan authorities. The 90 million package, to which Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Leijten referred, aims to improve the conditions of migrants, refugees and host communities. At the same time, efforts are also being made to provide a way out of these centres by promoting voluntary return to the countries of origin. You can also see that this is starting to work. Last year it was more than 2,500 people and this year already almost 4,500. It's getting a little better. Then a question was asked about incidents involving the Libyan Air Force and NGOs. Written questions have been asked about this. These questions will soon be removed in writing; they will be answered by my foreign minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I will not go into that now. It's not on the agenda tomorrow either. In addition, questions have been asked about the common asylum policy, i.e. matters within the European Union. The question is how we deal with things. To be honest, it is difficult at the moment to assess the extent to which we can reach agreements this year. Although the Maltese Presidency has been very hard on it, it has not been able to reach an agreement with each other. Of course, we want an early conclusion to the revision of the CEAS and are therefore working constructively on various proposals that are currently being discussed in Brussels. The Council must reach agreement on a very large number of proposals. We prefer to do that with its 28s, but that is not an easy task. Once again, Secretary of State Dijkhoff regularly consults with the Chamber on this matter. The package approach means that nothing has been decided until everything has been decided. For an agreement to be reached on a piece of legislation, it is important to know what the final content of the other proposals is. That is why we consider this package approach to be so important, also because everything is working on everything. When you talk about distributing refugees across Europe, of course, that has everything to do with other aspects of the GEAS. In my view, Germany and the Commission do not want to let this go, but the Commission and Member States want to take steps and see where agreement could be reached. The Netherlands is happy to take part in this approach to see where possibilities for agreement are. This is, of course, taking into account the idea that we will continue to look at this as a single package. Yes, of course, there are many countries working on migration partnerships. Mr Van Ojik asked for this and of course he knows a lot more about it than I do. You then make agreements that serve the interests of both parties: tackling human trafficking, promoting return, improving reception, but also focusing on root causes and the needs of African partners. The European Union can develop a certain leverage because we have the EU trust fund, we have trade and we have the visa policy. Here, too, there are opportunities that we can make better and wider use of, for example, to promote return cooperation. As Mr Van Ojik made a plea to Clingendael last Thursday, it is also important to consider whether we can make agreements with other countries similar to those with Turkey. These agreements in Africa, for example, will never be the same, but they will have to meet the same requirements in the framework conditions, namely within all national conventions and in close cooperation with international organisations. There are also some successes. In Niger, intensive efforts have been made to address transition and trafficking in human beings. We can see that we are getting a little deeper in Africa with a number of countries, but, for example, with Algeria, much more progress has been made in recent months. There is currently no concrete request from the Commission, I say to the PVV, for additional funding from the Member States. But it is an illusion, I say immediately, to think that the Netherlands can only solve these big problems. We will always have to do this in cooperation with the countries of Africa. And yes, that includes money. If we do not want to do so, we must withdraw to the island of the Netherlands. The thing is, though, we're not an island. This means that we are taking great risks with stability in this society. We need to break this business model of the human smugglers. There have been 1,400 deaths this year in the Mediterranean. That number is threatening to rise dramatically for the rest of the year, and we must avoid that. We must ensure that there is decent reception in the countries of Africa itself. I just mentioned the visa instrument. This can be used if third countries do not contribute structurally to the return of their own nationals. In the extreme case you can insert this instrument into the mix to apply pressure. That is the point of migration, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u63	I am, of course, pleased that the Prime Minister is following my performances so intensively, even outside this Chamber. There was indeed a seminar at Clingendael. That's exactly what these migration deals were about. I have said that it is very important to distinguish between economic and political refugees. 90% of the people crossing the Mediterranean come from...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u64	You're not going to repeat what you told me in Clingendael.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u65	I want to avoid a misunderstanding about what I said there. It is important to distinguish between economic and political refugees, and it is important to distinguish between returning the asylum seeker to their country of origin and returning, for example, political refugees to a third country. I think it is important that the Prime Minister agrees with the importance of this distinction. Otherwise, we may think we're in agreement, but we're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u66	That's definitely important. For each type of problem you need a specific approach. Turkey-like agreements are needed to provide reception for political refugees, in this case Syrian refugees. They can be met against decent standards in Turkey. That's close to Syria, in the communities in southern Turkey. We put a lot of money into that, I'll just say to the PVV. These things aren't free. You will need to channel your development aid more in that direction, to take away the root causes and contribute to developing this kind of reception capacity. In itself, it's true. You will have to develop different approaches to the different issues. That's right. However, I saw a degree of convergence between Mr Van Ojik's thinking and my thinking on this point. I liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u67	I would, of course, like to give that to the Prime Minister. The question is, in the end, whether this also means, in the Prime Minister's view, that we are sending political refugees, Syrians, who are currently the largest group of political refugees among the group of people crossing the Mediterranean, back to countries where they have never been. Is he going to argue this in Brussels? We're not doing it with Libya. Are we going to send them back to Tunisia or Niger, for example? I would like to know what the Prime Minister's commitment is in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u68	You can't cut it like that. I believe that there are limits to what Europe can accept and that political refugees should not necessarily be received in Europe, provided that reception takes place elsewhere at decent standards, within all international conventions. Inside you have a number of complicated considerations to make. Mr Van Ojik mentioned a few. However, these will be unique for the type of appointment you make. These agreements will never be a literal copy of the agreements between the European Union and Turkey, although some of the conditions will be the same, namely that it takes place within the international legal order, within all international conventions, and that you try to do so in close cooperation with the relevant international organisations. However, it is almost impossible to say exactly what it looks like in advance. I would just like to mention one other aspect. D66 has always objected to the fact that the agreements with Turkey were linked to political agreements on speeding up visa liberalisation and re-energising the accession negotiations. I understand that, too. I also agreed with D66 on this in itself, but it was necessary to make that type of agreement in order to reach larger agreements. Preferably, you do not tie an agreement with Turkey to that type of political agreement; of course, D66 is quite right about that. In other countries this will be different. There are no accession negotiations with Algeria or Tunisia, but there may be other issues involved. The cleaner you can make such an appointment, really focused on the item, the less you can involve other political things. You must also ensure that you always act within all international rules and within the national legal order and in cooperation with relevant organisations. That's what matters to me. Maybe one more thing. My visit to Macron on Friday was also about this. Not Mr Macron personally, but I blamed France a little bit for providing more lip service in this area in recent years than it actively participated, but Macron is really going to do that differently. He wants to be much more involved. He's really on top of it. He also realizes that France has a huge influence in the francophone part of Africa and that it can really help to get things done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u69	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u70	We obviously agree on the importance of distinguishing between the different categories. The question that lingers in my head is the next one. Will the Netherlands in Brussels, through the Prime Minister, or will it not advocate, for example, that a country such as Tunisia, I have just mentioned a number of other countries, Syria's political refugees knocking on the door in Europe, take over from us? Is that the Dutch position?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u71	No. That is not necessary, because they are going to Turkey. However, if it is a question of political refugees from Africa, it is possible for me to do so, provided that all international agreements are complied with. That is not necessary for the Syrians, because there is currently an agreement between Europe and Turkey. However, if it is political refugees from Africa, for example, people from Eritrea who come to Europe, and if you are able to agree with transit countries or with countries on the coast of Africa on reception, and if we can also organise that reception there, then it is conceivable that we will invest heavily in reception capacity, including education and hospitals, then I think it is absolutely justifiable that you do so. This is not a literal copy of the agreements with Turkey. I understand from him that Mr Van Ojik would also be very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u72	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience. The point is that, among other things, because of the Turkey deal, the largest group of political refugees currently travelling across the Mediterranean are Syrians. They're not Nigerians or anything. We all agree on this: they must return to the country of origin, however annoying it may be for them. They're Syrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u74	Okay. What Mr Van Ojik means, then, is that the flow of refugees can move and eventually pass through Africa. Then things will be different, but so far, the vast majority of people who have managed to reach Europe risk crossing the Aegean Sea. Of course, there's always a waterbed effect, as it's so awfully called. If you're trying to get it under control there, currents can move. Mr Van Ojik is right about that, but at the moment it is not the aim to specifically receive Syrian refugees in Africa. However, I do not rule that out either if Mr Van Ojik is referring to this in the context of a shift in the flow of refugees. I believe that you should also stand for political agreements, within all international legal standards and rules, on the reception of political refugees in countries outside Europe. For me, that is at the heart of the agreements we have made with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u75	I would just like to respond to the Prime Minister's remark that not everything is free and that the PVV must also be aware of this. I am very aware of this, just as care for our older people is not free either. The PVV chooses to spend that money in its own country rather than send it to Africa. That's what my question is about. Because of all these partnerships that have now been concluded, with Niger, Nigeria, Ethiopia and even more countries, the Prime Minister himself has just said that they are intended to stop migration, to combat smuggling and to allow for return. Now that migration is still taking place and it is increasing again, and people are not returning. So to what extent does the Prime Minister share the conclusion that this approach simply fails?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u76	I'm very much in favour of populism, which should be good. But this is the false populist combination of "how do you control migratory flows?" with care for the elderly in the Netherlands. The aim is very simple, namely that older people following this debate say: we are going to vote PVV next time, because we are also in favour of more money going to the elderly than to the shelter in Africa. If you want to do so politically, tell the whole story and explain that if you don't spend this money on it, there is a good chance that this stream of refugees across the Mediterranean, which was 31% higher this year than last year, will not be brought under control and that if you can't control it, the elderly in the Netherlands will eventually be faced with crisis-like situations again as we saw them in 2015. I believe that one of the most important tasks we as politicians have is to show that we are in control, that we are protecting this country, that we are contributing to a decent reception of refugees worldwide, including in the Netherlands, but not necessarily only in the Netherlands. Explain that to the elderly. I'm willing to do that. And explain that at the same time, of course and quite rightly, we are still investing in the care of the elderly. Then you have an intelligent discussion. Mrs. Maeijer is right. This isn't gonna work overnight. The agreements with Turkey have quickly become a success. The PVV was against these agreements with Turkey. In the meantime, the flow of refugees across the Aegean has fallen by more than 95%. If Mrs Maeijer had been in charge, or her party, that agreement would not have come. So we would have maintained the situation as in 2015. Then the PVV would have closed the border. The leader of the PVV himself said in an interview with the Algemeen Dagblad: closing the border cannot be done at all, that is simply a technical, social and economic disaster. So there are sensible texts coming out of the PVV on that point. In other words, the PVV would have stood here without an alternative, then it would have had no alternative. So you just have to do this sort of thing, make agreements, invest, take out root causes, see how you can take care of refugees in the region, and also if the Netherlands continue to receive refugees, but in numbers that are socially manageable here. I think that is a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u77	The PVV always comes from sensible texts, so I am glad that the Prime Minister sees that as well. We can now see that this power is moving, because some 70,000 people are coming to Italy via the Mediterranean Sea alone this year. So what the European Union is doing, and what Mr Rutte is supporting, is not working. Next year we will be standing here again, he may have made another deal and the power is moving. It just doesn't work. We pump money into something that doesn't work, while the alternative is to close our borders and at least keep those people from entering our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u78	This isn't true. The Syrian refugee stream involved hundreds of thousands of people in 2015, which even increased in Germany to almost a million refugees who tried to come to Germany between September 2015 and the first months of 2016. That was completely out of control. We are talking about an increase in the flow from Africa, but in absolute numbers that are much lower than the numbers from Syria. You talk about tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands. Secondly, Syria's flow of refugees has also, in most cases, had an opportunity and vision of asylum here. This does not apply to the African flow, because the vast majority of people who try to reach Europe from Africa have no chance of asylum, but are economically migrant and in many cases end up in the informal economy in Italy or in France. That is still very undesirable. People are dying and this leads to circumstances where you don't want to live. That is why I say: remove root causes, make agreements with countries, get this under control step by step. And yes, driving doesn't always go at once. It's not like you get lucky when you do something, but if you don't do something, we run the big risk of getting out of control again. I think that's the worst thing that can happen as politics to its own people. That feeling was felt by the Netherlands in October/November 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u79	You spoke of agreements between Europe and a number of African countries. I have a specific question about Italy. Is it true that Italy has entered into or is about to enter into agreements with one of the three Libyan regimes, namely the regime supported by the UN in particular? How does the Prime Minister feel about a country doing this separately from the EU? Not that I am against it, but my question is whether this is true and whether there will be more such initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Van Ojik knows more about this, but it would be silly to ask him for help on this point. I do not know exactly the latest state of play in the Italian-Libyan negotiations. What I do know is that at the summit in Malta in February the Italian Prime Minister reported on his progress with Libya to get with one of the governments in Libya I do not know exactly which government, because there are quite a lot of governments in Libya to make agreements; I can figure out for the second term whether that is exactly what Mr Van Rooijen is suggesting here. Europe has taken note of this. For example, Germany but also we strongly urge that its follow-up takes place, of course, within all international conventions and the international legal order. These are bilateral agreements between Italy and Libya.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u81	There is now unlimited interference, which was not meant to happen. So I really want to limit the number of interruptions right now. Now for the final interruptions, I suggest that the Prime Minister finish his story. Everyone has a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u82	Another very brief interruption. Do I understand from the Prime Minister that he might agree with this kind of bilateral agreement, that Greece is going to do something in itself, provided they are fit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u83	No, in general, I can't say yes to that. The European Council in Malta said that we are happy in itself that Italy is committed to Libya so actively, but that it must be done within all international agreements. Italy also confirms that it wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u84	The Prime Minister just said that there are only tens of thousands of people on the route to Italy. A recent report by a British diplomat and the German intelligence services refers to up to 6 million migrants waiting, including 1 million in Libya, 1 million in Egypt and nearly 1 million in Jordan. That makes quite a difference. If there are some tens of thousands, you will not notice that here in terms of reception capacity if you spread it over 26 countries, but when it comes to millions it is something else. What is the Prime Minister's assessment: how many migrants are we going to talk about here? Otherwise, we will have a crisis bigger than the one we had two years ago between Greece and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u85	That report is available to all MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u86	Yes, I'm afraid you'll have to read Die Welt in German.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u87	I refer to the figures as we know them. The influx is 31% higher until the end of May this year than in the same period in 2016. We'll talk about something less than 60,000 people. I compared that to the stream of Syrian refugees. It finally ran into the million. So it's totally incomparable. What Mr Omtzigt is referring to is another point: how many people would like to cross? If you look at Syria, for example, we know that there are 22 million people living in Syria and that there are 7 million refugees within Syria and 4 million are now outside Syria. If you look through those glasses, there's a potential stream of Syrians to Europe of 4 million. Of course, that does not happen, because they remain largely in Turkey and, to a very large extent, in Syria itself. Looking at the flow of refugees from Africa, I can't confirm these millions of figures, because I don't have that report ready here. I do know with Mr Omtzig that if we do not get this kind of thing under control, if we do not make agreements, if we do not remove the root causes, if we do not use the whole instrument and are not prepared to make Turkey-like agreements with countries in Africa, we will be at great risk of letting things go out of control again. I'm gonna fight hard to prevent that. I don't want to do that twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u88	I welcome the commitment to make sure it doesn't happen again. We are talking about 1 million people in Libya. The situation in Libya for these people is much worse than that in the countries where they come from. Nigeria and Mali are relatively safe countries compared to when you stay in one of the three areas where there are now several Libyan governments. So the question is not whether they want to leave, but when they want to make the crossing. What are the prime minister's chances that all this will happen very quickly and that we will have a huge problem here this summer? That's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u89	That's what we're trying to prevent. I have just mentioned the figures of the number of people returning to countries of origin. That number has increased by 40%. You can see, in that respect, that things can work out. The number of people returning from Libya on a voluntary basis to countries of origin has increased enormously, partly because, of course, one sees the enormous risks you take when crossing. There's a good chance you're gonna die. More than 1,000 people have been killed this year crossing the Mediterranean. It's really a humanitarian tragedy. It is a cynical business model that is used there. So we're trying to get that under control in every possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u90	Now the Prime Minister comes up with another argument: the increased number of people who would return. Is my observation that less than 1% of the people arriving and returning to Italy are actually returning?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u91	A very large part disappears into the informal economy. So we don't even see them. And as far as they're seen, it's true. One of the things we're doing is getting countries to take them back. So I don't know what Mr. Omtzigt is looking for right now. I think we agree on the urgency. I'm just trying to understand. I'll continue with the questions. Mr Omtzigt asked questions about the European army. I can assure him that we do not want that and that we are looking at how we can achieve more by the same means. All the proposals currently before us in the European Council, for example the proposal on the European Defence Fund, are aimed at this. I can say to Mr Verhoeven that cooperation with Germany and Belgium is very intensive. We have joint tank divisions with the Germans, we have the Air Mobile Brigade, we have headquarters in Münster, we have with the Belgians the common defence of airspace and we have an almost complete integration of the two naval parts of the military. So it's being worked out incredibly hard. Mrs Kuik asked how competition in the defence sector relates to European cooperation in the field of defence. What you see now is that the defence sector has been organized strongly along national lines. Procurement does not always have to take place at European level, because Member States can keep it within the defence sector at national level on the basis of the argument of the importance of national security. So this leads to a great deal of fragmentation, not making the most of taxpayers' money. The Commission's proposal for a European Defence Fund is intended as a means of seduction, in order to increase cooperation between Member States and businesses. In order to be eligible for funding from that fund, there should be proposals from at least three companies from at least two Member States. Thus, through such a positive incentive and incentive, you try to make that highly organised defence sector organised along national lines in the interest of taxpayers a little more common. Mr Mulder asked how the cabinet ensures that Dutch companies receive orders. We are strongly committed to ensuring that the European Defence Fund is also sufficiently open to small and medium-sized enterprises. We also call for better cross-border market access for SMEs within the European Union, because small and medium-sized enterprises in the Dutch defence sector are very strong. These companies are often suppliers for large companies. We therefore believe that they should be able to benefit. Mr Mulder spoke about the internal market. The European Council will indeed talk about this. This is actually the result of our Presidency in 2016. It was agreed that the different strategies should be completed and implemented by the end of 2018. This is the stock-taking, the intermediate moment, where we will talk about the digital single market, but also about an internal market strategy for goods and services. Even after 2018, of course, we will continue this operation, including the removal of national barriers, the improvement of enforcement and the digital internal market. As I said earlier, progress is also needed in the area of a fair internal market. As you know, the agreement on the Detachment Directive has been postponed. Hopefully we'll get there in October. In the context of the internal market, incoming EU President, Estonia, I see my colleague organising the digital summit at the end of September 2017 in Tallinn, where the importance of a digital Europe is central and the European Council will welcome the Commission's intention for a new cybersecurity strategy. Dutch counterparts in this type of area are the northern countries, the Baltic countries and sometimes also countries from cooperation in the V4. Which brings me to Mrs. Kuik's questions about cybersecurity. Why not a European Silicon Valley? Today we saw the successor of the current Dutch envoy in the field of StartupDelta make a plea to make a Silicon Valley just for the Netherlands. Interestingly, the economy of the Randstad is as big as that of Silicon Valley. The Netherlands has a scale that indicates that we as a country should be able to compete with Silicon Valley, a terminal of a lot of investments. This is happening at the moment, because the Netherlands is very well connected in the area of the modern economy. I am thinking, for example, of the number of cables that come ashore here. The Netherlands has a very strong ICT sector. Companies in the United States looking at Europe are very interested in the Netherlands, also in a broader sense. We also invest in quantum ourselves. The European Commission is investing in the digital infrastructure under Horizon 2020. All these programmes aim to stimulate innovation. Against that backdrop, there is that other question from Mrs. Kuik about cybersecurity. Without wanting to go through Philips' entire order list here, that was not her intention, I say that the introduction of cybersecurity policy is intended and should be helpful in preventing improper equipment from the European market. Cybersecurity is a growth market and offers companies real opportunities. The question is how to realize this. What responsibility can you place with the companies? How long can that take? I believe that it is important for companies to be able to take advantage of the scale of the European market and to reduce the barriers on that market. It is important that we learn what an ecosystem of parties can do to stimulate innovation. You have to bring together suppliers and customers, even when it comes to innovation money, on the point of Mrs Kuik's point. I think it is logical to talk in this debate about the responsibility of the companies which ultimately have to go beyond the traditional guarantee period. That is one of the points made by Mrs Kuik, more in questioning than in asking. I agree with her in itself, but it will have to be in such a broader approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mrs. Chicken, I see you're trying to interrupt. I know you haven't interrupted me so far, but I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u93	Certainly, perhaps a little more in conclusion. I imagine cybersecurity at the EU summit is a bit weird, given the Brexit debate and all sorts of other things. At the same time, I would ask the Prime Minister and the next cabinet to deal with this as a matter of priority. We see part of it as a cyber drain, because we do stimulate all kinds of innovations, but then we have to buy back technology from American companies. The biggest cybersecurity experts warn us that we have no idea what's coming at us in five or ten years. The biggest issues are in the field of security and economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u94	Absolutely. See also today's released DTM. Mr Van Ojik asked about the Paris agreements. The agreements made in Europe on a contribution to the climate agreement are well known. As far as I am concerned, they stand as a house: 40% lower emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. We in Europe are working hard to implement these agreements. It is now very much about how we can strengthen the emissions trading system. How can we make the distribution of CO reduction across Member States legally binding in sectors outside the system? That is the so-called non-ETS. There was a strong debate at last Monday's Environment Council. Here comes another report from Secretary of State Dijksma. In this sense, it is not on the agenda of this European Council. I can assure Mr Van Ojik that the Netherlands will continue to take the lead in working towards effective implementation of the agreements made in Paris. And the sentence in tomorrow's Council conclusions to which Mr Van Ojik refers is mainly intended as a response, a political signal from Europe, a re-affirmation: Trump can do what he wants, but we will continue. That's why it says that phrase. It's not a weakening, it's an evocation. It is an evocative moment: this is what we want to achieve with each other. I was also asked by one of my fellow Members, Mr Omtzigt, what agreements have been reached with the countries of Kosovo, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the radicalisation that is threatening to take place there. By the way, there are considerable differences between these countries. Especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is real cause for concern, but in other countries perhaps to a lesser extent. But in itself, these are countries where this plays. It is therefore also important to note that this is one of the priority regions for European cooperation in the fight against terrorism. We are committed to reducing this threat in several ways. A Western Balkans Counter-Terrorism Initiative has been set up to coordinate the activities of the European Union in these countries. There are several agencies active in the Western Balkans to support capacity building. Counter-terrorism is also standard part of political dialogue with these countries. Of course, the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) also looks at projects to strengthen capacity in the Balkans on this issue. The Netherlands itself has also appointed someone who works as a stabilisation coordinator in our relationship with this region, because it is true that jihadists try to come to Europe in different ways. It is very important to avoid that. I would also like to take away the picture that the Balkan route would be open, let alone for certain groups. Many border measures have been taken on this route. But Mr Omtzigt also knows that. Mrs Leijten of the Socialist Party says that wages must be raised. She wants lower prices and higher wages. It is true that the Dutch trade surplus has a complex background. Moreover, our high pension savings and natural gas also play a role in this. As part of the country-specific recommendation, the European Commission has recommended that we create conditions for higher real wage growth, in view of the role of the social partners. De Nederlandsche Bank has also said a few things about this. I'd like to stay steady for now. I believe that this whole issue of wage formation in the Netherlands lies primarily with the social partners, i.e. employers and employees. That's unique to our country. In the almost seven years I have been allowed to serve this office, I have learned that everything I say about wage development leads to divergent comments from the social partners, but at least does not encourage them to come out together. So I will keep my mouth shut about it and note that the Commission and De Nederlandsche Bank have made these comments. Minister Koenders has spoken at various times about suspending pre-accession aid to Turkey, including at the informal Foreign Affairs Council, but, as we know, there is insufficient support for this. I think that answers most of the questions. Questions have also been asked about the level of coverage of pensions, about the European Pension Union and about the state of affairs in Greece, but all these issues are really not on the agenda at this European Council. Moreover, at other times, the Chamber discusses all these matters with members of the Cabinet. So my suggestion would be that I leave those questions unanswered for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u95	Are you ready? Thank you. Now let's move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and for his insight into the new talks, the formation of coalitions, the spheres of influence and all the other combinations created by the new relations within Europe. He gave a clear answer. He also gave a look in the kitchen and made it clear that you can't simplify it, because you can't pretend it's three or four fixed blocks. In fact, according to the Prime Minister, there are surprising connections and connections to many different countries on different topics. I think it is, but also that there are a number of lines that can really benefit the Netherlands. I found it positive to hear that the Prime Minister sees the Franco-German axis with Merkel and Macron as something that can be very promising in solving citizens' problems in a way that is sensible, without narrowing the discussion down to pro-European or anti-European. Look for solutions to the big issues that affect people. These are the issues we all call energy, climate, terror, external border monitoring and migration. I believe that this is a sensible and sober attitude that fits in with the current situation. The second thing I was pleased with, and it is also good to note, is that the Prime Minister fully admits that the link with which D66 has always struggled from money to Turkey to improve reception, speed up talks on EU membership and visa-free travel is improper. That was our main objection, and the Prime Minister now states, in retrospect, that this is the case and that you make every appointment when it has to be made. He says that in the future we must learn from that. Learning from things that have happened in the past in the future is always good to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister. He will understand that I am looking forward to the evocative climate we are going to experience tomorrow from Brussels. That's a promise. I also welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has addressed the differences in migration between the situation in 2015 and now. This is not just about the numbers that are very different, but also about the composition of the groups of refugees coming to Europe. He has also been very clear in the end: it is not excluded that political refugees from Europe will eventually return to Africa. That's how I understood him. With all the convergence he has seen, that is something where our paths will continue to separate. Then there is the debate on the different scenarios of Europe. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister: no broad-based debate on nuclear energy, as was once the case a long time ago. That outcome wasn't that crazy, by the way, but it didn't happen that much. Not even a 100-day tour, but something else. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a debate on the future of the Union is taking place within the EU;]] [[having noted that in this context the European Commission publishes a White Paper and discussion papers on five different subjects;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify how the various scenarios developed by the Commission relate to Dutch interests and positions adopted so far, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof prior to the October 2017 European Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. The Prime Minister walks easily over the Franco-German axis. It may happen in the case of European integration that, if there are proposals in the autumn, after the elections in Germany, most other countries are lagging behind. Then it is quite a job to block them with possible minority blocks. That does not seem to me to be a positive approach either. In any case, it is therefore important to continue to work intensively with both. I thought the Prime Minister said the same thing. The Prime Minister opts for all kinds of loose forms of cooperation. This seems tactically useful, but we also consider a more stable form of cooperation to be important. That is why we strongly advocate closer cooperation within the EU, with Belgium and Luxembourg. It is good that the Prime Minister is already consulting with other countries in the Benelux context, but we believe that more needs to be done together. On this point, I shall table a motion which has been co-signed by Mr Bishop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, with the departure of the United Kingdom, an ally important to the Netherlands in the European Union falls away;]] [[Whereas it is important for the position of the Netherlands in the European Union to cooperate with others;]] [[Whereas, due to its political and economic position within the European Union, the Benelux countries are an important factor;]] [[calls on the Government to explore ways of intensifying cooperation with Belgium and Luxembourg within the European Union and to inform the Chamber by letter of the results of the reconnaissance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u99	The Prime Minister made a comment about Spain. It is sometimes thought that people there think so much differently than we do. Is it an idea that in the short term the Benelux countries will have official consultations, such as with the Visegrád countries and tonight with other countries, with Spain and perhaps with Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions in the usual pleasant way. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is important to keep doing business with France and with Germany, to maintain good contacts and to invest in them. It remains that a reinforced Franco-German axis is now emerging. In order not to be forced into a position with other Member States that you are really only following, I ask the Prime Minister to pursue the path taken with determination with regard to consultation with other smaller Member States. I'm filing a motion for that. I would ask the Prime Minister to regard it as a support for the policy that is now running for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u101	You're giving a judgment in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes, I'd be happy to do that, to provide a framework. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, with the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the "British brake" on the European integration process is disappearing, which seems to shift power relations within the EU in favour of France and Germany;]] [[Whereas, with the planned departure of the United Kingdom from the EU, the EU will continue to pursue further European integration to the detriment of a significant part of the democratic self-government of the European Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to invest in the creation of a broad and stable front of, inter alia, northern Member States in order to provide a necessary and effective counterweight to the "French-German axis" and to ensure the best possible democratic self-government of the Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. Independence and sovereignty; that is what the Netherlands must strive for for the Dutch, our freedom and our future. A nexit is the only way to ensure that the Netherlands regains control of its own country, its own laws, its own money and its own borders, resulting in fewer immigrants and less Islam. To that end, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Berlin, Paris and Brussels are taking advantage of the debate on the future of the European Union to take new steps towards a European superstate;]] [[whereas this movement towards greater EU integration goes completely against the convincing "no" of the Dutch people in the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution;]] [[whereas a nexit is the only way to ensure that the Netherlands becomes free and sovereign;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent the Netherlands from being messed up in a European superstate until such time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1237]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr President, I have three minutes left. Three minutes and twenty seconds. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I am waiting for the documents, but perhaps it would be a good idea for him to get involved at the European summit at some point. After all, as a parliament, we must be able to control it. Then radicalization. He calls Bosnia and Herzegovina. I understand that he does not mention Macedonia, but please do not underestimate what is happening in Kosovo at the moment. The camps that are there of ISIS supporters and the trainings that are given there are really a danger to what is happening in Europe. There are indeed all kinds of Western Balkan strategies, but they are not working for the time being. The figures relating to refugees, I really have to say, migrants coming from Libya, are appalling. We shall be discussing this again next time. It's a problem that's out of control. I hope that the pre-accession aid to Turkey will be suspended. How can we continue to tell Turkey that what is happening there is not right and they continue to pay? Before I make my two motions, I would like to make a comment on the casual remark that the Dutch Government is thinking about sovereign debt restructuring. That means you're writing off on government debt. We understand that private bond holders might have had to write more off on Greece or Portugal. Here, however, the QE program is revenged. The European central banks have bought a third and sometimes even more of the sovereign debt available from countries. When a country writes off, the problem ends up in the public sector. In the short term, we would like to receive a commitment that I am looking for information on what the government means by a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism and what its framework conditions are. I assume the Prime Minister can promise that the Minister of Finance will inform the Chamber about this. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the President of DNB concluded that the ECB's policy leads to a 5 to 10% lower coverage rate of Dutch pension funds;]] [[noting that this is EUR 70 to 140 billion, or in the order of up to €10,000 per pension participant;]] [[invites the Government to provide an official response to these figures within one month and to indicate whether it considers action to be necessary or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of deadly terrorist attacks in the Union has increased significantly;]] [[noting that there are IS camps in EU candidate countries and Europol finds that the Balkan route is still a gateway for jihad fighters to Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate the EU approach adopted by the Dutch Government to achieve greater cooperation in the field of EU counter-terrorism between EU countries and with candidate countries, and to share it with the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1239]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief question about my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u106	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u107	It's about the Maeijer/Wilders motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u108	That's the motion in part No. 1237.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u109	In the first recital, a piece of the sentence has disappeared. This should be: "whereas this move towards more EU integration goes completely against the convincing 'no' of the Dutch people in the referendum on the European Constitution in 2005.'
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u110	I would ask you to change the motion by hand and pass it on, and we will amend the motion. I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt and give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is going through Europe, looking for new friends. But one thing we already know is that the French President Macron wants to complete the European monetary union further. Merkel has joined and our Prime Minister says that it is no longer necessary in the future, so I do not really have to oppose, for example, a European Minister for Finance. If the Prime Minister has all kinds of philosophies about a future in which it is no longer necessary, then I wish him every success. But it is also time to say clearly where we stand. If the Prime Minister doesn't do that, the Chamber will have to do it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the European Commission is not and should not become a European government;]] [[calls on the Government, now and in the future, to actively oppose the arrival of a European Minister for Finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u112	The Brexit shouldn't be a hard Brexit. That was the thrust of the previous debates. If I ask the Prime Minister what he wants with the United Kingdom and with that United Kingdom, he is vague about it. Because, he says, we should not open the door to the departure of all kinds of other countries. In other words, we should not make the future attractive for the United Kingdom, because then even more Member States would leave the European Union. I think that is a mistake. Maybe I misunderstood? Our trade surplus has gone beyond European rules for years. The Netherlands is the best boy in the class. If a country-specific recommendation on the Netherlands states that the AWBZ is too expensive, the AWBZ is immediately thrown overboard. But that trade surplus is not being dealt with. Nevertheless, this leads to higher wages in our country. That's good for our country. It is not only the SP that proposes this, but also the Netherlands Bank, the Central Planning Bureau and the International Monetary Fund and so on. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, inter alia, DNB, the CPB, the European Commission and the IMF advocated wage increases in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to indicate how the call to raise wages in the Netherlands is being implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u113	I find it too easy when it is said: we are not about that. Because we have all carried out these other things well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes. Then we'll listen to the Prime Minister's reaction to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1234, by Mr Van Ojik, deals with the different scenarios and how they relate to Dutch interests. I have some difficulty with this motion because it refers to the October 2017 European Council. I do not know at all whether this will be on the agenda of the October 2017 European Council. Here's what I'm gonna do? I do not want to commit to any moment now, because that moment may not have any substantive relevance because the subject is not on the agenda. In his motion, Mr Van Ojik asked the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of how the scenarios relate to Dutch interests and previously adopted positions. I promise we'll always do that. That's what I'm saying: that's what we're gonna do. But that information comes at a time when it is also relevant and needs to be addressed here. Frankly, I would like to leave it at that. If the motion is perhaps not necessary, Mr Van Ojik could withdraw it, also because I consider the timing of the European Council to be arbitrary. Otherwise, I would have to discourage the motion, while what Mr Van Ojik wants with it in substance, I am prepared to do by means of this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u116	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u117	That would indeed mean that I could withdraw the motion, but with the remark that it might not be for the October European Council, but at least well in time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u119	... to be able to conduct the discussion before decisions are taken in Europe. If that's part of the commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u121	...I'd like to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u122	Here's to it. We're passing this part of the stenogram through... no, we don't have to, because we're all there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u123	Since Mr Van Ojik's motion (No) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u124	Yeah, once. Constructive. That's the way it is. I come to the Van Rooijen/Bisschop motion on part No. 1235. This is what we're doing, so the motion is really unnecessary. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen, but, also in the context of the environment, this motion must be copied and distributed again. It would be my tendency to discourage this motion, because we are all doing this with the Benelux. There's no discussion about that at all. The Bishop's motion in part No. 1236 I really dissuade, because she assumes something exactly different from the way I look at it. I'm not afraid of a Franco-German ash. We do not need to counter that. I really dissuade that motion. We're even for that Franco-German ash. We all have axes of our own. We have a Dutch-German ash and a Dutch-French ash. There's a Franco-German axis. There is a Netherlands-Benelux-V4 axis. There's a V9, or no, nine-Member State axis coming together tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u126	It's about balance. The motions on pieces No. 1237 and 1238 I would advise the motion-Omtzigt in part No. 1239. There is ongoing discussion on this issue between Mr Omtzigt and the Minister for Finance. I think he should ask this question there. I'm not gonna do this this way right now. Nor is it on the agenda of tomorrow's European Council. Then this would suddenly come out. I therefore reject the motion for a resolution. 1239. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 1240 is support policy. So I have no objection to it, but I don't want to send a separate letter. One of my goals is always to avoid separate letters, because we still have too few civil servants to do so. I am going to find out how we are doing what is true in the motion for a resolution. 1240 to be asked, can be included in a normal report, which we do anyway. Then it gets in there. So there won't be any separate letters. I'm not gonna do that. I do not recommend the Leiten motion in part No. 1241 for the simple reason that it is completely superfluous. I've said that here three times. I'd advise against the motion, because she's unnecessary. The Leijten motion in part No. 1242 I also advise, because we have no role in it. That is up to the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you. That's how we came to the end of... we're almost at the end. Mr. Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. I suspect you are saying that we are going to vote on these motions this afternoon. I don't know if you're gonna say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yeah, that's what I was gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u130	My question is: is that necessary? There is no motion on the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, so we can vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u131	That's right. There is no motion for a resolution on this European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u132	Yeah, but we're gonna vote today anyway. Unless you need time to think about whether or not you are going to put the motions to the vote. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you for giving us the opportunity to think about this, Mr President, but we have done so in advance. I understand that the government is not writing a separate letter, but I am assuming, for the Acts, that the information will follow within two months. I will hear from the government in which report that will be, if my motion is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u134	Okay. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u135	Perhaps the Prime Minister could also give information by letter about the agreements that Italy would have made with one of the three Libyan regimes, because that was not discussed in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u136	The Prime Minister would certainly come back to that. Can we still do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u137	That's the answer I just received. I hope I can find it in the pile so soon. Yeah, here it is. It concerns Italian cooperation with Libya to combat irregular migration. On 2 February, Italy and Libya concluded a MoU on cooperation to combat illegal migration. That is not contrary to the European agreements. We welcomed this at the Malta Summit as Heads of Government. Italy is implementing it. That is allowed as long as it takes place within all agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-6.u139	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers and suspend the sitting for ten minutes. Then we'll vote.
