ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I assumed that we would speak in order of size of the groups. Apparently, my orientation wasn't entirely correct and I quickly registered. Thank you for giving me the floor first. Because of the absence of a counter-candidate, the election of the new President of the Chamber almost took place in acclamation. I suspect this would have been a unique, a novel in the history of the States-General. But even if the presidency is continued, some decorum is in place in the performance of this office. That is why there are four rounds of voting with, if necessary, an intermediate vote. We're good to go. It cannot be denied that the vote on the new President of the Chamber today is similar to a functioning assessment. Since such an assessment is confidential in nature, I do not make any statements on its content on behalf of my group, although I do not conceal the fact that the SGP Group has taken note of the President's intervention in the past year with appreciation. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is currently limited to two questions to the President-in-Office. Firstly, I would like to present to the President-in-Office a mirror of one of her famous predecessors, Mr Vondeling. He was from the same political family and President of the Chamber from 1972 to 1979. Among other things, the unsavory parliamentary source of information Parliament and Politics reports on him: "He sometimes acted as a "school master" of the Chamber. When another 75 factual questions had been raised in the plenary debate on a bill on the prison system, he asked whether or not the Justice Commission should have been convened again to ensure that this matter was dealt with differently." I would add that in this context the word "schoolmaster" is seen as a positive qualification. Of course, it always is, but I'm going to say it specifically here. The problem was, of course, that so many questions were asked in plenary; that deserved better preparation. My question to the President-in-Office is how she appreciates this pastor's performance. By the way, I should like to add that Mr Vondeling left his successor as group chairman of the PvdA only a few pieces of paper from the football club Cambuur, at least that's how the story goes. That is, of course, not to be taken into account here. Then I come to the second question. This relates to the responsibility of the President of the Chamber for the management of the House of Representatives, which is called the internal business task. I am referring in particular to care for the staff of the Chamber. We, as Members of Parliament, may not realise enough how crucial, but also how demanding the contribution of all these men and women is to the smooth functioning of the parliamentary business in all its facets. The candidate-president wrote in her letter on this point: "Many things are going well, but it is also necessary to examine the administrative organisation critically. Together with the Bureau, I have taken steps in the last year in the professionalisation and manufacturing of the official organisation, but we are not there yet." Of course, the professional and business side of the company must be well organized, but more is needed for a job joyful workweek for the employees. My second question is therefore: what possibilities does the President envisage to maintain or promote the intangible aspects of job satisfaction? I look forward to the candidate's reflections on these questions. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Those reflections will follow later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. This may be a short debate, but that certainly does not make it an unimportant debate. I just noticed that Mrs Verbeet, our former President, is also present. This shows that there are more people who think this is an extremely important debate. I would therefore like to welcome her. Thank you for coming, Mrs Verbeet. Today we decide who will be our President for the next term of office. The House of Representatives is the highest body in our democracy and the President is the calling card of that Chamber. The person in question is monitoring the democratic process in this house. It is therefore a very important function. All members of the House of Representatives have the right to stand down. In the meantime, 149 members have not made use of this possibility. There is one candidate, Mrs Arib of the Labour Party, and that is actually a nice compliment. Apparently, none of us dare challenge her. While in other parliaments the political colour sometimes outweighs the quality, we in Parliament do not need to put other candidates forward from the idea that this type of function must by definition be fulfilled by someone from one of the largest political groups. It is the first time in the Netherlands that the President of this Chamber will not come from one of the largest political groups. Moreover, we should be grateful to the PvdA Group for allowing one of its members to take up this position. After all, it means less for one member of the political group to be able to do other chamber work. We choose Chamberwide to make quality more important than party interests. That is understandable, because Mrs Arib has done well in the past period. Her style is one of "keep calm and carry on." In the end, this is the best possible response to the fragmented and polarized political landscape. For let's face it: chairing this company is not always easy. It requires a special combination of skills: strict where necessary, in order to prevent too long debate; helpful where possible, to prevent the debate from being beaten to death; direct and just, but also warm, and then with a bit of humor. Mrs Arib has proven to have this combination of qualities and this is appreciated from the left to the right. Many people are also positive outside the Chamber. Many people see Mrs Arib as our President. The many positive reactions to social media confirmed that yesterday it appeared that she was the only candidate. In short, GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports Mrs Arib. We wish her as broad a mandate as possible and good luck in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The election of a President of the Chamber is a special occasion. Last year we were able to choose from four different candidates, but this time there is only one candidate. That's telling. I agree with Mr Voortman, who has just explained this. I also agree with her remark that the PvdA Group deserves a compliment because it dares to put a candidate from its nine-member group when there is a great deal of work to be done. I would like to thank you for that. My group also congratulates her on this. The meetings, which can be both explosive and long-winded, have been managed well and pleasantly over the past period: always fair, strict when they had to and sometimes with a whirlwind as the debate asked for them. The information position of the Tweede Kamer has also been actively pursued. The average time limit for answering questions is still far too long, but has fallen. The admission of unanswered written questions to Question Time on Tuesday helped. That has been a good initiative. My group also very much appreciates the fact that we have an equal information position for all Members. However, leading parliamentary debates is not the sole task of the President. It is the most visible task, but it is not the only task. After all, the President also represents the Chamber at home and abroad. In addition, the President directs the organisation and the building. The application letter briefly addresses these areas. That raises a few questions for my group. First of all, I come to the reorganisation of a professional and functional organisation. Hundreds of people do their daily work for the House of Representatives, full of commitment and motivation. They are literally indispensable to our democracy. They deserve great appreciation. At the same time, the Lower House is not the most modern organization. What is the candidate president going to do to ensure that the House of Representatives will be better with its time in the near future? What specific plans does she have for this? When will the reorganisation of the Chamber be completed? The letter is not very clear about this. I like short letters in my own right, but a little more explanation may be given. Another aspect is the renovation from 2020 onwards, so in this parliamentary term of office. My group has always been critical of this, also because this outgoing cabinet seems to want to push through this far-reaching decision. This calls for a very strong and active role of our President-in-Office. What room for refinement of the process does it see in concrete terms? How do we keep the renovation as small-scale as possible? Does the President-in-Office, Mrs Arib, see opportunities for splitting up the renovation into sub-steps? How is she going to keep costs manageable? How does she ensure that there are not all kinds of expensive last minute wishes? Will it also ensure a fair and transparent tender, so there is not a mega package that only one party can subscribe to, but where it is cut up in different parts? I'd like to get a reaction to this. In what way does she think there should be a debate in the temporary building? Then what role is there for the Chamber and the audience? Then there are two other things that the President-in-Office does not write about at all. First of all, that's security. It is, of course, extremely important. We need to be clear about the security protocol in the event of an attack. This deserves the highest priority. As far as we are concerned, this must be clear to everyone before the summer. Recently, a man threw a bag on the Square to the Royal Marechaussee. Then the Room was partially evacuated and the Square was completely evacuated. However, in the rooms that are located on the Square could simply continue working. The information via intranet and the network was very slow. That didn't inspire confidence. What is the President-in-Office going to do to improve security? This applies not only physically, but also digitally. Yesterday it appeared that the Second Chamber network was infected by hostage software. How are we going to make all the people in the Lower House more aware of the dangers of cybercrime? My final question concerns the representation of our Chamber at home and abroad. Because of the visibility of our Chamber, D66 attaches great importance to this task. It is only for urgent reasons that it is acceptable for us to be absent, of course also with a worthy replacement. My group sees room for improvement here. I would like to receive confirmation that it will be there in the coming period. I look forward to the answers to these very important points. The fact that there's only one candidate doesn't change that. Good luck and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. We are choosing our President today, and that is not just a function. As President of the House of Representatives, you represent us all as representatives of the people. As President, you also represent our democracy. As President, you are here in this Chamber to lead the discussions, the debates. And they're sometimes emotionally or otherwise high up. The CDA Group has seen how Mrs Arib, now also a candidate, has done well in the past year. Quiet and with humor. So compliments for that. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, Mrs Arib has demonstrated herself well over the past year as our representative in external situations. I have been told that she masters French better than English, but, Mr President, there are people for whom the opposite applies, and I will not name them now. So she's forgiven. Today, however, we would like to hear how she sees her position as the head of the administration in internal situations. There is a reorganisation report from the General Administrative Service and the CDA Group attaches great importance to this. We would like to hear from her how she has manifested herself in this last year. Anyone who has ever been on a job interview or has conducted a job application procedure knows the STAR system. I would like to hear from Mrs Arib how she has done this in certain situations. So I'm talking about the S of the situation, which was her job as head of the administration, what her action was and what the result was, all of this to get a little sense of how she did it here. Because the well-being of the staff of the Chamber, and with that the performance they deliver, is of course of the utmost importance to all of us. We all know here that we can do our job with all those staff in this Chamber. I would like to make one final point. In 2020, the Chamber will move for five and a half years to the former building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a very big job organizationally. I would like to hear from Mrs Arib whether she also thinks that visitors should be able to continue to attend all the debates, that all residents of parliament should be properly housed and that there should be an opportunity at any time of relocation to hold a debate and that is the other task of us as House of Representatives to hold the government to account. Will it take care of these three points and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is a special debate. Where normally several candidates present themselves to the Chamber and there is something to choose, the outcome is already established. Whether the enthusiasm for the potential candidates is zero, or the current President is simply good. Despite the fact that there is only one candidate, it is good to consider the tasks of the President, because there is quite a lot on the agenda for the coming years. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Arib for the way in which she chaired the House of Representatives last year. She has shown that this can and has happened in difficult debates, sometimes with a wink, sometimes with a joke, sometimes with an exhortational tone if she had to. The President had to keep several balls in the air. In fact, some things are happening within the Chambers. I'm actually curious how she looks back on what went well over the past period and what might have gone less well. Can she reflect on that? Then I'll get to the information position. Mrs Arib, you will see enough points to work on in the coming period, write in your letter. That's why you're running again. You state that the Cabinet has not always provided information to the Chamber in good time, although the Cabinet has, in part at your request, made more work on the obligation to provide information. Soon there will be a new cabinet, with which new agreements will have to be made, you will write. What are you going to do in concrete terms to further strengthen the provision of information? What ideas do you have for that? In your letter from a year ago, you wrote that you wanted to ensure that minority views could be properly heard. You have also shown this: on crucial points, especially when the entire opposition asked for it, the information from the cabinet was also provided. Can we assume that your commitment will continue in the coming period? I come to the small groups, the small parties. Thirteen parties have now reached the electoral threshold, with two or more seats. This narrows the distinction between large and small parties. Mrs Arib, you have stood up for the smaller parties in the past. May I hear from you that this commitment is being continued by you, so that not only the voice of the larger parties, with fourteen or more seats, but also that of the smaller parties, is being heard? My group does not suffer from the calimero feeling, I say to reassure you. The President of the Chamber is, of course, primarily responsible for chairing and conducting debates, but together with the Registrar, the President also directs the official organisation. Work is currently under way to strengthen the organisation of the commission directors and the professionalisation and processing of the official organisation. You will write about this in your letter: we are not here yet. What do you think are the next steps that should be taken? I'm rounding up. I am curious about the answers to our questions and, of course, I am even more curious about the outcome of the possible North Korean vote later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	We're not getting ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last year, we elected Mrs. Arib as President of the Chamber. Today, at the beginning of a new term of office, we elect the President, and she is the only candidate. It is the first time in this century that there is only one candidate. That's telling. It is a compliment for your functioning in the first 14 months, Mrs Arib. I think you entered this Chamber today with a much more reassuring feeling than last January. It's also a unique opportunity for us as a room. We are dealing with a working President-in-Office, who, as she herself writes, is even more motivated by the experience of the past period to give form and substance to the fine office of President-in-Office of the Chamber. The unique opportunity is that now, with the experiences of the first fourteen months in our pocket, we can exchange views about the coming period. I am going through the three categories of work of the Presidency, which my group mentioned last year. The first aspect is the chairing of debates. That is the primary task, as Mrs Arib writes in her candidature letter. In our opinion, you are doing well, Mrs Arib. Your wish that we are all short and concise, I believe, is not always true, but in general, both time monitoring and the smooth conduct of debates are going well. At the same time, preside over is also part of the arrangement. That is always the greatest struggle, because each group has its own thoughts on what a proportionate allocation of oral questions is and what the urgency of the debates requested is. How are you going to ensure over the next period that groups recognise themselves sufficiently and proportionally in the order of questions and debates? Now that we experience the rare moment that the long-term schedule is still relatively empty, I ask whether and how you want to prevent the list from growing rapidly to a stock of over 150 debates still to be planned. The second aspect is the external representation of Parliament. There are many aspects to representation, both nationally and internationally. That is not the job of the President alone. During the debate last year, Mrs Arib rightly pointed out that the Chamber, that is us, all 150 Members of Parliament. The further argument then focused on the prestige of the Chamber, the way in which the Chamber is represented and the words we use, the language used. Those were legitimate points. I am curious to see how Mrs Arib is looking at that now, with her experience of last year. In general, therefore, I would like to ask: what role does it see for itself in achieving a representative appearance of the Chamber? There are still more aspects to it than were discussed at the time. I refer, for example, to the reception of parliamentary delegations from abroad here in the Chamber. This also requires self-reflection of the Chamber. Too often, this work amounts to too small a delegation of MPs, to canceling visits. Does Mrs Arib also see a role for herself in improving this in the coming period? As far as international representation is concerned, its presidency began when the Dutch Presidency of the European Union had already begun. A great deal was asked of Mrs Arib. How does it look back on the first 14 months of parliamentary representation? What does she like the most about that? What would it possibly do or improve in the coming period? When preparing this debate, I thought back to the previous debate. Our greatest curiosity goes, of course, to our best memory of that debate. That was the moment, I think, when she recognized Mrs Arib's saying to speak French and English and not to be Frans Timmermans, but not to be Louis van Gaal. She said she's in the middle of it a little bit. That moment stands, I think, still with everyone, but after we had gotten from the hilarity, Mrs Arib honestly said: "But I am willing to go to the nuns. That's what I've always wanted. Maybe I'll still do that." Her eyes were twinkling, just like they are now. We want, curious as we are, to know what it was like at the monastery. The third aspect is the management of the Chamber of Representatives, the least visible part of the Presidency's work, but it may be the most important at the moment, because there are a lot of major tasks ahead: professionalisation and industrialization of the administration and the renovation of the Binnenhof and its relocation. Mrs Arib told us in January 2016 with visible pride about the changes that were taking place. There was a report from the ABD. There were reorganisation plans on the shelf and three new top people were brought into the management of the Chamber. Mrs Arib was closely involved in the application committees. The most striking thing was that she characterized the Chamber as a kind of family business that concerns the involvement of employees, but also as a political company that brings with it new questions and challenges. That's a split on its own. I therefore ask Mrs Arib to reflect on the first fourteen months that, in her words of 2016, she had the final responsibility to ensure that the changes actually take place. In this reflection I am thinking of matters such as: how are the changes going, in addition to the already visible part of the new organisation of the staff around the committees, which she mentions in her letter? What is she satisfied with and what is it not about? How is cooperation with the Mt, bearing in mind its comments in the debate last year? I quote: 'We have very good management members, who do excellent work, but ultimately the President of the Chamber must realize it'. How's that interplay going? What is Mrs Arib satisfied with when it comes to managing the Chamber? What is going to be good, what might be less good and what will she do about it? Anyway, these are the familiar questions that come with a reflection. On what aspect would it wish to improve its own contribution to this process? I'm rounding up. Mrs Arib pointed out that, with the experience of the past period, she was even more motivated to give form and substance to the fine office of the President of the Chamber. I mentioned that in the beginning. I wish her every success in that. I hope that she will succeed with all those involved, MPs, MT, employees and the many external relations of the Chamber, her and our objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Being the President of this Chamber is the most ungrateful task you can imagine. We're all elected politicians. We all want to talk about every possible subject every day, but there is always one lady sitting there who has to keep her mouth shut on every subject. We can see it, too. Nobody wants to do it. We are very pleased that Mrs Arib has made herself available. We are also very pleased with the way she has done it in recent years. We have every confidence in the future. It is also an ungrateful task because 149 Members of Parliament want rules for the debate very much, but rules for another. We all find ourselves, 149, always the exception to the rule. Why don't you take care of that as chairman? We are also a very special parliament, a beautiful parliament. I noticed that recently, last weekend, when I received a visit from a politician from the United States, who had followed the elections in the Netherlands. He said: it is very special that in the Netherlands almost everyone can participate in the elections, that a lot of people can be elected and that there can be such a colorful parliament where so many groups of society are represented in it. He also mentioned the Forum for Democracy. Unfortunately, they're not here today. A new party also means new mores. Wings must be dragged back into parliament, and chandeliers. There are debates in Latin again. That's beautifully colorful, but the chairman's worried about it. We have a beautiful parliament, but we also have a powerful parliament. We don't have an elected government leader. We don't have a Constitutional Court. That makes the position of this Chamber strong. Individual members have many tools, for example to make laws. Also from the opposition it regularly succeeds to get a law through this Chamber and the Upper Chamber. This diverse parliament, where parties have to speak out and stand out against each other, is therefore always inclined to work together and achieve things. I am extremely pleased that Mrs Arib wants to continue to accompany that process in the years to come. In her application letter, the President specifically asked for attention to the information position of the Chamber. The power of this Chamber is largely based on the fact that we are given information. If we do not get that information, it will undermine the position of this Parliament. We have seen over the last few years that, even though we use our most powerful instrument, the parliamentary survey, we do not always get information very easily. A committee from this Chamber has carried out an evaluation of this and has put forward proposals for it. I would like to give the Chamber a brief discussion on these proposals. Another point is the leaking of information. Sometimes the government does not want to give us information, but sometimes the government very much likes to give information to another, for example to journalists, to the media. Every year we get the embarrassing circus that proposals for Prince's Day are deliberately leaked to the media and not sent to the Chamber, while the opposition is supposed to keep its mouth shut. How can we offer a solution to this? Is the President prepared, for example, to agree with the new government that, if leaks occur, there will always be an investigation? Another thing is Question Time. That is a bit the window of the House of Representatives, the beginning of our parliamentary week. I have to say, I find that boring. I'm really interested in politics. As SP, we have previously proposed that we organise Question Time with the chairmen of the political groups and the Prime Minister to review current events. I think that is very nice and I think that you can avoid asking for a lot of debates, because some of the issues can already be discussed in Question Time. That proposal has been made before, but it has been killed in parliament for dark reasons. Mr van Nispen has received a motion to discuss it again. Does the President have any ideas about this and can we expect a response to Van Nispen's proposal? What does a President do? A President presides, and you can see that. But behind the scenes a President does much more. A President also represents us outside, even abroad. The President is also the main manager of our official organisation. We're moving out in a few years. In view of the discussions about the seats here in the Chamber, I would suggest that in the new Chamber, the compartments can be moved with seats, as is the case in Germany. Maybe that's an idea. How will the chairman guide that process? How are we going to ensure that we can continue to do our job, this period but hopefully also the coming period? Can the President brief us on the reorganisation of the Chamber of Representatives which is now under way? What is the situation and what are we all going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. My group greatly appreciates the way in which Khadija Arib has filled out the Presidency last year. She has led the Chamber with humor, tranquility and authority. Now that there are no counter-candidates, she will have the opportunity to continue her presidency. That's great for the Chamber and a big compliment for her personally. A number of groups have thanked us for being allowed to stand for office, but in fact the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provide that everyone is to stand for office individually. The same goes for Khadija Arib, of course. This does not alter the fact that, despite all the compliments, after a year which was perhaps also considered to be an intermediate year, the Presidency of the European Parliament is now being re-established for a full period of time. That brings with it a great responsibility. The expectations are high, perhaps even more than in the past, given the great tasks that lie ahead. The renovation was already mentioned and the further reorganisation of the official organisation. These things, but also the political landscape, make her much to be expected. In that light, I would like to ask her the following questions. The 2017 elections show a divided political landscape: fragmentation threatens society. We now also see fragmentation in the Lower House. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the new cabinet and the new Chamber are faced with an important task and a major task: to bridge differences and to link the different groups of Dutch people in society. My question to Mrs Arib is, in what way, in her role as President, she can perform a role in this, both in the House of Representatives and in relation to society. I hope that she will soon be able to fulfil her role with a large mandate. It's incredibly important. This brings her into a company of beautiful women we have seen before in this office, such as Mrs Verbeet, who is here today with her partner Wim Meijer. It's good to see you here. I also hope that Mrs Arib is an example for other women, such as myself, and for young people in society, by showing that whatever your ambition and whatever your background or origin, you can live up to that ambition. That's really great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. The whole of the Netherlands is talking about it. Who's it gonna be? Who's gonna get the job? How do we find the best person for this crucial function as soon as possible? I mean, of course, the function of the Dutch national team's league coach. In addition, there is a nice place to forgive, that of President of the Chamber. That is what we are discussing today. Last time, that election lasted eight hours. Now we are out faster, because there is only one candidate. The House of Representatives has nothing to choose today. We, as representatives of the people, are the result of elections, but if we elect a President from among ourselves, then the result will be established in advance. My group would have liked to have delivered the candidate, the candidate. Someone named by friend and enemy as capable, impartial, funny, cheerful. I mean, of course, my colleague Martin Bosma. His phenomenal argument for his candidacy in 2016 surpassed everything. He wouldn't have locked himself up in the Chamber of Acts for nothing. Miles away he was ahead of the other candidates, but the result of the elections was nevertheless that he was without chance in advance, because PVV'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Bosma can run for office, can't he? I mean, he could've gone to "K" and we could've had a debate here and made a choice. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	That's a bit of a sneaky proposal, Mr Van Raak. You know what the outcome of the last election was, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	Then it will be complicated, because then we may choose, but there is only one candidate. That's weird, isn't it? You say that you are very sorry that there is only one candidate and that we have nothing to choose, but if I point out that everyone can stand for election so that we can choose, you say: yes, but then someone will not be elected. Are we allowed to choose now, or are we not allowed to choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	You created that sadness yourself by denying Mr Bosma a chance in advance in the election over a year ago. I don't think you can expect him to do that again. There is an article, Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that all Dutch people can be named on an equal footing in public service, but in practice PVVs are subject to a professional ban. They get into trouble at work, suddenly lose their jobs after years of good services when they're on a PVV list, or they miss promotions in a mysterious way. Sometimes this is even demanded in public. PvdA'er Marcouch thinks PVV's shouldn't join the police and Judge Hermans told without embarrassment on television that PVV's should never be a judge. The union FNV has formalized policy to exclude PVV's. It is precisely the politically correct people who are always squeaking about exclusion and discrimination who are ready to ban PVVs. For the record, we are the country's second party. All the Dutch people, to whom I once again express my gratitude, have made the Party for Freedom the second largest party in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Agema has a huge victim story here, but Mr Van Raak has just rightly said that any Member of Parliament, including Mr Bosma, could have done so. I also seem to recall that when he did so last time, he received more votes than the number of Members in the PVV Group. So let's not pretend here that the entire Chamber would be against a PVV candidate. If Mrs Agema says: we would have liked to have a candidate, the PVV could have asked a candidate from among herself to stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Voortman, that is exactly the same interruption as Mr Van Raak just did. You're not gonna tell me that someone has to be able to stand up when a PVV guy has no chance in advance, for which the evidence was provided over a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Arib has also applied before and was not elected at the time. She then had the courage to run again. Mrs Agema says here that there would be a professional ban. That's out of the question. If that is already imposed, it is imposed by the PVV itself, because the PVV does not choose to ask someone from its midst to be eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	All the examples I mention here are true and very sad. It is also particularly sad that the benches of GroenLinks are being robbed, because if you give up discrimination and exclusion so high, you should also defend against excluding PVVs from public functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	No one here is excluding a PVV candidate from the Presidency. The PVV itself chooses not to ask anyone from its midst to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	No, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	The PVV rules out a candidate of its own accord. You should've had the guts to run someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Voortman, we all know that a PVV man has no chance in advance. That evidence was delivered over a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs Keijzer is going to try it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes, Mrs Agema, it is called democracy and debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	Democracy is not called excluding people in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mrs Agema, I have given the floor to Mrs Keijzer. That means you're supposed to be listening. Then you can answer the question that Mrs Keijzer is going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	Exactly. That's what my interruption is about, Mr. President. Mrs Agema is actually doing a little crying here, just to quote someone she knows well. I am referring to the question of whether a PVV person has a chance to become President here. Last time there was a candidacy and there was a vote. It has just been said that there were more votes than just those of the PVV Group. Where PVVs are discriminated against, as was the case with the police at the time, the CDA Group objected. In that case, Mrs Agema has a point, but it is not a question of being pathetic. Then the PVV should have given Mr Bosma a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	Once again, more than a year ago, we saw Mr Bosma's phenomenal speech. We've also seen the outcome. Someone doesn't get elected, because PVV. That's what we see all over the country. I did not hear Mrs Keijzer just now about Mrs Arib's dual nationality, whereas Mr Buma made a point of that in election time a few weeks ago at Pauw and Jinek. Now it's not a problem anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	There's a way to give you a chance. The PVV Group did not do that. A year ago, the PVV Group did. That's when the vote was taken. There were more votes then than those of the twelve people who were in the PVV Group. So once again: being pathetic here, and by the way putting the House of Representatives in a suspicious light of discrimination, is really not enough. In doing so, Mrs Agema is wronging the serious way in which we always elect our President here. That's what we're doing today. That is why we are debating here. That is why we are asking questions to Mrs Arib. Really, this is so I started and I end up crying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	It is actually quite serious and I think Mrs Keijzer should ask herself why it works that way in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u34	I will not go on with this for too long. I agree with what the previous parties said. I would like to add two more points. First of all, there is now a new Lower House. New round, new odds, I thought. If Mr Bosma really made such a phenomenal speech last time, it could certainly be possible to do so again. So I find it disappointing that the PVV has not dared to do so. Secondly, Mr Graus of the PVV Group congratulated Mrs Arib very much. Apparently, therefore, the PVV Group itself believes that Mrs Arib is a very suitable candidate and perhaps the PVV has not dared to offer a candidate. So look critically at yourself. Just run for positions. D66 will always give each PVV user a chance based on the content. So don't pretend the PVV doesn't get a chance. The PVV didn't give itself a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u35	We all know that at D66, a PVV guy doesn't stand a chance. Our candidate for the presidency has no chance in advance, so the cordon is closed. As a PVV player, you have as many functions as I have the chance to become a Dutch national team coach. I would also like to make a point of principle. People with a dual nationality should not be eligible for such a position. The PVV has previously opposed the appointment of Mrs Albayrak and Mr Aboutaleb when they became directors and Mrs Arib when she applied earlier for the Presidency of the Chamber, and also against the former Secretary of State Veldhuijzen of Zanten, whom I personally loved, who, besides the Dutch, also holds Swedish nationality. Mind you, it has nothing to do with descent. Emotional talk can therefore be avoided. I'll let you love another country too. I can't forbid love. The point is, and we will continue to make that point as long as we are represented in this house, that having a nationality of another country in addition to Dutch nationality, obliges the holder to comply with the laws of that other country. It's not just sanding. It's not supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mrs Agema starts by saying that a PVV candidate is excluded in advance and that quality is not being considered. Next, the second part of Mrs Agema's speech refers to the fact that a candidate must be excluded in advance on the grounds that she has a Moroccan nationality, in addition to Dutch nationality. Shouldn't the quality of the candidate be the highest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u37	My group is in agreement with Mrs Arib. But should I compliment it, or is it normal for a President to treat all the groups in the House equally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u38	It's about what's the hardest thing to do, isn't it? Is that the quality or the origin? That's what this is about, isn't it? I thought the quality was supposed to weigh harder. Or does the PVV now say: when it comes to our own candidate, it is very bad that they do not look at what they can do, but when it comes to other candidates, we think that what someone can do does not count, then we have to look at other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'm not talking about descent. I'm talking about double nationality. There are more and more parties who see that this is not possible. Sybrand Buma from the CDA said in election time a few weeks ago that he also thinks that that's not possible anymore. Now I can't hear the CDA about that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u40	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u41	A dual nationality obliges the holder of that double nationality to comply with the laws of another country. That's not right. Mrs Albayrak, as Secretary of State, repeatedly got into trouble because she was not allowed to acknowledge the Armenian genocide. As a Turkish national, she could even receive a three-fold higher sentence for this, because she was not resident in Turkey. So she had to bow. Last year, when Ebru Umar was arrested in Turkey, we also saw that there is no freedom of expression for Turkish nationals. Fortunately, this Dutchman is now at home, here in the Netherlands, and also opts for the Netherlands. Those who have Turkish or Moroccan nationality must comply with Moroccan law. That law is also based on Sharia. In Morocco, there are two years in prison for homosexuality. If Mrs Arib were to start a relationship with a woman, she would not, but if she were, Moroccan law would not allow it and our President could get into trouble. That's not unthinkable. The Moroccan government actively interferes with Moroccan Dutch people through the Supreme Council of Moroccans abroad. The withdrawal of Moroccan nationality, contrary to what Mrs Arib said earlier, can, by the way, be achieved. It's a matter of will. Just appeal to Article 19, first paragraph, of the 1958 Code de la Nationalité Marocaine. I'm, I said that, wondering if the CDA only played PVV in election time a few weeks ago when the current group chairman Buma said at Pauw and Jinek that he didn't want Erdogan to say: they're my subjects. Today, none of that seems to be a problem for the CDA anymore. I have one more point. Mrs Arib is part of a group that discriminates against the PVV category by a cordon of sanitary and by voting standard against motions. That's unconstitutional. How is she going to use its influence so that the group she is and continues to be part of will stop doing so? Finally, the President of the Chamber has an exemplary role to play. May Mrs Arib set an example in her new position and return her Moroccan passport to King Mohammed VI of Morocco. Choosing the Netherlands is choosing one king: King Willem-Alexander from Wassenaar and not King Mohammed VI from Rabat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u42	I have another question for Mrs Agema. The motion in which the Chamber declared itself in favour of Hugo Borst's manifesto, was the PvdA party included? That was a motion from Mrs Klever of the PVV. If the answer is "no," the PvdA Group voted in favour of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u43	After five years I put the PvdA against the wall with pure manipulation and managed to sign a motion as well. That took five years and that was one motion! 13,000 motions were tabled in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u44	I see now where Mr Wilders gets the words crying, because that is what Mrs Agema is doing here today. I note that her statement that in this house there is a cordon sanitary towards the PVV is not correct. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs Keijzer, you've been a Member of Parliament for five years. You've been sleeping, you haven't seen every mood. Every motion by each of my colleagues received a vote against from the Labour Party in the previous period. That's categorical policy. There was one motion at the end. I did my best. There was one. But you haven't seen it, and you don't want to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u46	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u47	It's a little out of order, but it just doesn't add up to what Mrs. Agema says. There's a lot of people watching it. I think it is of the utmost importance that we stick to the facts here. What Mrs Agema is saying here is not at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mrs Keijzer, the Labour Party can speak for itself. It has been long-term, categorical policy of the Labour Party in the previous period. Members of the group have also confirmed this in the media. You're making no sense. You've been sleeping. For five years, you haven't seen what happened in front of your eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. The application committee for the office of President of the Second Chamber of the States-General. In the absence of other applications, we are discussing only one application today: that of Mrs Arib. That is in stark contrast to the previous election, when candidates were still lobbying to get the support of the small groups as well. I'll just drop right into the house: I had hoped for more applications. In any case, Martin Bosma has already indicated with a lot of complaints that he was not going to apply, because other parties exclude the PVV. I think that hypocritical crying. Bosma and Agema of the PVV complain about discrimination in an application procedure, while Geert W. and his PVV are the main breeding ground of discrimination and exclusion throughout the Netherlands. Geert W. was even convicted of it. Bosma is therefore the last person to complain about discrimination. Just to speak to Mark Rutte: Bosma shouldn't be whining, but should just apply and fight. When it comes to what Bosma hypocritically complains about discrimination, Mrs Arib is often cited as an example of how it can be done, as the model of successful emancipation and equality of opportunity in this country. If you do your best in the Netherlands, Ahmed can become mayor of Rotterdam and Khadija can even become President of the House of Representatives, so it is said. But tell Khadija in the Schilderswijk, tell Ahmed in the Afrikaanderwijk or Khadija in Nieuw-West. They run into exclusion processes day and day. They apply blue to be interviewed and are often not the only candidate. They therefore do not need to condone examples in which it happens to be possible. There is a need for tough policies. Back to the application procedure. We at DENK have read Mrs Arib's application letter with great attention, but still have a number of questions in terms of her suitability for this position. I'm going point-by-point. Question one. Mrs. Arib, didn't you use your position for political gain to campaign? The presidency can only function properly if it transcends political contradictions. Only then can it be the necessary guardian of parliamentary order. Only then will the respect of all the members of the Chamber prevail. In the past year, Mrs Arib has shown that she has great difficulty in overcoming the political contradictions, and in her application of 12 January 2016, she pointed out that the function of the Chamber Presidency is rightly independent. Unfortunately, she has shown little of that. On 28 June 2016, we could read from DENK on Nu.nl: "Room chairman Arib calls actions DENK MP unworthy." Mrs. Arib, I thought you were going to remain independent. How can a President-in-Office determine whether an elected member of parliament is unworthy? That is not up to the President of the Chamber, it is up to the electorate. The voter is wise enough to make his own judgement and does not need the opinion of the President of the Chamber at all. We at DENK would therefore like to call on Mrs Arib to keep her political preference to herself in future and never to use these words again. But unfortunately it was not just these words. After this President previously described DENK as "Room member unworthy," a few weeks later, on 16 July 2016, we could already read: "Room chairman Arib: unlike DENK, Wilders has respect for the Chamber." This President is therefore defending a man who wants less Moroccans, who calls this Chamber 'fake parliament' and who does not want her as President because of her origin. And then you stand up for Geert W. of the PVV, Mrs. Arib? Again, I thought you were going to remain independent. And then you say that DENK would have no respect for the Chamber. I can say the following: that is bullshit. We have the greatest possible respect for our parliamentary democracy, we stand before our Chamber and our Constitution, but unfortunately we cannot respect what you have done over the past year. But again it was not just these words. On March 1, 2017, we read: "Arib: DENK baffles and demonizes unprecedented." It's like a hotshot to DENK. See also: "Room chairman Arib: methods DENK affect respect for Lower House'. And then on election day: "Kusu should have distanced himself from Erdogan's statements." Mrs Arib, for the third time, you would remain independent, wouldn't you? Why did you prove over and over again in the past year that you cannot separate your emotions and your political preference from the presidency when it comes to DENK? You know damn well it doesn't suit a President of the Chamber to be political.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u51	Now that we have a political debate, I have another question for Mr Tunahan. I mean Mr Kuzu. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u52	It's always hard, those names.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u53	What do you think of Mr Erdogan's statement that the Netherlands would be a Nazi country? You bring it up yourself, so I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u54	I have already indicated that the Netherlands is not a Nazi and not a fascist country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u55	Do you also consciously renounce the statements made by the Turkish Prime Minister, whom you admire so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u56	Well, "who so admires you" I think my words have been clear. For you, I'd like to repeat it again. I have done it many times in recent times, but again for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think it is important that we judge people here by what they are doing and that we have a proper debate here in the Netherlands. I would ask you to do so in the same way, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u58	Could a President of the Chamber in future have the decency to no longer qualify Members of Parliament as 'worthy' or 'unworthy' and not use the office of President of the Chamber for a political campaign? That happened on election day, for God's sake. That doesn't fit. My second question is about reliability. During an earlier election as President, you did everything you could to get votes, including the votes of the small parties. I still have the texts. You therefore wrote in your application letter: "I will always make sure that minority views are also heard." But a few months later, you had already forgotten those words and came up with a big hammer to break the rights of small groups. Members of parliament who split up will only receive half a staff member and a small cut in speaking time. Democracy was the loser and the leaders of the large groups were the winners. They can now strengthen their grip on MPs. Why did you do this? Why did you swallow your words after a few months? Isn't this a classic example of electoral deception? In any case, we at DENK have great difficulty in trusting you. What are your words worth? In your letter, you also indicated that you always want to give Members of Parliament the room to make their contribution, but you are structuralally cutting off Mr Öztürk. I would even say that in the past year you have always used a double standard. I'm willing to prove it. We made movies about that. We can put it next to each other and then you can judge for yourself whether you think you treat all Members of Parliament fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u59	We've seen these videos from DENK. As far as I'm concerned, they can't be repeated. So we don't have to play them here, but it seems that DENK, following the example of the PVV, also says: we are very displeased; everyone is against us; we are always blamed for everything and we are not treated fairly. That is very similar to the approach of the PVV; I notice that. If the President once speaks to one of the 150 Members about the functioning of the debate and the way in which he carries out his work, that is the job of a President. Why, according to DENK, is it by definition that comments on DENK are politically motivated? What's that based on? It can also be about your own functioning. You are very much concerned with your own functioning; look at that critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u60	Firstly, I have indicated that we are doing all kinds of things without saying it. I have made it quite clear here why I have come to these judgments. I have made it clear that I even have videos in which we see, for example, that a D66 Member of Parliament is given a minute's speaking time during an arrangement of work to make a point and that the President, Mr DENK, has already cut off after two sentences. That doesn't happen once; I'd say, "Good." That does not happen twice; I would also say: fine. It's structural. I'm having trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think Mr DENK has examples in which he has been treated badly. There are many examples in which other groups sometimes think that. Let me reassure Mr Kuzu that I too have sometimes felt that my ability to speak was not fully reflected in the way in which the President cut me off. So that has happened to me too. So let's not pretend that it only happens to DENK. It happens to every Member of Parliament. That's exactly why we have a chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's exactly my point. Mr Verhoeven of D66 pointed out that it sometimes happens to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u63	It happens to everyone!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u64	It always happens to me and to Öztürk it always happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u65	A small point of order: Mr Verhoeven 'copied' my group in this interruption. That's not right. We feel treated equally by Mrs Arib. I said in my speech that I do not have to compliment you on that, because I think that is normal. But we do feel treated equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's totally correct. So I must now address Mr Verhoeven with exhortation. That's the second time. Mrs. Agema has a point. Does Mr Verhoeven accept that? Yeah, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr President, I am always being exhorted by the President of the Chamber. Always! That always happens to me! And that's unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u68	I'll take note of that. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u69	Very good. Then we will also see how the Chamber deals with the concerns of my group and how the support has now been organised. I believe that Mrs Arib can also consider the way in which this is taking place in her contribution. I come to my last point, the inconsistency. Mrs. Arib, you have Wilders raging, screaming, screaming and screaming while you deliberately interrupt me and my party, keeping it short and putting it in an evil light. The man who called Parliament "a fake parliament" could even count on your support and compliments; not on your support, but on your compliments. We have sent numerous letters to Mrs Arib about her functioning and her expressions. We often did not receive any response to these letters; they were adopted for notification. Her attitude towards us has remained unchanged in the past period, but I would like to conclude positively. This is a new period, a new round with new opportunities. I would ask Mrs Arib to respond to our questions and to reflect on a number of statements she has made in the past. I hope this will be a good reflection. This is a new period, a new round with new opportunities. I'm doing Mrs. Arib's handshake, and I'm doing it in public. I ask her to treat us, the new group DENK, equally in the future. I thank her kindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. It's special to be back here again. The Chamber held a debate yesterday on the outcome of the election and the work of the scout. That was a big day. Today is another important day, because the Chamber elects its new President. This happened in January 2016. I took part in that debate on behalf of the Animal Party, as green as grass. There were four candidates; Khadija Arib was one of them. Last year, no less than four rounds of votes were needed to create a new President of the Chamber. That could be a lot faster today. Despite the great loss of the Labour Party in the last elections, the current President decided to re-enlist for the Presidency. She is the only candidate and this election is a lot less exciting than it was a year ago. I would stress that this is the credit of the current President. The fact that no one opposed is significant. Mrs Arib has done so well in the year she was President of the Chamber that no one wants to lose her. That is not surprising; Khadija Arib is very committed to parliamentary democracy. I would like to refer to a point made by Mrs Agema. Mrs Arib may have a double passport, but she certainly does not have a double agenda, and that is what this is about, which is relevant. Several questions have already been asked about the provision of information to the Chamber and security; I will not repeat them. The President is usually elected from one of the major parties. That's different now. My group considers it brave and tough of the Labour Party to want to sacrifice one of its nine seats to deliver the President of our Parliament. Today's vote is written and secret; that is no different than in other elections. However, I can say that at least today there is a candidate on whom the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Wassenberg. It's good to have you back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief: 50PLUS is extremely satisfied with the functioning of Mrs Arib, 'our' president. It has recently shown that it is also aware of the interests of the smaller groups. We very much appreciate her commitment to strengthening the information position of the Chamber. In her letter, Mrs Arib made two additional points: the renovation of the Binnenhof and a well-functioning administrative organisation. In the opinion of 50PLUS, these are excellent points of interest. Mrs Arib, together with the Bureau, would like to carry this forward. How will she shape the new Bureau? How does it see the role of the smaller groups? Is there any possibility of renewal and improvement there? We thank the Labour Party and Mrs Arib for this candidacy. We look forward to continuing the good cooperation and we look forward with unusually great tension to the outcome of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u73	I would like to thank all Members for their contributions. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.40 a.m. after which Mrs Arib will answer the questions she has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Chamber for the opportunity to explain my candidacy here. Mrs. Agema mentioned a union coach. It is often referred to as the Presidency of the Chamber. That is true, but there is a difference: the Chamber Presidency is the only position in which the interview is held in public. That doesn't happen with the job of union coach. I also get the Twitter that this is broadcast live via NPO Politics. So the whole of the Netherlands is watching, but good. It is a pity that there are no fellow candidates, because we would have been able to share the suffering with each other. I therefore regret that Mr Bosma has not applied. Having said that, I would like to dwell on my candidacy more than a year ago, but not too long. I ran as one of the four candidates. At that time, I had the impression that this function is a heavy and responsible function. I did not know, however, that I would find it very interesting and special to be President of the Chamber, and that is why I have again applied. At that time, I had intended to uphold the standing of the Chamber, to conduct the debates properly and, of course, to present the Chamber properly to the outside world. These three points have also been raised by a number of colleagues. I think a major part of it has succeeded in doing so. It is difficult to do everything well and 100% in one year. Of course, we are far from there and there are a lot of other things that I will pay attention to in the coming period. As chairman, I sometimes have a great deal of trouble with lengthy introductions. I will therefore continue to answer the questions raised by a number of spokesmen. I note that in all the contributions, for which I thank you very much, the official organisation has been mentioned as one of the most important subjects. Mrs Voortman, Mrs Keijzer, Mr Voordewind, Mr Harbers, Mrs Kuik and others have asked questions about this, and rightly so. I agree with the compliments that are being made and are made to the people who support us 24 hours a day almost 7 days a week. I would like to mention, for example, the cleaners, the security staff and the staff of the restaurant company who work here for many years. They're loyal and they're always there for us. I am very grateful to them for that. I think it is a widely shared feeling that we cannot do our job properly without these people. At the same time, we see that the official organisation must undergo the necessary changes. That is also the critical tone in colleagues' contributions. Much has changed in society and the administrative organisation must be able to anticipate what is happening in society. For example, the social media play a very important role and members of parliament get information very quickly. This includes an official organisation that responds to this in an appropriate way. It is important that we have a modern, stable and efficient organisation that should be able to serve all the Presidents of the Chamber and all the Members of Parliament. In the Chamber, I noticed that, although not everyone has, recent times have created a kind of culture in which politicians come and go and the official organisation remains. Such a culture must change. It shouldn't matter. Politicians are always temporary, but the official organisation should be strong and should serve all Members of Parliament, of whatever political colour. Reference has been made to the ABD report. It's been around for a while. We've talked about it a lot as a Presidium. We've taken some steps. I share the sense of urgency that lives with many MPs. It is not easy to make changes in an official organisation. The practice appears to be more unruly than on paper. I also see that there are differences in the organization. At one shift we need a lot of people, but they work with a few people, and at another shift there is overhumanization. We discussed this at the Bureau. What are the priorities? How can we make a choice? To give just one example to make it more concrete: there is a great deal of recourse to the Legislative Office. We had six law lawyers. This is not at all comparable to the way in which departments are supported with lawyers. Office for Legislation works for all individual Members of Parliament. So it doesn't matter who it is, it's always there. That is where additional capacity needs to go. However, there are also services where there are a lot of people. That's what we're doing. A number of reorganisations are currently under way. The reorganisations of the Communication Service and the Automation Service are almost complete. They took a long time, but now they're being shut down. Concrete agreements have been reached with the government on cooperation in the field of ICT. The BOR (Research and Public Expenditure Office) and the Information Service are also being reorganised. We have two separate services. As a Presidium, we have said that they must be merged. That means you have to look again at quality. Are people in the right place? That's what's happening now. This is done in good consultation with the works council. The services of Financial and Economic Affairs and Personnel will be next this year, as will the Security Service. Almost half of it is being reorganised. I repeat, we're not here yet. Nor do I always think that it is fast enough, but half of them are in the process of reorganisation or modernisation. Mr Harbers asked about the new structure of the management team. It was chosen two or three years ago. The management team consists of three managers. We have the Warrior, we have a director of constitutional affairs, and we have a director of operations. After one year of working with them, I think it is good to see whether this structure meets the expectations we had two or three years ago. This is done in good consultation with the Bureau and the MT. This is the case with the official organisation. A question has been asked about the renovation; and rightly so. It's a huge operation. As a chamber, we are very closely involved. We have set up a Construction Guidance Committee. The renovation concerns all buildings at the Binnenhof, but for the Lower House we have a separate advisory committee. In addition to Mrs Keijzer's comment on this point, I would like to point out that it must be good housing for Members of Parliament and staff. Since it is important for Members of Parliament to be closely involved, we discussed at the Bureau that someone on behalf of the Bureau should preferably chair the construction supervision committee. The move will take place in 2020. The fact that this complex has to be closed for about five years is painful to me. However, I understand that this has been decided on because of the costs. We also try to keep everything as transparent and open as possible in the Foreign Office building, so that people can visit it. This house has almost 280,000 visitors a year. Once we have moved, we must not allow this to happen again. We are therefore going to do everything in our power to ensure that the number of visitors we have here becomes possible there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u75	The President-in-Office is going through it now, as the President of the Chamber would like to see, and that is fast, but I still have a question about this renovation. A decision has been taken and decisions reversed is not what I would like to ask Mrs Arib. In my text I talked about keeping costs manageable and not adding all kinds of new wishes at the last minute. I also mentioned the tendering procedure. I do not know who is formal about it, but if the Bureau and the President are involved, I think it is right that this call for tenders does not lead to one mega package, one party that is going to do all of this, where smaller companies have to look into it and there is high costs because we are building dependence. I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u76	I know exactly what you are referring to, because I know that the D66 Group has problems with that. It was also discussed extensively in the Bureau. In response to the comments and written questions that were raised at the time and which were not fully answered, I had discussions about this, including with the then Minister for Housing and National Service, Mr Blok. It remains a point of attention. I cannot say much about it now, but I know that this is a matter of concern to your group. In addition, Mr Verhoeven drew attention to security in his contribution and raised the question of whether there is a protocol for attacks. The latter is certainly the case. He referred to an incident at the Square. During that incident, there were signals from the people who were here in the building. It is then very important to examine how this communication went. That is something that the protocol now devotes special attention to. There was provision for how to communicate in such an incident, but those small comments that people have then passed have been taken seriously and are now part of the protocol. Mr Verhoeven further asked about the virus attack. I hope he understands that I cannot say everything about that, because that would not be convenient for security reasons. It is important, however, that the organisation and staff of the Lower House are alert to cyber risks. Mr Verhoeven has rightly pointed this out and I think he has asked written questions about this earlier. This has also been discussed extensively in the Bureau and the necessary measures are being taken in this regard. I will answer the specific questions. I see that he is still in the same place, Mr Bishop, and I have asked whether I want to reflect on Anne Vondeling's statement, about being a schoolmaster. I sometimes feel like I'm some kind of teacher. That's confirmed to me by my grandchild. She saw a picture of me with all the group chairmen around me. I said, this is my job. She said, "Oh, so you're the teacher?" It feels that way sometimes. You're trying to find a balance. On the one hand, you're kind of a teacher; on the other hand, you know how stubborn people's representatives sometimes are. They have their own opinion and do not hide it. I'm gonna have to deal with that, too. So far this works fine, as far as I'm concerned; otherwise I'll hear it. Mr Harbers and someone else spoke about the representation of the Chamber outside. That is indeed a very important task. When I became President of the Chamber more than a year ago, I was confronted with the EU Presidency, where not only at government level, but also at parliamentary level, all kinds of conferences were held. With European Parliaments, we had about six conferences, in which a number of colleagues had a very active role, such as Mrs Van Veldhoven in the field of energy. Others have also played an active role. I then tried to fulfil my role as the face of the Chamber. I have made speeches in English, and I will continue to do so. Before that I went to the nuns; that was fine. My English is way better than it was over a year ago, so that's okay. It's a little better than Van Gaal's, I think, but it can always be better; I'll just admit that. My French is much better, but well, I know not everyone speaks French. In one year I think Mr Harbers is referring to this. I have had to make a lot of choices. I have spoken to ambassadors and I have met Mr Ten Broeke many times in various delegations. I promise you, Mr Harbers, that I will take on the external representation of the Chamber a little more often. It was hard to do everything right in one year. I also had to preside over a lot of debates. That's really my primary task. Especially in the last year I noticed that the image of the Netherlands outwards is so negative. We have our own problems. The image that is often depicted from the Netherlands is that of racism and exclusion. We do indeed have concrete problems, but it is not the case that you do not have a chance or opportunity in the Netherlands. There may be people who do not want to see that, but I have experienced that there are opportunities and opportunities: as an individual I have had the opportunity and I have taken it. I think I've got a part in carrying that out, too. I've really held off all kinds of foreign requests for interviews, for example from the BBC and Le Monde. There are all kinds of newspapers that find it very interesting how it is possible that someone with a background like mine in the Netherlands might have something to do with that image........................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm proud of that, and I'll put it out more often. I promise you that, Mr Harbers. Mr Harbers also asked a question about the presence of MPs on the reception of delegations and so on. That is a matter of concern to a number of committees; I know that. We've given that a lot of thought at the Bureau. We had a discussion on the role of committee chairmen. It is extremely important to talk about this in the new Chamber. The chairman of the committee is not only the chairman of general discussions occasionally. If we as a committee organise a working visit, it is not only a question of working visits abroad but also of working visits here. People are so enthusiastic. They make all the preparations to receive us, but then two or three colleagues show up. That is what we are going to discuss separately with the new committee chairmen. They will also receive the necessary support. I hope that it will have a different look to the outside world than has been the case so far. This is not the case in all committees; let me put it first. Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuzu asked a question about the rise of minorities in the Chamber from two different angles. Last time I mentioned it specifically in my letter. This time I did not mention it, because I take it for granted. In a democracy, it is also important to give space to small groups and minorities. Sometimes you have to stick up for them, so they don't get snowed down in the big picture. I'll keep doing that. This also applies specifically to the information position of the Chamber. I did think about that in my letter. When I look back at how things have been over the past year, I see that it is a point of attention. We all know how things are with the scheme. It is also often a question of sending information to the Chamber on time. If there's information coming to the Chamber, it shouldn't be three quarters. Too much information is sometimes sent or there are documents coming to the Chamber at the last moment, one day before the debate. I've made a strong effort to counter that. I have had talks with the Minister of the Interior about this. I've also officially written him in a letter saying it has to be different. Article 68 of the Constitution is not just about giving passive information when the Chamber asks for it. The Chamber must also be actively informed from the cabinet. I understand very well that there are situations where it is not always possible to share everything with the Chamber, but I do sometimes feel that too soon the stamp 'trustworthy' is being printed on something, whereas Members of Parliament are not able to do much with it in a debate. This led to an updated note. When I started reading that note, I noticed that she was actually from 2002 but that she had been dusted off a bit and then sent to the Chamber. So I wasn't satisfied with that either. I think it would be very good if the new Chamber and the new cabinet would consult each other about this. Maybe that's possible from the Home Affairs Committee. This is a question of what the obligation to provide information means, so that there is a kind of consensus about it. Not everything has to go public. Sometimes documents are also requested about the exchange of mail between officials and directors. That's absolutely impossible. When matters are about safety and that sort of thing, we have to be careful about that, too. But it would be a good thing if the new Chamber and the new Cabinet were to try to reach agreement on this, so that there would soon be a level playing field. Mr Van Raak asked a question about Question Time. That point was also included in the estimate by Mr Van Nispen. I also agree with Mr Van Raak that we are a strong parliament. Also in the context of visits to other parliaments, I think: we are really a very powerful parliament. It has to stay that way. I agree with Mr Van Raak that sometimes Question Time is boring. I understand there are ideas about that at the SP. I said it would be good to consider this as a new Chamber. I also promised Mr Van Nispen that. We will not abolish Question Time. But we might be able to look for a new form with more vividness. Then all ideas are welcome. We may then be able to give them form and content in the new composition, regardless of which group they come from. In this way, everyone remains involved in what we do here in the Chamber. In addition to this, but that is something that I myself think we should consider more often, I would point out the debates with the cabinet. It is then about achieving results, submitting a motion or asking when a letter will come to the Chamber. However, as a Chamber, we have hardly any debate among ourselves. There are, however, issues that it is good that the Chamber should once debate them. For those who want to hear an example: there will be a State Commission. The First Chamber has talked about this extensively. I think it is very good that the House of Representatives, in its new composition, is debating this as well. In any case, the State Commission will know where the various political groups stand. That could also be a possibility. Mrs Kuik asked how we could involve people more in politics, in the sense of a bridge between citizens and politics. Moreover, the vast majority of the Dutch population is satisfied with our parliamentary democracy. They also love that they can vote freely, pick up politicians and so on. This does not mean that we should not look for other forms where citizens will appreciate our work more and be closely involved. I have just given the example of the number of visitors we have every year when it comes to the Chamber as an institution. We also have an app, Debate Direct, where people can see directly who is talking and what debate is taking place. Fortunately, we also have a new website. It's much more accessible than before. If we're gonna move out later, we're gonna have to go through that process. Mrs Agema asked a question about the motions tabled by the PVV in recent years but not supported by the PvdA. I am not going to have that discussion again, because it has been mentioned a number of times. I can only say that a new group has now been elected. I do not know how this discussion will take place in the new group. It is up to that new group to see how it will deal with the PVV's motions in the future. I would like to leave that to the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u77	If Mrs Arib is elected, she will remain formally part of the PvdA Group. I was actually hoping for a more accommodating answer. I also hope that she will do her best for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u78	I have said in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that what if the PVV tabled a motion on refugees that we agree with? How do we deal with that? I remember Mrs Agema's motion on care for the elderly. It has also led to discussion. But it's always about the content. The question is whether we should deal with this in a different way than before or whether we should simply vote against all the motions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u79	There were many motions from the PVV that the PvdA supported. They were voted against on a regular basis, but then they were just stolen. Even Marith Volp, former MP, had to threaten to separate when she wanted to vote in favour of the motion on care for the elderly, on the occasion of the Borst manifesto. Mrs Keijzer was still talking about that. Mrs Arib remains part of her group. Is she going to make a more active commitment to the PVV to get that category PvdA policy to be lifted by default against all our motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u80	I said what I had to say, Mrs Agema. The new group should be given the opportunity to review how it deals with different motions. I don't think that's gonna last very long, and then you'll hear. Mr Kuzu had many comments and many questions. Let me say one thing, Mr Kuzu. I will always stand up for the Chamber and for the standing of the Chamber. That's what I said then, and I'm saying it again. If I say that I have more respect for one Member of Parliament than for another, it has nothing to do with politics, but with the question of whether a Member of Parliament respects the rules we have agreed on. I will remain very vigilant about that in the future. You've come up with all sorts of quotes. All those things I said in this room. In an interview, I said, "Whoever comes to the Chamber will come to me." That's what I said. I still believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr President, respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u82	Wait a minute, Mr. Kuzu. One of the rules is that I give you the floor. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u83	I also believe that one of the rules is spoken through the President. That didn't just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u84	I will be very consistent in ensuring that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u85	Very good. Respect for the standing of the Chamber? Let me remind you of the word 'fake parliament'. That's not a word I used. Where was Mrs. Arib then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u86	For the record, I was not President at the time. That's point one. When someone called the Schouten Committee a 'cohesion committee', I immediately corrected it. That someone was Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u87	Because the outcome was known in advance. Secondly, I have never heard Mrs Arib make a comment about the 'fake parliament' qualification. The question I am asking here is: does this have nothing to do with the prestige of the Chamber? Is it not a bit crooked to say that the rules of the Chamber are being complied with? You yourself say that it is about the prestige of the Chamber. How do you qualify the word 'fake parliament' when it comes to the prestige of the Chamber? I ask Mrs Arib through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u88	Before I became President more than a year ago, I gave my opinion on that word 'fake parliament'. We are elected representatives of the people and not fake representatives of the people. I said that at the time, but Mr Kuzu probably missed that. That is what I said at the time, but I also said that, as President, I do not always manage to react ad-rem. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. I'm not gonna make a difference between MPs. I'm not gonna treat people who think they're being locked out any other way. Respect, that's how I've always learned, you have to earn and enforce, even in this house. It's mutual. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that. That may be a bit abruptly ending my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u89	I was surprised, but did you end your speech and answer the questions you were asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u90	There was another question from Mr Krol about the appointment of Vice-Presidents. That is a process that actually takes place before the new Bureau is appointed. I understand that this is happening between the official secretaries, under the supervision of the political secretary of the largest party. I believe that this is being negotiated, and in the end we are told who is going to sit in the Bureau on who's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u91	In my first term, I spoke about the representation of the Chamber by the President, national and international. I also spoke about chairing the meeting. I also asked the candidate if she could tell us, through the STAR system, how she operated in that other position, which we do not see but which is at least as important, namely the management of the Chamber Organisation. I could have missed it if it had been at the very beginning, but I haven't heard her about it. I would very much like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u92	I said something about the administration. I can talk about this for a long time, but what matters is that I think it is extremely important that employees are motivated and inspired and are happy to go to work. My experience so far is that this is excellent for most people who are especially visible, such as the messengers, the cleaning and so on. That's where it goes well, and my role in it is to keep motivating people. It is a point of attention that there has been little support for official support from P&O in recent years, but many projects have been agreed for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u93	I understand. My question was: tell you of a situation in which you, as head of the administration, had to take a certain action and tell you what the result was. I always have such a problem with general terms as "I have to inspire" and "I have to motivate." I am always very curious about a situation that has occurred over the past year, what the President has done in it and what was the result of it. We in the Chamber will then get a little more sense of the internal task which a President of the House of Representatives has, a task which is almost all of us unaware of. However, this task is extremely important, because the well-being of the people working in the Chamber is of the utmost importance to us as a Chamber. That is a factor in how we can do our job here. I'd like to hear her comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u94	I can mention situations, but I find it difficult to mention names or departments when it comes to staff. I don't want to. What I can say is that it is also very dependent on the type of leadership. Let me keep it to myself: I am someone who communicates directly with employees. I don't like all kinds of interlayers. Where I see that there are too many interlayers, I also raise that issue. That's one. The second is, and this has to do with the fact that I have been a Member of Parliament for so long and still am, by the way, that I also know where the priorities lie in terms of support. I have just mentioned the example of a positive example in this case; there are also examples that are less positive, but I do not want to mention them here from the Bureau of Legislation. That was just a shortage of people. I know how important it is for MPs to be supported by that. That is why I said: it would be good if we free up additional capacity for that. That is a very specific situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u95	So that's what I'm looking for. How did you do that? How's that going in practice? I understand very well that you don't want to mention people's names or departments here. I do not want you to do that either, because I am extremely sparing on the people who work here, but I am looking at how you do it in practice. How, then, does Mrs Arib do that in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u96	I can be very brief about that. I always talk to everyone in the building, and then you hear a lot. I'll keep doing that. I am immediately informed by the people who are simply active in the workplace. I'm picking up a lot of signals, and with those signals, I always do something. That's the way I operate here as chairman. I'll go straight to the people and see how you're doing. Where's it going well? Where's it going less well? I also hear a lot from MPs. They also know a lot and draw my attention to the fact that it may be possible to do a little better here or there. I'll do something with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u97	I have one last question about safety. I'm glad the protocol's been updated. I hope that it can also be spread in a certain way so that it is clear. On the digital side, the president, Mrs Arib, proposed on 12 January to set up a team of experts on social media use. There were some MPs who used old passwords and were hacked into them. Perhaps it is an idea to do something wider in the area of cyber security awareness, whether or not in consultation with the Bureau. We've already thought about such a team of experts. I did get a call from the Automation Service once. My final question would be to do that again for a broader awareness in the field of cyber security, because these things are becoming more common.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u98	Well, it is a proposal and I think it is a very good proposal to discuss it in the Bureau and to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u99	I hope to hear from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'm sure you'll hear that from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. 141 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u102	122 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u103	One vote was cast on the member Van Veldhoven. One vote was cast on the member Bishop. 9 votes were cast for Mr Bosma. 111 votes were cast for Mr Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u104	I've prepared a "long" speech. I want to thank you all so much for the trust you have placed in me again. I feel it as a great honor. I know that a small group does not always deliver the President of the Chamber. In this case, I would like to thank the PvdA Group and, in particular, Lodewijk Asscher for the support and space I have been given to be your President of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u105	You know what you voted for. That's clear. You know me and I know most of you. I look forward to having nice, substantive and exciting debates with you. I will continue to represent this beautiful institution on behalf of all of us. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Knops very much for the excellent way in which he led this debate. Thank you.
