ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Year by year, the Minister makes agreements with municipalities on the maximum increase of the IZB for owners and companies. In recent years, I have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the fact that municipalities exceed the macro norm that the minister agrees with them, year by year. Earlier, the Minister said that there is little I can do about it. There's something new coming up now. We now see that municipalities are shifting taxes to small and medium-sized enterprises. The IZB for companies is greatly increased. Research carried out by the Forum paper shows that next year the macro standard of 1.97% is well exceeded and that there is an increase of almost 3.5% to 4%. Is that normal? In my opinion, it is not normal for municipalities to have exceeded the standard year after year. I do not think it is normal for there to be a shift towards companies, towards SMEs. It is precisely SMEs that have to create jobs. It is precisely SMEs that have to create jobs. Does the Minister think it is normal for municipalities to shift their taxes more and more and more and to take an ever-increasing grip on the corporate treasury? Is he willing to do anything about this? Is he willing to do something about that macro norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it has happened before that in the spring we talk about the macro standard for real estate tax. As more often than not, we must be careful with conclusions and first we must have the final figures. In this case, I should like specifically to point out that two months ago, on the basis of a poll by the Association of Own Houses under 100 municipalities, I was able to inform the Chamber that the increase would remain well within the norm. This is, I understand, a poll of VNO-NCW among twenty municipalities. It seems to indicate that there is an overrun. I think we should wait until we get the final figures from the Centre for the Research of the Economy of the Lower Governments, the COELO, in March. In the follow-up to the question was the thought that there would be a shift from the ozb for residents to those for companies. It will have to be seen whether that is the case. I do know that COELO said not so long ago in Het Financieele Dagblad that there is no trend where there would be a local shift from one group to another. If there would be a movement, again, I have no reason to think that there is. It is up to local democracy to decide on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister gave the response "I'm still waiting for further figures" before, but then we saw that the macro norm was exceeded in the years 2012 to 2015. I understand that the Minister says that it is ultimately local democracy that makes the choice. But you will only be a shopkeeper, for example in the municipality of Breda, where the choice is made explicitly to reduce the ozb for owners and increase it for companies. You'll only be a shopkeeper in Breda and live in Oosterhout yourself. You can't vote in the Breda municipality because you can't vote in the municipal elections next year. As a shopkeeper, you certainly have a problem, especially with a municipality that explicitly calls for it to shift the burden to business, to that shopkeeper. You'll just be that shopkeeper who's just at the tipping point to be able to hire someone or not, then you'll be confronted with higher burdens. I think we all want jobs to grow. This growth must come from small and medium-sized enterprises. It is precisely then that that it is necessary to do something about it. I expect this minister to do something about it. I see that the macronorm year by year, most of this cabinet period, is not achieved by municipalities and that they go well beyond that. That is why you have to ask yourself whether the macronorm is still manageable in a good way. Is it not time to put things in order and perhaps go to a micronorm? Make individual agreements with municipalities that if we set the standard, each municipality must comply with it, so that small and medium-sized enterprises are also faced with a normal increase. For example, this increase can be related to inflation, and not higher, so that one can actually carry out what one can and will without being confronted with not being able to assert his voice in the municipality where the ozb is raised because oneself lives in another municipality. Is the Minister prepared to take steps at last and to address the municipalities that are well over the macro norm not only, but also to change the system so that they comply with the norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Alderman Finance of the municipality of Breda, who was mentioned as an example, apparently said in the media: we have determined for the entire coalition period how much we raise rates; we saw that compared to other municipalities the houses were a little high and the companies were a little low in rates. For the record, this alderman is not from the circles from which I come, but from D66. But in any case, it is the coalition's freedom there to decide to do so. As far as the system is concerned, Mr Wiebes, together with the VNG and with me, has worked out the intention of revising the municipal tax system. Moreover, this would give more room for municipalities to make their own choices. If you do that, you can indeed get rid of the macro norm, which I have often said is not ideal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	I find it a little easy to refer to any steps in the local tax area. The Minister knows as well as I do that, if we are already able to agree on this, this is something of a long-term term. We have really not arranged this in a number of years, and it is also a question of what the outcome is. I note that in the meantime the entrepreneur who, for example, is active in Breda, but does not live there, is facing a more than average increase in the ICI tariff. In a direct sense, that entrepreneur can't do anything about it because he can't contact and pay the aldermen in Breda because he can't vote in that municipality. I think that is very regrettable, so I am particularly sorry that this Minister does not want to take all the steps to change the system now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have also spoken on a regular basis on the initiative of the VVD, first with Mrs Jorritsma, then President of the VNG, and then with Mr Van Zanen, current President of the VNG. The conclusion has always been that we do not just have a better alternative to the macro norm at the moment, which was also worn in the Chamber. However, I fully agree that this standard provides incentives for the municipalities to add up the revenues rather than the tariffs. That's not an ideal instrument. I would point out, however, that it is precisely the VVD that has in recent times called for as many tasks and responsibilities as possible to be decentralised to the municipalities. Then the choices are made there. And there are sometimes choices made that the group of the VVD in the Lower House might have made differently, but well, it is up to the citizens of those municipalities.
