ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the financing of mosques. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, as the first speaker, give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The alFirah mosque in Utrecht had to be evacuated today and our hope was that this mosque would serve as an example for all other mosques in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, things didn't work out that way. Despite a tsunami of hate and violence preachers, parents who took their children away from them, shady financing structures and the huge magnifying glass that this mosque rightly lies under, the mosque remains open, thanks to a secret financier from the Netherlands, anyway. We ask both ministers: who is this financier or who are these financiers? From which other, especially Western countries, is there more funding for mosques in the Netherlands? What mosques are we talking about here? Does the Minister of SZW have any idea in this case of the money flows from Islamic countries, also known as OIC countries? And what do these money flows look like? Can he tell us more about this or perhaps otherwise inform the Chamber about it? In addition: how did the rescue of the alFirah take place? And does the government stand by and look at it? 'Cause it's just happening right in front of you. In the case of this alFirah mosque, the reason lies in the perfectly normal lie-like behaviour of funding according to Islamic standards. To protect Islam may be lied to. I can assume that the whole Chamber is now aware of all this kind of taqqiya and kitman practice, and anyone who is not aware of it should start looking into it. This only concerns donations from countries like Kuwait, according to the newspaper. What was in the mysterious, no: secret piece was not mysterious, but secret..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But there is also funding of mosques from countries such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. I have already asked some questions about this, but this is in support of it. Moreover, it is also possible that the origin of funding is concealed by channeling the money through organizations or embassies in the West to the Netherlands or to other countries. That this is a standing practice, it appeared when it came out that Qatar financed the mosque of a Muslim brotherhood in Copenhagen through their embassy in The Hague. So there's a lot going on. It is also not unthinkable that Dutch individuals should be used, for example as a catcatcher. What role, for example, is played by shady offices that allow money to be transferred invisible to other countries, because they are smaller amounts? What role do they play and is there any vision or grip on that? Because a lot of small amounts together are of course still a very large amount, we have also seen that in Gouda. Does the Minister have a visual on that? The example of the Copenhagen mosque means that all Islamic funding can actually be regarded as suspicious, even in the case of charitable organisations. After all, Islamic ideology and practice teach us that Islam can only be distrustful. Mr President, I come to the end of my speech and perhaps I will pass on my speaking time for ten seconds if I do not relieve you. Everywhere Islam enters, problems arise, and the problem is not called Salafism, it is not called Islamism, it is not called radicalisation or fundamentalism. These terms are merely a shambles which allows politicians to pretend to do something about the problem of Islamization. Islam itself is the problem and therefore all mosques must close. And my final remark, Mr President, in his last debate the Minister indicated that he would leave all the motions of judgement Chamber. That would be the Minister of SZW, in the last debate we had here. We know each other's views, including the embrace of the Minister of Islam. Unfortunately, that will never change, and that is why I will ask the Chamber once again in the second term to close all mosques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u3	The story, or rather the plurality of the PVV is known. I would like to confront Mr De Graaf with the following. He finds it extremely problematic when funding comes from part of the world to the mosques in the Netherlands. He also admits honestly himself: all mosques must be closed. I believe that this is not so legal, but we also have a political party here in Parliament, which is also financed from abroad. Could I ask Mr De Graaf why his party is subsidised and financed by Islamophobia and xenophobic clubs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u4	We are very transparent about that. We follow the law. Mr Kuzu can see exactly that. I don't really understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u5	Perhaps that has something to do with Mr De Graaf's ability to interpret, but that's what he's about. Those are his own qualities and competences. The question is actually very clear. When it comes to foreign mosques financing, according to the PVV, this is extremely problematic because influence would be bought so that all kinds of things can happen. I will deal with this in my own term. How does he feel about his own party being subsidised by xenophobic, Islamophobic, Muslim-hating clubs from abroad, buying influence within his own party? Should he not make such a fundamental point of view or remain hypocritical?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u6	That was a lot. Thank you, by the way, for complimenting me on my skills. They're not lying about it. Through the President, I say to Mr Kuzu: thank you for recognising this. When it comes to funding by other parties and so on, I would like to point out that the PVV has no ideology aimed at world domination and the subjection of all people who do not believe in the PVV on this earth. This is in contrast to the ideology which Mr Kuzu adheres to as a subject of Islam. The fact that he is also putting Sharia above our Constitution is a much bigger problem. We adhere to the law as it is in the Netherlands. We cannot say that of many Islamic organisations and that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u8	I don't think it's customary, but this is, of course, entrapment. What a messed-up human image you must have, what a messed-up social image you must have to make someone who is in parliament who has sworn allegiance to the Constitution for all those things that Mr De Graaf is coming up with right now. You can shift the problem to me as a person and to Islam as an ideology. It's the familiar little straw he's always drowning in the Chamber. Mr. De Graaf, first take a look at yourself. Look at how your party is funded. In my view, then, you would come to a very different conclusion from what is being expressed here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u9	First a compliment on my competences and then projecting his own shortcomings on my person. I do not know what to do with Mr Kuzu in this way. Part of the Christian foundation of our society is: if you do not want to happen to you, another does not. What Mr Kuzu blames me for, he does exactly himself. I'd say get to work, assimilate with that trade! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u10	I now turn to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. You'll have your speaking time, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. Eighteen Islamic organizations have received about 10 million euros from Kuwait in recent years; donations used for all kinds of things, such as the construction of a new mosque or for Qur'an. The money is sometimes also used for the spread of Salafism; a fundamentalist movement within Islam, which has little to do with Western values such as freedom, equality and democracy. Our President made a sharp speech recently, the Abel Herzberg lecture. She was right to speak out against the growing influence of salafism in the Netherlands. Half of Amsterdam's mosques are now salafistic. Sharia marriages are closed and young people are brainwashed. These developments, as I say with the President, are very undesirable. Instead of segregation and isolation, we must strive for integration. We also want complete openness on the financing of mosques. The promotion of salafism from abroad to the Netherlands is unacceptable. Much more information is needed. So I ask the government what is next to Kuwait with other wave states such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar. What do we know about these money flows towards the Netherlands? The SP has called for action several times with the VVD. We have tabled motions for an overview of salfistic organisations, to stop the government's cooperation with these organisations and to cut the financial ties of these organisations abroad. Unfortunately, we still do not have a complete overview and there is no question of stopping cooperation. Of how many organisations that have financial links with abroad, have these links actually been cut? The problem is growing, as I said. Last month a study was published showing that, precisely because of their strict course, Salafist organisations have a strong attraction for young people in particular. At least 23 mosques are to a greater or lesser extent salafistic. Does the government share the view that we should reverse this trend? The problem with groups that turn away from Dutch society is too urgent to leave to others. It's time for action. The SP wants the government to carry out its motions as soon as possible. Make that overview of Salafist organizations, stop that collaboration and cut through those financial ties with abroad. I hope for a constructive attitude on the part of the government, and if not, I shall table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Tellegen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr. Chairman. Kuwait bakes mosques with millions, would be the headline above the article that gave rise to this debate. In recent years, no less than eighteen Islamic organisations in the Netherlands have received around EUR 10 million from Kuwait's charities. What's wrong with that, you might wonder. Religious institutions often receive money from abroad. But that is the point: in a number of cases this is not about moderate religious institutions, but about mosques that are known to have their backs on Dutch society, mosques that are followed by our security services and mosques that keep many mayors awake in our country because they offer a stage to hate preachers. These mosques get money from abroad and not just from a few countries, but from countries like Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Those are countries that are not so close to religious freedom, unfree countries that are also channeling money here to buy influence and get a firm finger in the mosque board, often to give salafism firmer ground under their feet. So it's not strange that this whole Chamber has been wanting this problem a) to be identified since Rand's meaningless 2015 report and b) to be resolved by stopping foreign funding flows. With the mapping of funding flows, I have to say here today, we have not made much progress. In fact, the Minister is still saying the same thing as the Rand report at the time: we cannot get a good enough picture. And that's bullshit. This is evident from the information that has now been provided by the Foreign Office. The Kuwaiti authorities have provided the Netherlands with very concrete information on the volume of funding flows and the names of receiving organizations in the Netherlands. My question to the Foreign Minister is therefore whether the Kuwaiti approach can serve as an example for all other non-free countries. Is the Minister prepared to actively ask all the other Gulf States to provide the same information? The mapping of the money flows can also be done by forcing the institutions here in the Netherlands to become more transparent about their finances. Today, on behalf of the VVD, I have asked questions about it with my colleague, Mr Azmani, again shows that a controversial mosque like alFirah can receive EUR 1.7 million without the government being able to enforce transparency. A solution could be to remove the bill on the publication of foundations. How does the Minister feel about that? Why didn't that happen? The VVD is in favour of this, provided that it is a proportionate proposal and it is logically defined. Once you map the problem, the question is what you do about it. And fair is fair: a solution is not easy. We have freedom of religion in our country, which we would like to maintain. But I would remind you of the Segers/Zijlstra motion, which calls for funding not to be granted to institutions from countries that do not themselves have freedom of religion and freedom of expression. The Karabulut/Potters motion has the same meaning. Come up with proposals to curb that funding, because under the guise of charity, millions of foreign subsidies are being channeled to our country for one reason only: influence. What is the Minister's view to be done? In 2016, he already talked about a law to stop foreign financing. What's going on with that? Finally, I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Austria started a ban in 2015. The UK is also currently examining the possibility of a ban. Why should we not be able to do so in the Netherlands and could we not follow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u14	Clear language. The first step is indeed transparency, openness. We have often worked together in this area. That should be the least of it. The second step is indeed to tackle these flows of money. Do I understand from Mrs Tellegen's last sentences that she says, "Yes, that's what my party wants?" Does she say that we must ensure that there is no more funding from undemocratic countries or countries that do not respect the rule of law? Did I hear it so well and is that your point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u16	Could...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u17	But that's what we need to be nuanced about. After all, the knife cuts both ways. On the one hand, you have to decide which countries that would be. We have now made a broad statement in the Chamber that these should be countries that are not so close to religious freedom and with our Western standards and values. On the other hand, it is very important to determine which institutions in the Netherlands are subject to this ban and to this ban. So these must be religious institutions that you can demonstrate are a threat to our rule of law. You have to be able to prove that they are with their backs to our society. I told you, we can shout very loudly that we have to stop it, but you have to know damn well how to dress it. So it's easier said than done. But I am absolutely in favour of saying immediately, where influence is bought here in the Netherlands and where institutions here in the Netherlands are prepared to undermine our rule of law, that we are against it and we are stopping funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u18	We are going to listen with interest to what the government has to say about this. If that is unsatisfactory, then no doubt steps will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u19	The principle of reciprocity is also important. The VVD prides itself on realpolitik. According to the VVD, we should also trade with countries that do not take western values and standards so closely. Why stop financing institutions from abroad, but trade with the same foreign countries? Isn't that a little double size and hypocrite?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u20	No. It can also be very pragmatic from a realpolitik point of view. We've seen that now. We're just having a diplomatic relationship with a country like Kuwait. You can have a lot of criticism of Kuwait. There are also a lot of good business to do with a country like Kuwait. I find it interesting that we now have that intelligible from Kuwait to the Netherlands. That was precisely my question to the Foreign Minister. I would like that example, as Kuwait has done now, to apply to other countries. In your diplomatic relations with a country like Kuwait, you can put this issue high on your agenda. It's called realistic foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u21	I was not talking about diplomatic relations. I was talking about economic relations. I'm talking about trade relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u22	Those two often go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Kuzu has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u24	Yes, but it is interesting that you are going into diplomatic relations, but you are not going into trade relations, when I explicitly ask for them. A second question is of course: would such a relationship also apply to Catholic organisations, to Protestant organisations, to Jewish organisations that are subsidised from abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u25	You have asked me this question many times in previous debates. The answer is, of course, clear: yes. You cannot say: we are very selective in this. These are religious institutions that undermine the rule of law, whether it is a mosque, a synagogue or an institution of any other signature. At the moment when you are dealing with religious institutions in the Netherlands that undermine our rule of law, who stand their backs to Dutch society and teach students to be anti-Dutch, you must put an end to that. If such institutions are financed from other countries, thereby giving them even more ground in the Netherlands, we must limit them. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. Within our democratic rule of law, everyone is free to believe what he or she wants. For D66, this freedom is at the heart of our democratic and diverse society. That is why my group is deeply concerned when it appears that some salafistic organizations in the Netherlands are carrying out messages of intolerance. Freedom must never be used to restrict the freedoms of another. In doing so, some organisations are moving on and across the borders of our democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. My group is therefore concerned about the dubious financing from abroad, especially if it increases the risk of unwanted influence which could lead to behaviour contrary to our rule of law. It is therefore important to make clear which organisations and religious institutions receive subsidies from which countries and to make clear what instruments are being used if we actually cross the borders of our democratic rule of law. I would like a response from the Minister of Social Affairs to that. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, this Chamber has discussed this issue intensively with this cabinet and adopted various motions. After many questions, the piece by piece became a little clearer how the funding of religious institutions from abroad is handled. However, transparency and understanding of foreign funding flows are still lacking. This is also reflected in the reports about the Utrecht alFirah mosque. Mr. Chairman. Is it true that this mosque has provided false information about subsidies from a Kuwaiti organization on the U.S. terrorist list? I'd like a response from the Minister to this message. How can this be compatible with the motion adopted by my colleague Mr Sjoerdsma, who calls on religious institutions to be transparent and public about the origin of their funding? What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Integration writes that he is in consultation with representatives of Muslim communities in the Netherlands. This should lead to a covenant that should promote transparency regarding foreign financing. When can we expect this covenant? Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Foreign Affairs previously informed the Chamber that he was engaged in talks with the Gulf States with a view to reaching urgent agreements on transparency in funding flows. I am very curious about the concrete arrangements. Will both rulers be joining forces in this? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Salafist and wahabist organizations have often been the subject of debate in the Chamber. It remains difficult for me to reconcile that such organisations adhere to and disseminate an anti-democratic and unbearable doctrine in the Netherlands. Thanks to the goodwill of the Kuwaiti Government, we and the government now have a better view of money flows flowing from Kuwait to the Dutch mosques and Islamic organizations. How are the talks with other countries, not only with the Gulf States, but also with a large Islamic country such as Indonesia, for example? Can the Minister indicate whether such statements will also be provided from these countries? On the basis of the Normative framework problematic behavior can be determined whether a mosque is desirable in the Netherlands. Can the Minister give an overview of all the houses of prayer that have been considered undesirable? And once such a house of prayer has been declared undesirable, does the government urge the countries from which the funding comes to block the flow of money? Is such a request always being heard? Are there any countries that have not yet been prepared to cooperate in such requests? And what reason do these countries have for not cooperating? But is our own house also in order? I read in the Minister's letter that the Kuwait list was given to municipalities so that 'the talks with institutions can be entered into'. Isn't that a little skinny? In the Netherlands, for example, we have the Law Bibob, the Act promoting integrity assessments by the public administration. This allows municipalities to refuse permits, subsidies and exemptions if there is a serious risk that these permits or exemptions will be used to commit criminal offences. Perhaps one of the organisations, or parts of them, on the Kuwaiti list, is on the terrorist list of, for example, Europe or the UN. Or perhaps these organisations are planning to commit a criminal offence, which is also reflected in this normative framework of problematic behavior in particular and emphatically. Do municipalities know they have these powers? Is that what this conversation is about from the ministry with municipalities? We must make every effort to make life as difficult as possible for these organisations that undermine our rule of law. Finally. Around 1 million Muslims live in the Netherlands. Most of them think with the CDA that you can't act hard enough to build a dam against Muslim extremists. And how does the government involve these people of good will in the fight against Muslim extremists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u30	I wanted Mrs Keijzer to finish her speech, because I was not sure if my question would come at the right time. That's why I didn't come up with my question until now. At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Keijzer said that Salafist organisations were undermining democracy and the rule of law. What does Mrs Keijzer think about Islam democratically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u31	There are currents within Islam with ideas that are absolutely contrary to our rule of law. But there are also, as I said in the last part of my speech, a lot of Muslims who, like you and I, work, care for their children, care for their parents and are part of sports associations. So I'm not going along with the PVV's words that you have to tell all the people who have the faith of Islam to get out of the country. That's not how I look at Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u32	Then I would like to know where in the Acts or wherever there is to read that a PVV has once called for the removal of all Muslims from the Netherlands. 'Cause that's pertinently untrue. I think it's a very dirty accusation, too. We never will. I think it's a really nasty accusation. But to the question of what is democratic about Islam, Mrs Keijzer answers that there are currents within Islam that are antidemocratic and anti-judicial. Now all these currents read the same Koran, the same Sira, the same Hadith, the same Sharia and use the same fatwas. What is the difference between Islam and those organisations that Mrs Keijzer claims to fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u33	I'm just not going in the discourse of the PVV. I'm so sorry. I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u34	I'm asking an open question, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u35	I understand that Mr De Graaf is very keen to do so, but I am simply not doing so. We just need to be very precise. We must be very precise where people who adhere to Islam cross the border of our rule of law. And then you can't perform hard enough. That's what I asked the government. Are all legal possibilities used to make the lives of these organisations and these people as sour as possible? But let us also note with each other that there are a lot of Muslims, the majority, who, like me, feel that you cannot act hard enough against that. Mr. Chairman. It would do us all and ultimately the fight against Muslim extremistism good if we made these people allies instead of insulting them every time with the words used by PVV's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u37	Short response, Mr. Chairman. If you want to do what Mrs Keijzer says, but have no answer to a very precise question from the PVV, without talking about people, this is purely an ideological question. My final conclusion is therefore that the CDA is completely lost in the Islam debate and does not know which way to go. Not the CDA is precise. The PVV is precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u38	The PVV is always very precise about the fact that all mosques must be closed and all Qurans must leave the country. The PVV is very precise in this respect, but the PVV is never precise in terms of concrete measures to tackle Muslim extremistism. I never hear the PVV about that. I've been studying the Wet Bibob again this afternoon. I went into that again, because I thought: maybe this is a way to support communities to make life as miserable as possible for these organizations. Then you do something concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u40	Well, Mr. Chairman. Another debate on the foreign financing of mosques. And why? Because the islamophobic electoral earning model of the PVV once again saw an excellent opportunity to request a debate to put Islam and mosques again as enemies. That's hypocritical of a party that's on a foreign currency infusion itself from a hate-sowing club in America. It's hypocritical because we pride ourselves on the separation of Church and State. The Church may not interfere with the State, but the State must shut down the PVV mosques. But above all, it is wrong, because almost all mosques do their best to contribute to society. They are trying to counter radicalisation. They offer homework guidance. They are trying to prevent young people from getting involved in crime. That is why I dare to put it bluntly: the contribution of mosques to Dutch society is greater than the contribution of the PVV. The PVV does not oppose radicalisation. The PVV is in control of radicalisation of "own people first" calling baldheads. The PVV does not provide homework guidance. The PVV wants to close well-scoring Islamic schools. And I can go on like this for a while. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is the guiding principle for DENK. Wherever there is an active appeal to violate our rule of law, where state-undermining activities are being carried out, where we are called upon to break our law and where we are called upon to discriminate, action must be taken. Whether it's in a church or in a mosque, in a football canteen, at a book club or at Mr. De Graaf's dining room table, there's got to be interference everywhere. Not only at mosques, but everywhere. Therefore, authorities such as the AIVD and the Public Prosecutor's Office should be given sufficient resources to intervene. Mr. Chairman. The second guiding principle for DENK is transparency, including transparency of foreign funding of religious institutions. We therefore welcome the insight into the financing of mosques. We also welcome the measures taken to curb the flow of money from bad clubs. But also here: not only do it with mosques, be consistent and focus not only on one group. That is why I ask the Minister: how much foreign money do church communities, synagogues, the Scientology Church get? The latter, but the most important principle for DENK is reciprocity. If we ask for transparency from foreign financiers, we, the Netherlands, must also give transparency. After all, we cannot see the funding from abroad of a mosque as suspicious, while there is no sight of the money we send to Africa and the Middle East under the guise of missionary work and missionary work. Finally, Mr President. It's easy to yell all kinds of things about mosques from here. We have also spoken to a number of mosque leaders in the preparation for this debate. What they're asking is actually very simple. They say: enforce criminal law without double standards, tackle the organisations that break the law and clearly state what is meant by 'unwanted funding' so that we can work on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u42	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mr President, thank you very much. In recent years, the debate on undesirable foreign financing has been taking place in many places and has increased. Clearly, there's a lot of concern. This is also apparent from the many debates we have had with each other on this subject and which have been held with fellow ministers on this subject. We share the importance attached to this and the desire to have more instruments available to discourage undesirable funding. I think it is important to put the problem in the right perspective first. This starts with the observation that we know freedom of religion here, which is a great asset and which is enshrined in the Constitution. This means that every community of faith is, in principle, free to attract funding from abroad. So the problem is not with foreign financing as such. Therefore, a general ban on foreign financing is not on the table. Problematic or undesirable is a lack of transparency between donors and donor countries as well as recipients. Problem is that sometimes through foreign funding there is support for organisations or groups that advocate anti-integrative, anti-democratic and intolerant behaviour. This kind of behaviour has given rise to the questions that have been asked here in recent years. Intolerant behaviour in some salafistic mosques was associated with influence from the Gulf States, with funding as a means. For messages that contradict freedom of expression and religion or otherwise undermine our rule of law, there is no room in the Dutch rule of law. Unwanted foreign financing is a complex issue. This means that there are no simple, ready-made answers and that we need to be realistic about them. There may be conflicting fundamental rights. The principle of separation between Church and State must be taken into account. It is complex to shape it in such a way that it strengthens relations in our society. The Empire has the responsibility to share information it receives from foreign powers wherever possible with relevant municipalities. Municipalities, in turn, have the responsibility to discuss this issue. They just asked me to start a conversation, start a conversation? Yeah, we're not in the criminal justice system right now. There are three methods for dealing with salafism. 1. Dialogue. Address: what is going on here? 2. More importantly, disrupting, making trouble, bullying. 3. True enforcement of the rules there are, criminal law and so on. If there is no reason to use 2 or 3, you will need to use level 1. This may later lead to findings that would justify more serious intervention, but it begins with information that we receive being shared with municipalities so that they can enter into the conversation. This is not without obligation, but is done from a framework about what we do and do not think is desirable in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Several parties asked about the progress of the measures we have taken. We know that additional instruments are needed. We've had an exchange of views with the Chamber on that before. Dutch municipalities, the NCTV, SZW, Finance, the AIVD, the Public Prosecutor's Office, Foreign Affairs and V and J are jointly responsible for increasing transparency. The commitment of all those parties is essential when it comes to improving transparency. The approach is set out in the above-mentioned letter. Looking at the progress made, I can tell you that, first of all, the FEC/FIU pilot foreign funding was launched in September. This pilot aims to better identify the foreign financing of non-profit institutions, one or more of which may be directly or indirectly linked to terrorism or its financing. Such funding is considered undesirable because of the indirect or indirect relationship with agents involved in terrorism or its financing. By doing so, we are trying to gain more insight into how these funding flows of non-profit organisations work. We try to get a grip on that by analysing that information with a multidisciplinary team of FEC partners and other relevant organisations. That's important, but you can already hear that it's a complex process that all partners in the FEC are involved in. The FEC includes Tax Office, Public Prosecutor's Office and, of course, De Nederlandsche Bank. Secondly, at the end of 2016 several umbrella organisations discussed the problem of unwanted foreign funding. It has been agreed that a covenant will be worked out and helped. I think this is also important, because it was rightly pointed out by several parties that the Dutch Muslim community is and must remain our ally in the fight against radicalisation, against unwanted funding and against extremism. We can best resist this threat if the we group includes the many Dutch Muslims. I would like to quote Mrs Keijzer in it who contribute to our country, who work hard and who, like us, have a little brother killed by extremism. In the course of 2018 the covenant is expected to be there. This could lead to unwanted funding being brought to light and countered by these umbrella organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mrs. Tellegen has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u45	I'm allowed to do that from this place, for which I'm grateful. In those pilots the Minister spoke of, there is a very clear distinction between direct financing of terrorism, which we are expressly not talking about today, and indirect funding flows. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u47	So the pilot sees the financing that has indirect influence, not the direct financing of terrorism, because that is already criminal? We haven't solved that from A to Z, but we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u48	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u49	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u50	That's right. We were looking for criteria. The cabinet has said that legislation should be put in place to prevent unwanted funding. The question is how to define unwanted funding. Everyone in this room knows that this is difficult, because you observe the separation of Church and State, as does freedom of religion. How do you support what's undesirable, do you want to stop it in a state of law? To find those criteria, this pilot project has started. So this pilot project is going beyond what is already criminally prohibited through the law on terrorist financing, by looking at the networks and the financial flows around non-profit organisations, which can in any way be indirectly linked to persons who may be linked to terrorism. So you're widening the circle. There is no criminality, but you map out those networks and money flows, hoping that you can develop criteria that allow you to identify unwantedness, not yet criminality. That could be the basis for legislation, to say that we no longer want to allow it. You have to define that within the rule of law. That is one of the reasons why this has not been done before. That's what that pilot is very important for. We in the Chamber will have to weigh the results very carefully on the basis of the Constitution and international treaties. I hope and expect that you will then have an additional instrument in your hands to prevent funding that is not in itself punishable, but undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u51	How long has this pilot been running? Did it just start?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u52	That pilot has just begun and will be running for a while. Then I come straight to the follow-up question: when will the legislation we really want come? This concerns the Minister of V and J, who is not here now, but has informed me that he will send an update to the Chamber before the end of the year, an exploration, which I can assume will include a planning of what this legislative process looks like. When we sent the letter, it was already clear that a new cabinet would implement this legislation, because of the complexity of this matter, so that's no surprise. Before the end of the year there will be an update from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf asks about other funding, for example from Western countries towards mosques. That is why the framework that I outlined at the beginning is important. Foreign financing as such is not the problem. It concerns funding that focuses on anti-legal behaviour or that can contribute to problematic behavior. That's where we're gonna have to break up. This means that foreign funding as such should not be understood as a problem, but rather that we are working on ways to identify which funding is undesirable, which you should therefore be able to stop. Do we have a look at the role of shady offices, asks the PVV. Unusual transactions reported to FIU-Netherlands shall be analysed by the FIU and, where relevant, shared with the law enforcement authority. In a number of cases, FIU-Netherlands has also seen smaller amounts coming in through reporting institutions. Such smaller offices are also supervised. So again the question is: do we see something that is not right, something that is suspicious? It's kind of like Mr. De Graaf just described it. On the basis of the information gathered there for analysis, FIU can indeed report, monitor and engage law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u55	A quick question. For example, for the mosque in Gouda that has not yet gone ahead and I hope that never will ever continue after collections a lot of money has become available at once. Can the FIU, for example, see that a lot of money suddenly goes to people in Gouda and discovers a pattern in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u56	I cannot now say anything about Gouda; Mr De Graaf understands that. What I can say is that an unusual transaction is not only defined by the size of the amount. I think that's what he's asking for. So it can also be small amounts. An unusual transaction may also consist of a multitude of small amounts for a particular purpose that is unusual or with a particular source that is unusual. I think that's the reassurance Mr De Graaf is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u57	Exactly that, indeed. If a swarm ends up in one location or around a location, if something swarms from one location or if it ends up in one location in the Netherlands: that's exactly what I mean. Because then you can locate it. For example, there is a lot of money coming from Qatar, from Kuwait, or from Turkey, and then a new mosque board pops up at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u58	If this has been reported to FIU, after analysis it can indeed be considered an unusual transaction within the meaning of the law and, if there is sufficient evidence, it can lead to supervision, monitoring and even law enforcement. How's alFirah doing now? Like the MPs, I am surprised by the latest developments there. The city council of Utrecht also asked the necessary questions about it. There is close contact with the municipality of Utrecht about this case. The municipality is there, I think, active and activist. It is primarily a business between property owner and tenant. There was an agreement that the tenant had a right of sale. Utrecht also has contact with the investigation services and follows developments closely. That is all I can say at the moment. Jasper van Dijk of the SP asked a question about the growth of salafism. The cabinet shares the concern of the Chamber about the statements that break the boundaries of the law or that run counter to our democratic rule of law. They do not relate to principles of the rule of law. This requires an integrated approach in cooperation with national and local partners from the security domain, the social domain and from the communities themselves. That is why, in April, I held consultations with the Minister of V and J with the most concerned municipalities on stepping up the existing three-track approach. In concrete terms, this means that, in consultation with municipalities, it is currently being considered whether and how the local government can support communities that, like the government, are concerned about that purchased influence of salafism. The sense of urgency for proportionate but timely and precise action in forms of unwanted behaviour is shared by the municipalities with which we had that conversation. They're working on it now. The CDA asked Mrs Keijzer whether municipalities are aware of the powers they have under the Bibob Act. If I am not mistaken, that question was also asked by Mr Potters of the VVD in 2015. How can you use the Bibob Act in this context, in transactions, but also in permits? My view is that municipalities are certainly aware of the possibilities and also apply the law to Salafist organisations that display unwanted behaviour. For that there is a wide range of instruments and this is an interesting instrument. In the knowledge network that we have organised to help municipalities exchange knowledge about how to deal with this, knowledge about the Bibob Act is also so actively shared that municipalities can really work with it. I think that's exactly what Mrs Keijzer was informing us about. It is well known that these powers exist. We all know that application of this is quite accurate. It is therefore important that municipalities share their experience in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u59	I had also asked a question about openness and about funding by Gulf States other than Kuwait for business in the Netherlands. Is that what the Foreign Minister is going to say or are you going to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u60	It is true that we have divided it so much between ourselves that I am trying to outline the framework that my colleague from the Foreign Affairs will address the questions about diplomatic actions and the various Gulf States. The VVD asked about the bill of publication of foundations. Sure, you can. That did not happen for political reasons at the time. In the Lower House there were concerns about the effects, not so much on radicalisation, but on wealthy Dutch people on the one hand and the administrative burden of stamp collectors on the other. I would be inclined, for what it is worth, to say: yes, that bill must still pass through the Chamber. I am very much in favour of that, but then it will have to be seen whether there is a majority in the Chamber for that. In the past, the VVD has spoken out against this. What exactly is the situation at the moment, perhaps Mrs Tellegen knows better than I do. But we mentioned it in that letter as one of the instruments that you could pull out of the closet and help to get more transparency. D66 asked when the covenant was coming. The answer is: in the course of 2018. The PVV asked: why doesn't there be a ban à la Austria? Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. De Graaf told me that the VVD asked for this. Austria has a different system of state religions, including Islam. In that system, it is appropriate for Austria to be deeply involved in the content of religions. Of course, we have a very different system, with a different form of freedom. With us we do not accept it if the State so directly interferes with what religious thoughts, currents and beliefs are allowed. In this context, it is appropriate that such measures are taken on the basis of Austrian legislation. It is not true that they do not know this problem there, but they are choosing a different solution. I have picked that out before for the Chamber because I was also curious about the new legislation from Austria, and this is the explanation. For Austria, too, the question arises as to whether its legislation is not contrary to international conventions, in particular the ECHR, but this must be borne in mind. Mrs Keijzer asked how moderate Muslims are involved in the fight against extremism. I said something about that. I have noticed that the various umbrella organizations and the various active members of that community, who feel responsible for the way things are going in this country, are concerned when suddenly a mosque pops up next to the existing mosque with a bag of money from the Gulf and there ideas are being spread that they do not feel at all at home with; they do not want their children to go there either. That graces these active people and that also motivates them to work on a covenant to counter these kinds of things as much as possible. These people show real commitment to keeping radicalisation, extremism and terror out of the door in the interests of all of us and of our future. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr President, I am a little jealous of Mrs Tellegen's microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u62	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u63	Minister, you have just spoken about cooperation with the Muslim community in the Netherlands. Do you have any tools at your disposal to further strengthen that community? She is often also under pressure from the Salafist groups. Do you have instruments at your disposal or do you see opportunities to strengthen these kinds of groups, so that they can better position themselves in Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u64	Where it is often lacking therefore those organizations are vulnerable to purchased influence.............................................................................................................................................................................................. They are often quite defenseless against attempts by people to buy in or to break into existing structures. That is one of the issues that the Minister of V and J and I discussed in April of this year with the municipalities that are now most concerned with the growth of salafism. These municipalities are now exploring whether there is a need for support and, if so, what form that support could take, but of course within the separation of Church and State, which belongs in our state system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u65	I have one more question about the Bill of Public Procurement Foundations. I know why the VVD was against it. It was precisely about proportionality. We are talking tonight about a small, select group of mosques in the Netherlands that pose a potential danger to our legal order. The law on the obligation to publish would oblige everyone to exercise openness of finance, whereas we would like to do so much more specifically. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he sees it. With the law on publication it would be almost disproportionate to ask that of others, while we have no problem with them at all. My question to the Minister is how we can correctly define this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u66	Of course, you don't know in advance which foundation is problematic. People do not register their foundation as "Stichting Extremiste Mosque Leiden." That's not how it works. So you will have to ask for a basic level of transparency and that obligation alone can be helpful. Then, if people don't meet that, you'll have another title to be stricter. For example, when people don't give the right figures, they don't do it in time, et cetera. It doesn't seem like such a big load to me. Most foundations of some size already have all kinds of obligations. In my view, therefore, the problem lies not in the administrative burden, but in the desire for secrecy which some foundations know. You could say that at this time it might be preferable to ask for that transparency. That's what that legislation says. Does that make it disproportionate? I don't think so. Look, you shouldn't make extreme demands on transparency, but I don't think a certain transparency is crazy at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u67	We should look at that again. But when I read this afternoon about that case from Utrecht.... we have been working on this mosque for some time now, then it frustrates me, and I think many of us and the minister too, that at such a time we do not have a suitable instrument to simply say: we now force you to apply financial transparency beyond the comma. So what instruments, in addition to this Publication Act, does a mayor, the police or anyone else have at the time to force such a mosque into financial transparency? That's where it's limping now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u68	That depends. There may be a suspicion of criminal offences. There is, of course, an ongoing criminal case against alFirah. The law, specifically the Code of Criminal Procedure, then has all kinds of powers, including powers to investigate and to look at things more closely. There's a FIOD case out there. There's an embezzlement case out there. That is what the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing, and that has far-reaching powers. We know that. At the same time, a mayor, without suspicion of criminal offences, cannot force any organisations to disclose what the law does not otherwise require. That seems to me to be a good thing in itself. We're right here at the intersection. Criminal law is in the process here and may also be successful in finding, proving and bringing to justice or getting convicted of crimes. In the meantime, however, we notice the impatience, and we share that impatience, in order to intervene in a situation where there are too many indications that it is undesirable. The administrative approach of municipalities is often at that intersection, using instruments such as the Bibob. That was also the way the municipality of Rotterdam intervened in that case in Rotterdam. The Minister of Foreign Affairs may say something about that. As a society, you will have to see if your instruments outside criminal law are sufficiently up-to-date. In this context, it makes sense to share this knowledge with municipalities. We can ask the municipalities that have invented something that can make you act more effectively to exchange it with others. In this way, we can ensure that we have information at our disposal. But we can also invest in the Muslim community itself, which is often much earlier and much better able to identify and counter things, not on the basis of the law, but on the basis of its own knowledge and network. So I do wish that we should continue along this line, because, if used properly, it could always be faster and more effective than acting with criminal law or with other powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you, Madam President. For me too, it is important that we discuss this again tonight. Clearly, there's a lot of concern. The Minister for Social Affairs has already spoken about this. It's a concern the Cabinet shares. We have also talked about the framework in which we see things, about a number of pilots we are working on, about cooperation with the municipalities and about the need to make progress at least before the end of the year in terms of the legal framework. Within these framework conditions, I also think it is important for the Foreign Minister to take responsibility for obtaining maximum information to see if we can get that transparency from outside. Mrs Tellegen also spoke about this. There is a whole problem at the domestic level. The Minister of SZW has just spoken about this. What could we actually actively contribute to improving these information flows? A number of questions have been asked about this and I would like to answer them. First of all, it is good to make a clear distinction with terrorist financing. That's really different. We're actively working on that. We have had other debates about this in this Chamber. That's a really different matter. This is a matter of financing from abroad, particularly the Gulf States, which sometimes supports organizations or groups that advocate anti-democratic, anti-integrative and intolerant behaviour. So that's really different from terrorist financing. The entire instruments were discussed in the 2016 letter. Since the discussion we have had here in the Chamber, we have actually taken the initiative as the first Member State of the European Union to actively initiate dialogue with Gulf countries in order to reach structural agreements on foreign financing. We're getting other countries with us now. I'll say something about that in a minute. In the letter on the concreteisation of the approach to salafism of 25 February 2016, your Chamber was informed of this for the first time. You can now see other European countries following active diplomatic approaches. We are also talking to a number of similar European countries to see where we can learn from each other. Sometimes it is better to do it together, then you have a slightly more powerful position. It's also about the system. Everyone understands it's a little sensitive. What flows are we talking about? From which organizations? Are they individuals, charities, or is it the government? In any case, it is important to say that this European approach, at least with a number of countries, is now being strengthened. How's the dialogue going? A number of questions have been asked about this. Do these Gulf countries really have an interest in entering into this dialogue? I find it interesting that in fact that is the case, for a number of reasons. In this sense, there has also been a change in the Gulf States over the past period. They want to avoid the risk of funding Islamic institutions being used for terrorist purposes. By sharing that information, they want to prevent such funding from being in breach of the Dutch rule of law. That is also explicitly stated. They also find it very annoying when they get negative in the news. On the contrary, they want to build a more positive image. And finally, they also become increasingly aware of the radical messages that are proclaimed in the name of Islam in some Dutch mosques. You can see that yourself when you look at the actions of the governments in the region when it comes to their own organisations. This does not mean that everything has changed from one day to the next, but it is important to respond to that, to ensure that we can also get effective information. As far as I am concerned, the communication channels are as open as possible to ensure that we also receive maximum information. In the end, of course, it's a matter of volunteering. We cannot force those countries to give it to us. I shall come back in a moment to the question of how this is going to happen. By the way, I say to everyone that this does not mean that we would suddenly have a lack of criticism of countries when it comes to human rights situations or situations such as we discussed last week when it came to Yemen. We must also ensure that we do not equate all information and all funding. Where are we now? All four countries I have just mentioned, so Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, are now ready to cooperate with us on agreements. By the way, starting the conversation alone seems to have had a discouraging effect, but that is not entirely evident. Saudi Arabia, for example, has not approved funding for the Netherlands in the past year. So I'm talking about the government of KSA. It has agreed not to do so for the time being. Kuwait also does not approve any new applications for the time being. I told the Chamber earlier that we want to establish agreements with these countries, if possible in MoUs. There are still a number of hooks and eyes to that. This has to do with a number of points which I would like to put to you here, which makes it complicated. A number of countries actually prefer oral rather than written agreements. We're a little less for that. For example, the United Arab Emirates is concerned with one dossier, namely the Essalam Mosque in Rotterdam. They do not immediately see it as a big enough problem to make firm agreements. We think the problem is big enough. More importantly, there is reciprocity. There's a problem there. I believe that Mr Kuzu spoke about this too. It also has something to do with the discussion the SoZaWe Minister talked about regarding the development of legal frameworks. A number of countries say that if you want us to do so, we want you to do so too. There are also legal restrictions in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, too, there are organisations that are free to support organisations in other countries, such as human rights organisations. Then, of course, we will have the debate on reciprocity: are you prepared to do the same with regard to organisations that finance in our countries? I have some problems with that, given that we also support a number of human rights organisations. There is a real dilemma there. I'd like to have that named here, too. Secondly, a number of countries are actually saying that we are prepared to go very far with you. I believe that this dialogue, I shall say something about Rotterdam in a moment, is very helpful. That does not mean that there is complete certainty and that we know everything, including all individuals. But there's a big difference from the period of some time ago. At the same time, they want us not only to have reciprocity, but also to indicate what funding we do not want. It is important that there is at least a legal framework for this. The Minister of SoZaWe rightly said so. It is difficult for me, as the Foreign Minister, to say: don't finance it, and it is. That would be a kind of discretionary power of a minister who says: I report to the Government of Saudi Arabia that I do not want her to finance it. Of course, there must be guidelines for this. There must be a framework for that. That is what the Minister of SoZaWe rightly pointed out by saying: that is really complicated. It is really complicated, also from the legal position of the Netherlands. But we are prepared, I am also in favour of such a legal framework. As a result of the pilot that is now available and all the information that is then being developed, you could move on to something. I can imagine that a new minister of V and J will do the same, but that is obviously up to the person who will take that position. I say the following with regard to a number of the lists, particularly those from Kuwait. They were delivered to you confidentially. I think it is positive that they are delivered. Those are actually lists that we can use in the discussions with intelligence services and the municipalities, as the Minister of SoZaWe has just mentioned. I am prepared to inform the Chamber of this matter in confidence on a six-monthly basis. I still think that confidentiality is important. Although this information on funding is shared with the intelligence services, at least with the various cooperating organisations and the municipalities, I do think it is important that we continue to receive this information. I therefore believe that confidentiality is a good means of really putting a dent in a pack of butter. A number of members have asked whether we can continue to work with Qatar on that basis. You can have all kinds of big discussions about funding, but you also need to see if it delivers any concrete results. In Qatar, since September last year, I have really taken that case and made every effort to bring the Rotterdam case to a successful conclusion. I myself spoke to my Qatari colleague several times and sent an envoy to Qatar. There has been constant close contact between my ministry, our embassy in Doha and the municipality of Rotterdam to conduct talks with the Qatari government and the lender. I think that this is a really good example of how important and necessary greater transparency is. It was also just discussed by Mrs Tellegen and the Minister of SoZaWe. The Dutch charities of the charity in Qatar were found to have different agendas. The Qatar Charity Foundation was ambushed by this and was also very unhappy about the fuss that had arisen in our country. In the end, the Qatari charity has worked well to find a solution and has managed to agree to sell the building to a party that is acceptable to the municipality of Rotterdam. At the moment, the last legal-technical acts take place to make this possible and thus to solve the problem. That seems to me to be a good result. I don't know if we always get that, but of course that's the way surgery should be done. In this sense, the case of the Rotterdam school is therefore a positive example. Questions have been asked about the Danish mosque and the Qatar Embassy. I would just like to say that the Qatar Embassy in The Hague is simply responsible for Denmark. So that's a co-accreditation. The Danish colleagues have informed me that there are no criminal investigations into this mosque. What countries are we talking about? I just mentioned four. These countries are also willing to go quite far in terms of transparency and to keep any requests. 'Cause that's what the list's about. It is therefore also limited to requests from Dutch mosques and institutions to the institutions in these four countries. I think that is a very important start and that we are beginning to achieve some results. I would also like to continue this very much, bearing in mind the dilemmas I have just mentioned. That is not what Indonesia and Turkey belong to, for example, in relation to questions that have been asked. We have a very different issue with Turkey. We're discussing it separately, not because I don't want to talk about it right now, but because it's about another case. This concerns the financing of Diyanet images from Turkey, people who are officials of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. There is now a discussion with the Chamber in other bodies on how to deal with this. I have, as you know, cut the ties between the Turkish embassy and the management, if I may say so, of Diyanet in the Netherlands. A question has been asked about Indonesia. There is no concrete reason to do so at the moment. It is not the case that we do that with all countries. It was really about the core of that Salafist movement and its element that was antidemocratic and anti-integrative. But of course we don't rule out anything when it comes to discussions with other countries. The last question was a question from the D66 Group. The RIHS, which is also mentioned in a number of articles, has, as it is called, a head office which is not included in the UN sanctioning list. If that were the case, you could of course also tackle organisations on the basis of anti-terrorism legislation. Then you have to freeze assets and stuff. Of course, it is important to keep an eye on that organisation. I think I have answered the questions that have been put to me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u71	Is it true that this organization is on the United States terrorist list? Does the Minister have a reaction to that? How can there be light between an EU list, a US list and the UN list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u72	That can be, "unfortunately," I'd like to say. It's exactly what you're saying. The United States has the entire organization on their national freezing list. The organisation as a whole and headquarters in Kuwait are not on the EU or UN sanctions list. Of course, that happened with reason. That does not alter the fact that we are keeping a close eye on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u73	Thank you. Very briefly, Mrs. Tellegen. There is also a second deadline and I see Members impatiently entering the Chamber before the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u74	Very short and just out of interest. The Minister for Foreign Affairs speaks of requests. Do I have to say that this is always a movement of requests from Dutch institutions to the Gulf countries which are then granted? Or does it work the other way around? We're discussing two things tonight. 1. You want to map out the problem, the currents. 2. Then it's about the solution, and that's a lot harder. Is it always a request from here to a Gulf State or are initiatives being taken from the Gulf States themselves to bring a bag of money here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u75	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u76	I can't say this exactly 100%. It is indeed quite complicated, but normally it works as follows. Maybe it's a somewhat unfortunate comparison for some people, but there's also institutions like Novib here. Requests are made and mapped out. This is also the most likely source of funding, but others are of course not entirely excluded. That is the essence of the matter. We are prepared to give this transparency. I do not rule out the fact that this also applies to the other side of the movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u77	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Not with everyone, but with Mr. De Graaf of the PVV. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, this is the last debate with the Minister of SZW after five years of a cabinet of VVD and PvdA, and now with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank the Minister for the fierce debates we have had all these years. Even though we often disagreed, they were often fine debates. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I have a question. During the debate, the Algemeen Dagblad entered the news that the Stichting alFirah has already sold the property to an investor, Hawking Europe BV from Oostvoorne. When I read the message so quickly, I don't think it's very clear and transparent. Without a motion, the Minister would like to ask if he would like to investigate this deal and the money flows to and from this company because it has helped this organisation. Once the apartments are built on site, they can earn six tons to fund their new mosque. That seems very undesirable to us. I would like an undertaking from the Minister, and I shall not table a motion on that. I don't feel like it. Mr. Chairman. I do have the next motion I've already announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam is a totalitarian, violent ideology aimed at overthrowing democracy and the rule of law;]] [[Whereas mosques are the basis of Islamic infrastructure;]] [[calls on the government to close all mosques in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. Chairman. There are actually two things in this debate: on the one hand, transparency about money flows and about organisations and on the other hand, the approach to funding that is wrong according to our standards. With regard to the transparency of these organisations, I would like to ask what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Roemer/Zijlstra motion calling for the identification of these Salafist organisations. As far as the misfinancing is concerned, I am waiting for the measures to be taken. Then the transparency of the money flows remains. We now have some information from Kuwait, but not enough from the other Gulf States. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is a view of the financing of Islamic organisations from Kuwait, but there is still no openness about financing from other Gulf States;]] [[calls on the Government to make an overview of money flows from the Gulf States to Dutch Islamic organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr. Chairman. I am standing here, but I realize that I should have asked this question just at the end of the government's term. But that slipped my mind then, so I'm standing right here. I have missed the answer to my question whether, on the basis of that normative framework, problematic behavior in the Netherlands has been declared undesirable and, if so, which are prayer houses. So I'm going to repeat it here. It would have been more convenient if I'd just done that. Anyway, in a second term, you can always do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you. Mr Kuzu stated that he did not need a second-term contribution. Then we're done with the second term of the Chamber. We wait until the ministers have received the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u82	President. - I call the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the motion I'll appreciate. That's De Graaf's and Wilders' motion to part No. 63, which proposes to close all mosques in the Netherlands. In doing so, the PVV shows that it is not interested in what is happening in those mosques and who is going to pray there and therefore not to make any distinction between people who wear our society and people who attack our society. It is therefore a motion which is not only contrary to the Constitution, but also to our principles in the Netherlands, and these are the values that we must defend. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. Then there is Mrs Keijzer's question. That's a tricky question, because it's not that you consider a mosque undesirable. It's always about the behavior. There are, of course, examples of this. I have spoken before about the behavior of alFirah from Utrecht, to mention just one example. It always focuses on behavior that you want to tackle and that you want to fight. Unless there is enough to be found in criminal law to take further action, we must always look at what behavior and behaviour is not acceptable. Then there's another question from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u84	Before you go any further, Mrs Keijzer would like to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u85	Yes, a brief question, Mr. Chairman. I understand the Minister's nuance. However, I would like to know whether it is possible to imagine that at some point you reach a point where you say: and now it is ready, this prayer house is considered undesirable under that normative framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u86	Well, it's certainly conceivable that a prayer house can even be closed on the basis of proven criminal acts. That's imaginable. But the normative framework offers a handle precisely where criminal law is not yet at stake. We must try not to confuse this, because in criminal law you can take more far-reaching measures than just on the basis of the normative framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u87	That is correct, but within the normative framework there are also the different steps that end up in criminality at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u88	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u89	I can imagine that if you add all that together, at some point the composition of behaviour can lead to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u90	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u91	I see the Minister nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u92	Sure. In fact, where the rule of law is not only called into question or expressed at odds with the values of the rule of law, but the rule of law is also attacked, that rule of law also has teeth and will be defended, regardless of who is attacking it and whether it is a house of prayer or not. The law has powers for this and they will also be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u94	I still have a question to answer from the SP, Mr President. It was about the motion-Roemer/Zijlstra or Zijlstra/Roemer. What was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u95	Roemer/Zijlstra!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u96	Roemer/Zijlstra. Otherwise Mr Van Dijk would not have asked. There's been an intermediate of that. If I remember correctly, the total would come at the end of this year. In any case, there has been an interim report with part of the list requested by Roemer, and Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u97	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you. Mr De Graaf has another question for the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u99	Sorry, I forgot to answer his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u100	Yes. I thought maybe the Foreign Minister will answer that. But I didn't think that would make any sense. I had asked if there could be an investigation into the deal that was concluded, the company, the interests, the relationships and the money flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u101	Yes, the question of the latest news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u102	My apologies, I forgot to answer that question because I went straight to Mr De Graaf's motion. This task, of course, lies with the municipality of Utrecht. I have just said, also in response to the questions raised in the first term, that the municipality of Utrecht is also looking very closely at what is going on there and is in contact with investigative authorities. The municipality of Utrecht is therefore also in the first place in position to see what happened there. But we are in close contact with the municipality of Utrecht. So what I can promise you is that we will inform you about this and to share any findings of the municipality of Utrecht with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u103	Thank you. I now turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u104	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to give an opinion on Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution on item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Firstly, the first recital states that there is a view of financing Islamic organisations from Kuwait, but that there is no openness yet about funding from other Gulf states. That consideration is not in itself correct. The Chamber has been informed confidentially of a list which also covers other countries. We are now building this transparency with regard to the four countries in question. The operative part states that: "The government requests to make an overview of money flows from the Gulf States to Dutch Islamic organisations. In fact, that's what we're doing right now. I have just said: whether this can be entirely complete and voluntary depends on a number of elements relating to reciprocity and that legal framework. But I am very sympathetic to the motion. May I interpret her as follows? It is therefore about the fact that at least we are moving forward with those four countries. We are also trying to make as complete a list as possible. Wherever possible, we will make it public, but otherwise we will disclose it confidentially to the Chamber. That is actually the interpretation I would like to give to that motion, because I have the impression that we are doing exactly what Mr Van Dijk really wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u105	Well, Mr. Chairman, that sounds very good. I am also prepared to amend the motion on a number of points so that it becomes more correct. It is indeed about that first consideration which the Minister points out. So, ladies and gentlemen, I must announce that there will be an amended motion which is even better than the one before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u106	Mr President, I have an expectation that we will probably be able to give our support to this, as far as Mr Van Dijk is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-12.u108	This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the rulers.
