ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are at the heart of good education: the quality of teachers. That's really about something. Because if one factor is the most decisive factor for good education, they are good teachers. This debate is not on its own. It is the follow-up to a 24-year discussion, which is still topical. She started in 1993 with the opinion of the Van Es Committee. The report was called a profession with perspective. The Committee concluded that the teacher is the engine of educational renewal, that the professionalisation of teachers is still insufficient and that the role of teachers in their own development was too small. Some time later, in 2007, will be with LeerKracht! again delivered meaningful advice. I see the chairman of that committee now raising his thumb. That's good for me! But that report shows that little has changed. Once again, it is noted that teachers' professional groups are not sufficiently organized, teachers still have too little control over their own profession and continuing vocational training is a matter of continuing concern. The Rinnooy Kan Committee recommends that a public-law teacher register be established and that teachers be given direct control over the substantive development of their profession. In my view, these were sensible recommendations. But even now, ten years later, in 2017, the situation has not improved enough. Perhaps also because no action has yet been taken on the recommendations in the report, recommendations that run counter to the feeling that many teachers have, namely that they are not in control, that they do not have enough autonomy or space to do their job professionally. Our education does not currently provide the necessary space and teachers themselves do not take sufficient autonomy. Perhaps this can not only be done individually, as you cannot give education completely individually. The most recent advice of the Education Council on the professional area in education also indicates this. So what we are doing here today is mainly talking about collective space, collective autonomy of the professional group as a whole, discussing the professional group teachers in the education chain, but then also legally assessing and defining it. The bill gives substance to the so-called professional chain of the profession by doing a number of things: giving a definition of the profession of teacher, defining the professional space within the school, where exactly is that teacher going to lay the basis for a professional standard and introduce a system to make the maintenance of competence and competence more visible. Within the existing educational frameworks, we give the professional group teachers a solid position. They are given the substantive responsibility for their own professional quality. I think that's a good thing. All this means that something is going to change. Change is usually, perhaps always, accompanied by discussion, with emotion, with feelings of uncertainty. That is why I am pleased that we can have this debate here orally today, following a number of written rounds. Because being able to provide clarity is important for all 250,000 teachers who enter into this bill. Over the past period we have seen various expressions of discussion: in blogs, in letters, in petitions, teachers have made themselves heard. Sometimes they're positive, sometimes they're negative. I believe that acceptance is important for the success of the register. Many speakers have said that again today. At the same time, I also think that acceptance is something that needs to grow even further. It can grow further by getting started and experiencing what the register can bring for you as a teacher or for the collective of teachers as a profession. Senator Bruijn outlined a similar development in the healthcare sector: a lot of discussion during the introduction, but now it's about a BIG register that can't be imagined anymore. Unfortunately, there are also misunderstandings about the content of the bill. For example, I believe that the sectoral councils outline the unjustified image of a register that is completely in itself. Thus from LIA in the petition the concern that the register should be imposed from above on the teachers, and it is given the impression that schools will soon find themselves with many unregistered teachers, where dismissal would be fundamentally impossible. I hope to be able to overcome these misunderstandings in this debate. The starting point of the bill is that we give teachers the power and responsibility that fit their day-to-day work, which are necessary in order to be able to exercise their profession as effectively as possible. We are talking today about the creation of a professional register. Teachers themselves are very expressive about this, both the enthusiasts and those who are critical of the developments. They all think that they should go over it themselves. Actually, I see that as a common thread, all reactions run through. I fully agree with that, because that is the essence of this legislative proposal. This is why the meeting of participants has recently been set up. The participants' meeting is a platform for all registered teachers. It gives teachers based on one man, one vote a direct control over the different quality aspects of their profession. This is a very important step, also in the light of the above-mentioned opinion of the Rinnooy Kan Committee. Because that advice indicates that the profession is not sufficiently organized and that teachers have too little control. That is what we want to change with this bill. The meeting of participants meets these two problems. In order to carefully and properly develop the meeting of participants in the register, it is necessary to take time. The profession should also be awarded that time. That is one of the reasons why we are taking time in implementation, as has been the case in the health sector, for example. That is one of the reasons why, in response to the Council of State, we have chosen to phase in the register and take a little longer before it has final consequences and labour law consequences. Which brings me the first block. I would like to start with many of the questions that have been asked about the operation of the register itself. Next, I will briefly address the register portal, after which I will say something about control, to conclude with how this fits in with the much broader context of what is needed in addition to this bill to ensure that teachers can do their job properly. I'll start with the register as I said. The register is available to all qualified teachers. It is a question of qualified teachers in the register, I would just like to make it very clear. If you're not yet qualified, a big line under "yet," because I think it's important for everyone to work towards that authority. I say to Mr Kops: precisely the combination of a register for competent teachers with a register front portal, where it is quite clear that if you are not yet registered, you will certainly have to do so within the given time, and will certainly help to further reduce the number of unauthorized lessons. At least that is of enormous importance to me. Through the register, teachers make it clear that they are competent and that they maintain their competence. Once again, this is an instrument explicitly called a register, which is not an end in itself, but it is an important instrument. Teachers now often experience that their further training is seen as too non-binding. Moreover, they often miss the overview. Which offer is relevant to their field of expertise? What exactly is the quality of that offer? What is needed to exercise the profession of teacher is best determined by teachers themselves, the profession. After all, they know better than anyone what it takes to give good education. They are best informed of relevant developments in the educational, educational and vocational fields. That is precisely what we want to contribute to through this register. The register allows teachers in a portfolio to focus on their skills. The register also includes the value-added offer, so that teachers can better choose what they want to do in continuing training. The register thus gives an impetus to the development of a sufficiently good offer, I say in the direction of Mrs Sent and Mrs Gerkens. Of course, there is a forest of courses, training courses, conferences, forms of informal learning that you can choose from, but if we give the profession the confidence that it itself can give a good judgment and that it can also validate well, then I think that will help to improve that offer. The register creates a stronger and better-founded demand from the profession. Suppliers will focus on this and develop offers that better match the quality standards of the profession. We also want to make it possible in the register for teachers themselves, so those who have followed the offer, to provide that offer with an assessment. Think of it as some kind of rating. That also gives an image. This gives teachers additional information on the quality of training. The profession may also decide that this rating is subsequently part of the validation requirements. That's how you start a system. For example, it may result in activities valued by teachers under the quality standard no longer being entered in the register and no longer being validated. And yes, the register also makes it clear who does not meet the requirements at the end of a registration period, but it is mainly the four-year period that precedes it. Teachers work on their skills in those four years by participating in training activities themselves, with the result that each student has a teacher for the class who maintains his knowledge and skills. That is encouraged by this bill. I think that is also important, as I say in the direction of Mr Schalk. I think it is important to be open about this to parents and students. We must state that it is the most normal thing in the world that a teacher for the class, whatever profession he teaches, has his authority and that, if he does not have his authority, he is working to get it. I also refer a little bit to the discussion we had some time ago on this subject in the context of the debate on the Bishop's own-initiative proposal. At that time it was precisely the SGP that gave so much value to the quality requirements in education. And this is, for all intents and purposes, a necessity. It's a valid requirement that someone in charge of the classroom is authorized.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u2	There can be no misunderstanding about that. We're all in agreement on that. But then how does the Secretary of State judge my example of the competent chemistry teacher, let's say he's a doctor in chemistry who teaches physics at a school and who just isn't qualified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u3	I wouldn't be in favour of leaving it like that. You may have studied in chemistry for so long and so much; physics may have some similarities, but it is also another subject. In addition, this bill makes it possible for this teacher to teach physics lessons through the register portal, if he so wishes. There are then very good short-term training courses to ensure that this teacher also obtains his authority in the field of physics. That's what shortcuts are for. I attach great importance to this, because I think it is in the interests of students that they should be taught by real teachers, teachers who really have their expertise in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u4	I understand. At the beginning of his speech, however, the Secretary of State also mentioned the pedagogical and didactic skills that teachers should have. The lecturer I mentioned has proved to have these skills in another course, one might say: in an adjacent course, the teacher has proven to have those skills. It also came out in an interruption by Mrs Sent: it is ultimately a question of those pupils, the children, being educated by a skilled teacher and didactician. You can say "that teacher is not a PhD in physics and he is not as skilled as he is in chemistry," but it still wrings for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u5	That is precisely one of the reasons why I am so strongly in favour of many of these shortcuts. If you already have a teaching qualification in a particular subject, it is not necessary to go back to the full programme for another subject. You could very well assume that this teacher has already mastered the necessary didactic and pedagogical skills. But it is someone who has gained his first degree in chemistry and not in physics. Despite the fact that there is overlap between these two studies and that the shortened pathways take this into account, it would also be good for this teacher to obtain his second competence if he wanted to give a different profession structurally. I think we should want to get to that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u6	I believe that this is a problem for a lot of schools, because not everyone is willing to do so and the school is often forced to deal with its lessons efficiently. I have one more specific question. If someone gives unauthorized lessons, will that person be in the register as well as in the portal? Is that double?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u7	The latter is factual. That's right. Let me come back to the first part of the interruption, the remark that teachers may not be prepared to do so. That's a bit of the problem we're running into now and then. In some cases there is a lack of willingness to obtain a second qualification with reduced training for teachers who are structurally giving a second or third course in a discipline other than that in which they have obtained their diploma. I think this is a bad thing for education, because we know from a lot of inspection research that on average a qualified teacher can get more out of students than an unauthorized teacher. That power is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u8	However, there is also a great importance of the school involved. A first-degree chemistry teacher can, of course, give physics somewhere in the substructure. He's more than capable of doing that. However, he may not want to start doing a separate study on this, while the school needs it to do so, otherwise it will have to bring someone else in and he has hours to go. It's about that kind of practical situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u9	We will then make a great deal of concessions with a view to practical staff planning which are not in the interests of pupils in secondary education. Teachers work during that four-year period prior to re-registration by participating in training activities themselves. The result is that each student has a teacher for the class who maintains his knowledge and skills. As with so many other registry professions, teachers do so on the basis of standards of their own profession. Teachers draw together the re-registration criteria and the assessment framework for the training offer. I cannot stress this point often enough, because the LIA petition also shows that teachers do not necessarily assume that they will be the ones who determine the form and content of the register. Yes, it is. I would have liked to have spoken directly with LIA about this, as with the Education Cooperation, but LIA wanted to wait for this debate first. I understand that, but it's a shame. At the same time, I am confident that when this debate is over and there is a statement from this Chamber, we can sit around the table. After all, what LIA is actually asking is not far from what we intend and do with this bill. The PVV, the SGP and the CDA asked a number of questions in response to the points in the LIA petition. As I indicated in the reply, the register was designed on the basis of this bill in a way that is consistent with the key points of LIA. Most specifically, the CDA asked three questions. I can answer all these questions in the affirmative. Yes, the teacher is about the choice of the activities he wants to undertake in the context of his re-registration. And yes, the profession determines with the re-registration criteria and validation rules what administrative burden the teacher's register requires for his re-registration. I am sure that will be limited. And yes, the collective of all registered teachers owns the contents of the register. Through the participants meeting, the teachers themselves determine the contents of the register. The PVV also asked questions about the LIA petition. As I indicated in the reply, the establishment of the register will be at the meeting of participants. This means that it becomes a bottom-up register, which is filled out by teachers themselves. The teacher register will, of course, work even better if there is a connection with the HRM, staff policy in schools. The CDA, the PVV and the VVD asked for that. For this reason, the legislative proposal states that the professional group must involve the involvement of the sectoral councils in the preparation of the substantive criteria in good time. This is similar to the existing process for drawing up the current competence requirements. It is important that the sectoral councils check whether the proposal has a reasonable relationship with professional practice, i.e. with what happens to teachers in the school. The sectoral councils therefore have no right of assent. This would also be contrary to the philosophy of a register which belongs to the profession itself. You would give the employer the right to consent to something which should actually lie with the profession. The substantive consideration is thus ultimately made by the profession. OSF asked about the direction of the Education Co-operation on this process. The Education Co-operation facilitates and supports the process, for example in terms of scientific assurance of aspects such as acceptance, acceptance and representativeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u10	With regard to the link between the teacher register and human resource policy, you mentioned the role of the PO Council, the VO Council and the MBO Council, i.e. of the sector councils, but we are not talking about direct employers. What is the role of the schools in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u11	The schools are represented by these councils. They do so in many areas, for example when drawing up collective agreements or when making agreements with the government on major investment in education. That is also why these councils, when they have made an appointment, often go back to their employers and often put that appointment, as with a union, to the vote of their constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u12	I understand that, but the consequences of all agreements are also the legal consequences, which you will probably deal with later on with the direct employers and not with the councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u13	That's totally true. I shall come back to this very carefully, because almost all the groups have asked about the consequences of labour law, but also on the front I try to explain what the scope of the teacher register is as an instrument of the profession itself and how it is based on personnel policy. I shall therefore deal with this later. Because the mandatory registration starts on 1 August 2018, there is more time to carefully set up the process for the re-registration criteria. Next, the professional group's proposal comes to the Ministry to be established in a ministerial arrangement; Mr Kops asked for it. Once the proposal has been received, I will look into whether the professional group has indeed made it possible for the council to make its contribution in good time and whether the process has been careful and has gone well. If that has been the case, I am taking over the proposal in an arrangement. The legislative proposal therefore has an eye for both perspectives, both for the professional perspective and for the wider context in which the teacher works. If a teacher fails to meet the criteria after four years, a record shall be entered in the register. In the end, this note means that the teacher can no longer stand in front of the classroom, but we do not go ice in one night. We work in different phases towards that final situation. Once again, I will go into more detail on what this means in terms of employment law. Today we are talking specifically about the sectors of p.o., vo and mbo, but the quality of teachers in higher education is also important. Before I go into a number of specific questions about the operation of the register, I would like to answer Mr Bruijn's question: should we not also look at that? The VVD's question on the maintenance of skills is in line with the quality of the work that we want to do, particularly for the Minister, who is working on this subject, also in this sector. As the Minister stated at the end of last month in the Lower House in the AO on the progress of the Strategic Agenda, we do see positive developments in the H.o., such as the increase in the number of masters and PhDs, both in the basic qualification and in the senior qualification for education. Of course it can always be better. Ability maintenance in higher education certainly deserves attention. Today, however, we are discussing taking a number of steps in p.o., vo and mbo. This is subject to competence requirements. These are teachers who acquire the competence to give a course. There are no such requirements in higher education. That makes the situation there fundamentally different. I think it will be up to the next cabinet to look into this and to explore the possibility and desirability of a possible register in higher education as a possible instrument to ensure continuous maintenance of competence. I am now going from the operation of the register to the introduction of the register. A careful and responsible introduction is paramount. In that respect, I believe that there is no difference between the wishes of this Chamber and my intentions. If we want this to work, it must be done carefully. Carefulness is always above speed. In the meantime, where necessary, we will also have to adjust and not push through with blinders. The creation of the register is an important step for the quality of education and for the development of the profession as a whole. At the same time, with a quarter of a million teachers, it is a very large profession. At each stage, therefore, we will check whether the transition to the next stage is justified. That is what we are doing in the three steps I have indicated to the Chamber. The VVD, the PvdA and the CDA have asked questions about the feasibility of the timetable, for example about the provision of data by school authorities. A number of sectoral councils have expressed their concerns about this. To be honest, I do share those concerns. I think it is very important for everyone to be able to agree and prepare themselves well for the entry of the register. The guiding date was 1 August 2017, but as I indicated in the Roadmap, we monitor the preparations well. On that basis, I recently decided to take an additional year for the submission of data and for the preparation of the registration criteria by the meeting of participants, simply because we see that the time in the implementation is now getting too tight. I also want to prevent us from making a false, too hasty start. I want a good start. That is why we are taking a little more time. In response to the questions raised, I can say that the timetable, as outlined in the Roadmap, will be extended by an additional year of preparation. Then the basis for the register is in order at the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u14	Perhaps I am too early with my question, but let me be clear: that means that every stage in the letter sent to the House of Representatives will be suspended by one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u15	Yeah, that's right. Ms Sent and the spokesmen of the VVD and the CDA asked if both Chambers could be included in the monitoring of the process, for careful implementation. I think we all have the same goal in mind. Like her, I'm keen on good, responsible execution. The framework conditions must be in order when we move on to a next stage, and especially when we move on to that last stage. In that light, I think it is appropriate to inform both Chambers about this. This can be done, for example, with the General Measure of Management which regulates the re-registration procedure; with the decision teacher register and with the last entry into force decision, with which the consequences for teachers will have their effect; you may or may not be in front of the class if you receive a note and are not registered. I admit that I will introduce a legislative procedure for these decisions. I will look into what legislative proposal I will include so that we can organise this veil in good time. D66 draws attention to the role of school management in the implementation and whether they are sufficiently heard. I would like to take away the impression here that the sectoral councils have not been involved at all in the drafting of this bill, because they have been heard, but they may not have had their way in all areas. This also has to do with the fact that, in this Chamber, I can openly admit that the sectoral councils may see the register as a bit more than the final piece of their own HRM policy, as we have seen in the healthcare sector, whereas, in my view, it must be something of the professional group itself. It must be the teachers who are concerned about this, of course with good coordination and good cooperation with the employers, but on the basis of these responsibilities and powers. With the bill, we give the profession a solid position. At the same time, it is important that sector councils get more on board when it comes to implementation. I'm very attached to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u16	Actually, this is the same point as before. I do not deny that there has been good consultation with the sectoral councils, even though they do not always agree, but I am really concerned about the school boards themselves. There is a great deal of concern about the introduction, which has just been postponed for a year by the Secretary of State, but also about the ICT problems, the timetable, how do we do this, how do we do it. This is particularly true for really small schools. This is also an aspect that needs to be taken into account when it comes to these dual powers. I'm not talking about the sector councils. I'm talking about the school boards. If this bill is adopted, I believe that a strong communication campaign will really have to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u17	I fully agree with Mr Pijlman here. We all need to reach these school boards individually, each and every one of them. I say immediately that I do need those sectoral councils for that. I also feel that this is partly their responsibility. I'd like to take that up with them. Mr. Pijlman works in higher education. To mention a difference between the sectors: in higher education, you can count the number of colleges and universities. You can convene them in a room and in some cases you can make individual agreements with them, as happened with the performance agreements in higher education. In secondary education and primary education, you have to deal with 2,000 individual boards. We really need to work there with these domes, as an important channel to reach all these individual employers. Of course, a lot of work has to be done there and they can count on my support. In fact, I attach great importance to their involvement in the further implementation and I see a lot of opportunities for that. The legislative proposal includes that the profession involves the input of the school boards in the substantive proposal on the re-registration criteria. I think that's an important point. Together with the Education Cooperation, we involve the Councils in the pilots and in information and communication activities to reach all those schools, all these individual employers. I will also examine with the councils and the school boards what we can do to reduce administrative burdens as much as possible. I think that we really need these employers and these councils to work out, including in terms of technology, how we organize that smartly and conveniently. The involvement of the Councils is desirable and strongly promoted by both the Education Co-operation and OCW. Furthermore, I welcome the fact that in the coming period the Councils will sit down together with the professional group, talk about the authority in the school and ensure the establishment of a professional statute. I see that this has been achieved in the MBO sector. Despite the long-standing agreements of the National Education Agreement, this has not yet been achieved for p.o. and vo. Here too, this bill can help, because it indicates that it is a good thing that agreements are made in each school on how exactly the control of teachers is organised. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the register, ICT is of course also important. That is also an important point of D66. The ICT package is now being developed and tested. The monitoring of this was one of the reasons why last week we decided to take another year for careful implementation. We also take time to test with the user group of teachers and to make it land even better, because we can do a number of test runs with the users. The system itself is very low-threshold. I think that a lot of teachers, if they register later, will see a difference compared to today, because the new ICT system is not yet in operation. We're going to some kind of IRS model. I don't know if that's a good example, but as a private person, I always think it's fantastic that a lot is already in place when I log in with my ID. This is also the aim. Together with management and DUO, we explore how to make data delivery as easy as possible for teachers. In the end, keeping records and training activities takes little time. We estimate that at an hour a year. Senator Pijlman also asked a question about the pilots, which ran from the beginning of 2013 until mid-2016 and thus took place for the treatment in the Lower House. These pilots were carried out in the framework of the voluntary teacher register. They have indeed provided insights that have been taken into account in the development of the legislative proposal on the compulsory teacher register. For example, it has been shown that it is very important for teachers to engage in dialogue in schools and in the professions. Partly against this background, the legislative proposal includes that the profession is also in line with the broader school context when re-registration requirements are drawn up. The profession is about completing the criteria. In connection with the school context, it is obvious that the differences between sectors are being addressed. The way in which work is going to be done and can be done with that teacher register will be in the p.o. different from the vo and in the vo of the MBO. I come to talk about the relationship between individual registration and the broader context of the team and the school. The legislative proposal implements the so-called professional chain of occupation without prejudice to the existing responsibilities of the competent authority, of the employer. That is the one we also appeal to about the quality of education. The school board remains responsible for school and staff policy, for the functioning of its staff and for appointment and dismissal. The register also reflects the wider ambition within the school, such as team training and school development. I am extremely excited to see how much progress has been made by school boards and schools in recent years. The teacher looks at what he needs at an individual level in order to do his job well. The teacher works in a team. He therefore also talks with his colleagues about what the team needs in order to be able to offer good education to the students. In addition, each individual teacher has a periodic interview with his supervisor, who looks both from the development of the school and from the functioning of the individual and the team. They come together in that conversation. These discussions may also include agreements on training activities related to wider school development. That may also exist alongside the register. This leads to a set of training activities by the different teachers, who register each in their own portfolio. Because teachers through the register are better informed about their own professional development, in my view it is a strengthening effect for the school. What the register adds is that the professional quality of the teacher is enhanced not only through the traditional relationship of employer and employee but also through his own professional group. This means that we leave the substantive requirements of the register to the profession. I say in the direction of Mr Pijlman that this could be about, for example, informal learning. I say in the direction of Mrs Sent that it could also be about something like team learning. Research has shown that many teachers value these informal forms of learning and that this can also be effective. I call forms as peer review and intervision. It is therefore obvious that the profession offers scope for this in the proposal. I just don't think we should prescribe that as politics right now. This bill is based on confidence in the profession. If teachers themselves consider this important, it is also up to the profession itself to ensure that these forms of learning can also be included in the validated offer that teachers can choose from. In the near future, the profession will work out this substantive proposal. In the review of the law, probably in 2022, we can see whether and, if so, in what way the professional group has also given these forms of learning informal learning and team learning a place in that register. I believe that this is an explicit commitment towards Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u18	In the wording of the Secretary of State, I would only like to turn "can" into "will."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u19	You're very precise, but I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u20	Do I understand that the Secretary of State will therefore take with him whether a "one man, one vote" system is actually in place? In relation to this commitment and the moment of evaluation, we had asked for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u21	Yeah, that's more about governance. I see that as something other than forms of learning or development. This is much more about how governance is prescribed. But also "one man, one vote" was a very important element of the bill for me personally. I will make a few comments later on on how this will be done in practice. That's what we're definitely taking into account. Mr Bruijn asked about the team grant in primary education. There's gonna be one. The team grant scheme is in preparation and will be published by May at the latest. This means that in addition to the traditional teacher grant, it can also be picked up more on a team basis. That's formal learning. Then it's about master courses. Finally, several political groups have asked questions about the relationship with collective agreements and the consequences of labour law. The sectoral councils indicate in the letter to the Court that there is a restrictive list of dismissal grounds and that re-registration is not on this list. That's right. The list in Article 7:699, paragraph 3, Civil Code, is made up of "if I count them as quickly as I do now, eight grounds. Actually, it doesn't say "non-registration." It does say "disfunction." If we now have to deal with someone who is no longer registered, because that person has not done further training, the question will be put to us on a case-by-case basis. That is why it is so difficult to give a generic answer. That is precisely why we did not say in this bill that non-registration should automatically lead to dismissal. After all, the question is very much to what extent the individual teacher is to blame. Maybe he didn't get enough room from his employer to meet that. On the other hand, if this is something that has been discussed over and over again in conversations and there has been negligence on the part of the teacher or the employee, then, especially if that person concerned is not prepared to register by following different training courses, a situation can arise that the employer says: it can no longer be done; we have built up a file that shows that despite several discussions we are not getting any further. Then that could be a reason for dismissal. Similarly, the canton judge will judge that from case to case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u22	In the meantime, this teacher can't be fired. He doesn't have any teaching authority, so he can't stand in front of the classroom. The Secretary of State says in the written reply that there is only one job to be done for that teacher. But in the meantime, that person is on the payroll. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I'm gonna see some trouble around here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u23	In the end, however, the question is how often this will occur. I did like the fact that Mr Bruijn spoke about care in this connection. How often are doctors and nurses removed because they have not met the requirements? It is precisely because there are clear demands and because no one really wants to end up in such a situation that this is only a small matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u24	If the Secretary of State can guarantee this right away with figures, that would be very nice. In my view, we do not legislate on the basis of 'I do not think it will happen so often'. I ask the Secretary of State: what will you do if this happens and how will it be financed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u25	When it occurs, it is also up to the teacher and his employer to ensure that he gets his registration back in order as soon as possible, so that he can be in front of the class again. In the meantime, if that does not lead to a labour dispute and someone is simply still employed, that person will have to be paid back. However, I believe that this will be very rare in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u26	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u27	Who's gonna cover the cost of paying?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u28	In the end, that's the employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u29	In the written exchange of views, the Secretary of State stated precisely that it should be a quality instrument rather than a settlement instrument. But now that he starts on this subject, we'll dive right into dysfunction. In fact, the question remains as to how a competent authority should deal with perhaps several teachers who may be in trouble for reasons which we have just exchanged. We focus on a very strong and rigid system in which teachers should be competent in all fields of teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u30	I hope that this situation will be kept to a minimum. Let us not immediately assume the worst and great numbers. At the same time, Mr Schalk is right to ask me: but what if it does? I believe that we, as legislators, have a responsibility to see how things are going in these individual cases. This will vary from one case to another. Is there, for example, negligence on the part of the worker, who has perhaps deliberately thrown the hat on it and who has not done what was asked of him by his employer, or perhaps also by the profession? A judge will decide that there is a dysfunction and that such a person is eligible for dismissal. There may also be very different reasons why someone has not been able to meet their registration standards. Perhaps it is in the interests of the employer that such a person should be given the opportunity to pick it up as soon as possible and to catch up. This is clearly something that we see a lot in the healthcare sector and which I also think will happen in practice in those few cases where this is to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u31	Could it also be that how you get into this is very dependent on how it is validated? I can very well imagine the situation that someone cannot get a re-registration, does absolutely good work in the school and is therefore certainly not dysfunctional. Suppose someone says: I don't want to participate in those validated courses, but I'll make sure I'm a good teacher. I'm an economics teacher and I read the economic-statistical messages every week. Doesn't that mostly depend on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u32	With this bill, we introduce a system in which the profession makes demands on professionals. If the profession itself says that it is important for everyone to work on their continuing training and a teacher does not do so, this will ultimately lead to the loss of their registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u33	That is the same discussion we had with Mr Bruijn earlier. What is now considered to be validated continuing training? Can we assume that informal forms of continuing training also do self-training and arrange things for yourself so that you stay with them? If that's the case, there's little risk. If that is not the case, there is a lot of risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u34	The formal answer is: that is what the profession itself is about. It is the teachers themselves who decide which development offer and which study offer are ultimately eligible to count. I assume that teachers for their own profession do not set the bar so high that colleagues cannot get over it. In my view, this will lead to a reasonable discussion among reasonable people, among professionals, about what can reasonably be expected of teachers in front of the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u35	It is, of course, fine that we are talking here about scenarios which are very unlikely, but which you must get along with each other. I think it is also right that it should be stated once again that the profession can validate any type of continuing training, any activity which contributes to it. It is therefore up to the profession to decide for itself. In practice, we see in all existing registers that this leads to a rapid re-entry if someone, for example through illness, is temporarily lagging behind. Nevertheless, it can happen. It is good that this is brought forward. Have I previously understood correctly from the Secretary of State that he will include this aspect and any case law in the evaluation? In any case, that is reassuring for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u36	We certainly do. We will do so before we enter the second phase. There is first a re-registration, although a note is made, the consequence of which is that someone is no longer allowed to stand in front of the classroom. That won't be taken until four years later. In the meantime, the evaluation to which Mr Bruijn refers is being carried out. For his part, there are some concerns. This careful process, with a formal evaluation, offers the opportunity to see if his feeling was right. If that is not the case, we have another point of discussion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u37	Following the previous question, registration could only start in 2022. Does that mean an initial evaluation in 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u38	That's been moved over a year to 2023. This is because we take an extra year for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u39	In other words, the first evaluation is expected by the Secretary of State after 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u40	I expect this to be about the same. I already indicated how it will go with the restrictive reasons listed in the law. In addition, in collective agreements, the social partners may, if they so wish, colour the exhaustive list of dismissal grounds from the WFD, for example by stating that if discussions show that the teacher is not working on re-registration, this can be considered to be dysfunctional. On the other hand, agreements can also be made on employers' duty of care. They must, however, enable their people to participate in training courses to meet the requirements for re-registration. This should, in a manner of speaking, be explicitly discussed annually in the conversation cycle, so that it does not come as a surprise after three or four years. It must be a structural topic of conversation in the annual call cycle. I'd like to move on to the registry portal. There is sometimes an unjustified caricature around the register front portal. This gives an idea that qualified teachers will no longer be allowed to be in the classroom because they have failed to meet the training requirements, and unauthorized teachers will. On this point, the Labour Party, the SP and the PVV have asked some questions. It has also been asked whether this is not disproportionate. I should just like to return to the objective to which I referred in my introduction. This bill should contribute to ensuring that every student receives the best possible education. This requires each teacher to work on his or her professional quality. There are two possibilities for this: you as a qualified teacher keep track of your course according to the requirements of your professional group or you have chosen a job as a teacher, you are eligible but not yet competent and you are working as quickly as possible to obtain that competence. Again, I attach this power to me. That's a proper requirement. We know how much that matters for the quality of the lessons students receive. Let me be clear, my starting point is that all lessons must be given competently. That's the known 100% we've been working on for so long. I am also pleased that the issue of 'unauthorized teaching' is now very high on the agenda, including in the case of employers and industry councils, and that we have also taken a number of measures, which are separate from this, to reduce the unauthorized teaching, and that this also has an effect. We can see that the number of unauthorized lessons has continued to decline in recent years. We're not here yet, but this could definitely help. At the same time, we must also note that education is changing: appropriate education, the new profiling subjects in VMBO and even new subjects at all. It is therefore specific to education that there will always be issues of competence. This is not new; education is developing over and over again. In my letter to the House of Representatives on powers in secondary education, I indicated that, together with the field of education, there will be a future exploration of the system of competences. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today does not change around those rules of competence, but is in line with it. But at the moment the law also offers scope to make a number of exceptions to this, I say in response to D66's question. It is also possible with the present legislative proposal to appoint unregistered teachers, for example, in order to prevent subjects from falling out. This is a legal exception or to make it attractive for people from the business community to choose a job as a teacher. This is very important, especially for practical subjects and especially when we are dealing with a greater shortage of teachers. Then we need these people very much. Following this last category, which is certainly also important for the MBO, the Labour Party asks about the state of play of the Bruins motion (34458, No. 15).................................................................................................................................................................................. Here's what I can say. Zijinstromers are certainly also important for the MBO, because they take specific experiences in the actuality of a company or an industry to the training courses. Therefore, the legislative proposal does not touch on the possibility for the appointment of side-intromers, professionals, practitioners and experience experts. Competent side-intromers can, of course, register directly in the teacher register. They are still in training for their certificate and are entered in the register portal on the basis of this bill. Since the criteria of the profession relate only to the register and not to the register front portal, these criteria do not change the use of side-intromers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u41	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that all the conditions under which unauthorized people can work in education, for example lack of teachers, illness, etc., remain valid? Is he saying that these unauthorised persons will be registered in the register portal and that they will have to be trained as soon as possible, but that these conditions will remain valid? If that is the case, how is the objective of bringing down the number of unauthorized persons served by this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u42	This gives us a much better view of the teachers who are not yet competent and the route they are going through according to competence. At the moment, we have absolutely no idea. It's a good thing I'm gonna give you what happens next. This has also been the subject of a wide-ranging discussion in the House of Representatives. There is even an amendment to this point by Mr Rog and Mr Grashoff (34458, No. 24) adopted. A person who is not yet competent and who is in training can, in a manner of speaking, work somewhere for two years. Then he can go to another school and work there for two years. Then he can work somewhere for another two years. All this time, despite the fact that the law describes a tight deadline, he can stand unauthorized in front of the classroom. The portal makes that much more insightful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u43	Can we not come up with something less radical for the professional sector to map this out? I understand that the problem is not being solved, because under the same rules it is still allowed, even if there is a portal. We are getting a better view of it, but the people who do have the right of appeal at the moment are at risk of losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u44	The latter is really not the case. If you are simply authorized, you will enter the normal register, unless you completely disagree with it. I think it is the most normal thing in the world to ask teachers to work on their own continuing training. If that is not the case, there may be consequences. That is the essence of this bill. The great thing about this bill is that it becomes clearer for the teacher who is not yet able to enter the register because he or she is not yet competent. If you want to go for the teacher's profession, you are expected to get your diploma and become competent in the foreseeable future. If at the end of that legal period you are talking about two years, and I believe that it can also be extended for two years if you do not have that piece of paper, then it will be over. There's actually two flavors. You're going into that portal and you're going into the teacher register because you've obtained your authority. If that's not the case, it'll end sometime. Now we see that there is often hope from one school to another and that sometimes schools also extend the time limit laid down in the law, time and time again, which means that the situation of the class is still unauthorized. But this puts a cap on that situation and brings it more in line with what the law requires of employers and employees. The ability to teach without proper authority is and remains limited. If someone doesn't get his authority in time, he can no longer teach. Because of the register portal and the amendment of the CDA and GroenLinks to which I just referred, there is also a stop to unauthorized teaching. The result of the sum of the register and the portal is that all teachers are visible and that all teachers are encouraged to make serious work of their development. A number of questions have been asked about control. Today we are talking about strengthening the quality of a large but currently very fragmented profession. That is why I am pleased that I have been able to work closely with a number of large teachers' organisations in this process through the Education Co-operation. OSF specifically asked about the supporters of the Education Co-operation. They are all the large member organisations, not only the large trade unions but also the professional organisations that teachers are members of. Better Education The Netherlands is also part of this. When we talked to the Education Co-operative about the teacher register, Beter Onderwijs Nederland was still part of that club. They are all member organisations with their own supporters, who often work through democratic principles. We didn't just sit around the table with the directors of these big organizations. These organisations have also continued to go back to their own supporters to present the steps they have taken and the decisions they have taken to the grassroots. The follow-up to this process is the organisation of the meeting of participants. I'll get back to that in a minute. In order to enable the direct control of all teachers, including those who are not members of a trade union, the Education Cooperation has amended the statutes. In order to be able to take substantial steps in the strengthening of the profession, two things are important: teachers must be able to express their views directly on those elements which determine the quality of their professional practice and teachers must experience and use the professional space necessary to do their work as well as possible. As early as 1993, the Van Es Committee concluded that the development of own quality assurance by the profession would bring education to a higher level. 25 years later, unfortunately, we have to note that this so-called professional governance does not come as a matter of course. There are many good initiatives and forerunners, but more is needed to set up a national quality system. In order to give a voice to the profession as a whole, the meeting of participants was set up. This meeting offers teachers a stage to determine a number of things with each other. It is possible to determine which standards a teacher must meet in order to be well trained in the classroom. It is also possible to determine how the professional space can be implemented in a strong way and what professional ethical principles are at the basis of professional practice as a teacher. The principle of direct control is crucial. Mr Bruijn also just asked about this, but similar questions were also asked by D66 and OSF. The starting point is "one man, one vote." That's what he's based on in this bill. I am very hard on this because who knows better than the teacher himself what this profession requires of someone and what it means to bring a diverse group of students from different backgrounds, levels, talents and needs into their development every day? If we find that the teacher is the determining factor in the quality of education, then we must also place responsibility for the quality of the profession on that teacher. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Gerkens. She asked: what do you think of this offer and that offer? I may have a personal opinion on this, but I think that we can also ask the professionals themselves to make their own judgement on it. If they say that something isn't good enough or that a course doesn't make any sense, it won't be included in the offer. On the other hand, if they say, as joint professionals, that they find a good way of learning or that they see something as a good way of working on one's own skill, who are we, as a politician, to say that this would be a wrong judgment? In fact, that is the essence of this bill: that we gain more confidence in the profession and that we also give that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u45	Mr Secretary of State, may I ask you how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u46	I've got a few pages left, I'm going to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u47	Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u48	I think we can do that. D66 asked about the operation of the meeting of participants. This meeting consists of all registered teachers, basically 250,000 teachers. In order to implement the decision-making process, the meeting of participants shall select a delegation from among its members. That comes to 24 Members with a proportional distribution across the sectors. During the decision-making process, the 24 delegates always consult the meeting of participants. You can see in a lot of associations that a board or delegation is being put forward from among them to make the day-to-day decisions. With the legislative proposal, we are promoting the development of a strong, self-conscious profession. This makes an important contribution to the image of teachership and the quality of education. I myself was very impressed by the way Jelmer Evers, one of the leading teachers in the Netherlands, describes it. He states that the register stimulates the professionalism of teachers and sends a clear message to teachers in training that they have a broader responsibility as part of the profession. He writes: it's not only about learning to become a better teacher, but also that we are going to see ourselves, as he says to his profession teachers, as guardians of quality education, that is at the service of all children, and that we're not just talking about my own school anymore, but about our education. That's the beauty of it: this instrument makes it possible not only to see how I do it myself for the classroom, or how I do it with my colleagues as a team in a school, but also how I do it with all my colleagues; what does it look like as a professional group? Finally. The development of the register is not on its own. I would stress that this development is part of a much broader package of measures. Take the teacher agenda and all the actions and measures we take in it to raise teacher training levels, better guide young teachers and reduce competences. I would also like to mention the additional investments made by this cabinet, which, with the help of the C3, signed the autumn agreement at the time, which freed money to give schools more space, time and money to invest in continuing training and professionalisation. Finally, the measures we are taking for the labour market and reducing the shortage of teachers. In relation to the wider context of the register, GroenLinks and the Labour Party asked about the latter, the plan of approach teacher shortage, in particular. The shortage of teachers is an issue that has no simple solution. It calls for cooperation between government and schools, but above all with social partners, teacher training and local employers. That is why I went into discussions with partners to come up with a supported plan of action. Roughly you have a number of buttons on which you can turn. Anyone can make that up. How do you increase the influx of teacher training? That is still quite a challenge, because it decreased a bit because we had raised the demands. I don't think we should let that go. In fact, I think that, in the long term, the increased requirements will make it more attractive to train. Another button you can turn on is the unexploited potential. We see both teachers who are still unemployed in this tight market and many teachers who work part-time. There is a lot of untapped potential there to reduce the shortage of teachers. The teacher shortage in the p.o. is different than in the v.o. In the v.o. the deficit relates to specific subjects, in the p.o. It is more generic, but very strong regionally determined. In the big cities, for example, it is much more important than in the rural area. There, schools have to do with shrinkage, which has to do with the deficit. I give some of the directions of thought that we are working on, but in order for that to land properly, we need to make a pact with those who ultimately have to do it: the social partners and relevant organisations in the region. As I pointed out when the motion was adopted in the Chamber at the time, I found the journey of time very ambitious. I said I would do my best to have it in the Chamber before 15 February. That's not gonna work. I think it will be possible in the very near future, before the end of the month. I said a few things about the lack of teachers. Mr Pijlman raised the question of class size. He asked what was going on with that. That too is a subject that requires a very own approach. Although we can see that it has been fairly stable on average over recent years, it can vary enormously from class to class and from school to school. Mr. Pijlman mentioned a class with 33 students, not to mention in the Schilderswijk. Now I know the Schilderswijk pretty well. There are many schools that receive additional resources, which means that they are often able to form smaller classes. The backwardness policy is also something that we are critically examining, and we are looking at whether we can indicate even more specifically where the backlogs are. We must not let one go and believe that this is a panacea for all the problems in education. At the same time, I think it can make an important contribution. Maybe it comes down to one crucial question. That is also a part of which I fundamentally disagreed with the Council of State, apart from the fact that it did not, in my view, take sufficient account of all the important things that are happening in the area of the teacher agenda and which have already been set in motion. The question is whether a teacher's register is something you can only introduce when you have solved all the problems in education, or if you say so, at least I read the report of the Rinnooy-Commission, that there are a lot of problems in education and that a register can be a tool to contribute to a firmer, less fragmented professional group. This in turn leads to a stronger focus on professionalism, stronger professional pride and a stronger appeal of the profession. I myself belong to that last school and I hope for support for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u49	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. Mrs Gerkens has asked for a brief moment to be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u50	We are ready for the second term of office and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs De Vries-Legge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u51	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. We had asked a number of clear questions, also to make sure that our perception of reality was the good experience of reality. Sometimes you can think you're right, but that doesn't mean you're right. The massive resistance we experienced was such that we were wondering whether we might have read it wrong. The answer given by the Secretary of State to our first questions was clear: yes, yes, yes. That reassures us to a large extent. Like the PvdA and others who have said this, we will be monitoring closely whether the intention is indeed what is going to happen in the future. It should not be what teachers fear, namely something that we impose on teachers when they are created and introduced. In that sense, we will keep our finger on the wrist. Then there is the piece that you absolutely do not want, namely that at some point you have to draw labour law consequences to the fact that someone is not able to re-register. The article indicated by the Secretary of State is such that I think it could be him, but I must say quite frankly that I hope that the Secretary of State never has to find out. Time will have to learn. If you're reading that article, I've got that piece of the Civil Code in front of me right here, and I don't think that's something I'm going to call an inaccessible road in advance. I was standing here once when we were talking about the Youth Act. Then it was said here: it takes a village to raise a child. In that village we were talking about, the teacher plays a very important role. If it weren't for a high school teacher, I'd never be here. For those children, the tactical ability and everything else he does is at least as important as he has kept up with his profession. Nevertheless, I believe, and my group with me, that every child deserves to have a teacher who is so full of knowledge that he can get the best out of every child. If the teacher register really comes from the bottom and if that registration is done in a careful way, there is only one possibility for me, namely that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u52	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his comprehensive and thorough answer, which has answered my questions on a number of points. We agree in this Chamber, and I also think widely in society, that a teacher register is in principle a good thing. At first, however, I also said that for us the working conditions under which that teacher must do his work were essential and much more important than the register. Are there also good and validated training courses? Are the teachers up to it? Is it their registry? I must say that the Secretary of State has removed my doubts on that point. Has an attempt been made by the Cabinet to bring back the number of unauthorized teachers now in front of the classroom? I don't think so. The Secretary of State says here that the number of unauthorized lessons is slowly falling, but I think that is because of the economy and I predict that, if the economy attracts, the number of unauthorized lessons will increase again. Then the register. My doubts about the execution have not been removed. Frankly, my doubts on this point have been reinforced by the Secretary of State's statement that, after this law has been passed, he is going to postpone it for a year. In essence, he himself says that the preparation of this proposal has not been such and that the proceeds of the pilot could not be processed in such a way that it is now the right time to introduce it. I ended my first term with the question of whether this law is actually ripe for treatment. Frankly, the commitment made by the Secretary of State, more or less between the nose and the lips, has only increased my doubt. This also applies to the two further AMvBs that Mrs Sent has talked about and which I am actually pleased with, because they strengthen the whole process. At the same time, this indicates that a great deal still needs to be done. If the Secretary of State is talking about the sectoral councils, we talked about it in the event of interruption, then I am talking about the school boards. Those school boards, especially those of small schools, have a lot of concerns. About ICT, for example. The Secretary of State says that it will all be very simple. He referred to the IRS. Well, to be honest, I do need a tax advisor, even though I always like the fact that a lot has already been filled in. The schools are not convinced that this system is already working. Nor are they convinced that the administrative burden will be so low for them. And there is no professional status, to name but a few. In my first term, I asked for informal learning to become more central. The Secretary of State has said that it is up to the target group itself to include that. I appreciate that. I see those intentions with the Secretary of State. I would ask him to zoom in on this in the evaluation, because informal learning is often much more important for quality teachers than formalised learning. The Secretary of State referred to the various agreements concluded with three opposition parties, which resulted in extra money going to the schools, but he did not address the question of whether teachers, in his opinion, have enough time, in addition to all the pressure of the working week, to participate in this in a decent and sensible way. Finally, the legal position, an issue that will only be played for the first time in 2026. I do not want to push this point too much, but I do. The Secretary of State refers to the Civil Code and says: If a teacher, after all we've done, is still unauthorized, then resignation is at issue. This is then arranged between the employer and the employee. He therefore refers to dysfunction. It doesn't have to be. You can teach fine without having the proper authority. I liked Mr Schalk's example of a teacher who might have a PhD in physics and who teaches science for ten hours in a smaller school. That's exactly what he does. We all know that, and it is very responsible. Except he's not willing to go back to training for that. You want the school to fire him before 10:00? And are we in a legal situation? That's gonna happen. It's not my main point, but I'm gonna call attention to it. I think that we should not leave this issue to the courts in due course. Frankly, I would have expected the Secretary of State to have dealt with that lack of competence much earlier. In short, we do not think that the legislative proposal is ready to be adopted by this Chamber at the moment. We are grateful to the Secretary of State for a number of commitments, including the commitment to the PvdA on the AMvBs and the way in which the Chamber will be involved, but there are too many hooks and eyes in the implementation that have not been resolved to say yes to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u53	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has made it clear that the profession is the move. The essence of this law is that the teachers themselves are about it. I welcome the response to this point and that this has been confirmed. The meeting of participants will work on the basis of one man, one vote. I would like to take this as an undertaking. The government opts for a careful and phased introduction. I welcome the commitment to explore the higher education register. In fact, the power is much less clearly defined there. One could say: the authority is demonstrated by the fact that someone is accepted in that profession and is given that mandate. You could also say: we are working with the BKO, the SKO, the BKE and the SKE towards an initial definition of competence. Maybe you should base such a maintenance of skills on that. In any case, I welcome the commitment of the reconnaissance that will be made by the forthcoming cabinet, if I understand correctly. On the feasibility timeline for data delivery: I think the year is a good one for the Secretary of State. As Mr Pijlman said, I do not blame this on insufficient preparation. I had the impression that the thorough treatment here, which is also due to critical teachers in the country who are happy and who are also here, has led to a somewhat longer journey. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on this, but I myself thought that this is mainly the reason why a somewhat more time-consuming phase of implementation is being chosen. That is a good thing. I do not consider that to be evidence that the Secretary of State himself does not believe in the register. I didn't have that impression of the whole debate anyway. I am also grateful for the commitment that both Chambers will be included in the monitoring and that the Secretary of State will inform both Chambers about the AMvBs and the pending procedure. I come to the variation in the activities that can all contribute to the profession. It is therefore not just a question of training but of a variety of activities. It can also be peer-to-peer review, informal learning, reading or publishing. I think we all think this variation is important; it has been put forward several times. I am counting on it to be validated by the profession, but that is up to the profession itself. In any case, it will be taken into account in the evaluation. I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. The same goes for the commitment to a team grant. I come on the course of teachers who don't meet. Yes, it does get complicated if it would lead to a conflict situation. In practice, with all the registers that are now available, we see the following. If, due to circumstances, a person cannot fully meet the minimum set of requirements, qualitatively and quantitatively, which the profession itself considers necessary in order to remain competent, then a re-entry path, a retraining path, will take place. When it comes to a teacher who is already doing very well, who was called a teacher just as an example, then that trajectory will be very short. That's what we're seeing in other pathways now. We see that so far it has never led to dismissal or to a labour dispute. There are two possibilities. Or the teacher himself regrets that he is behind, and then he will be happy to cooperate to reinsert and would like to follow a tailor-made reentry journey. Or the teacher doesn't regret that he's lagging behind, and then you talk very quickly about a situation where the judge might consider the teacher's attitude as a grounds for dismissal. I'm not gonna go there because I'm not a lawyer, but I'm confident it's gonna be okay. Again, these whole firing procedures, I don't see them coming. At least I'm glad they're being included in the evaluation. As far as the portal is concerned, all teachers are becoming visible and encouraged in their development, as I understand it from the Secretary of State. I think that's what the portal is meant to be. So it makes it clear who teaches unauthorizedly. What you then do with it is actually a different subject. It is also important that the D66 has repeatedly pointed out that the register is part of a wider agenda. The transcendental goal of everyone who sits here is better education. That connects us. That was also very clear in this debate. The Netherlands is actually very much ahead of us when it comes to professionalisation. That's why we're struggling with that. In healthcare, the Netherlands is the only country where you are sure that all doctors and nurses in a hospital keep up with their profession. That's unique. No patient has protested that yet. I don't expect any protests from students either. At the end of this long process, I would like to congratulate all those involved on behalf of my group. First of all, to the teachers, especially to the most critical teachers. They have seen that their input has been dominant in this debate. Their involvement and critical attitude have made it possible for us to test where this is possible now. We thank them for that. We hope they stay involved. The same applies, of course, to the unions, the sectoral councils, the government, the ministry and finally the educational cooperative. I would have liked us as healthcare professionals to have had such an organisation at the time, because it would not have taken 30 years to introduce it. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed and clear answers to our questions. For my group, these questions start from the perspective of children, who have the right to develop and the duty of society to organise this with teachers who are not only competent but also permanently competent. The present legislative proposal could fit into this, provided that a number of conditions are met and a number of concerns have been addressed. I'd be happy to walk past them in second term together with the Secretary of State's replies. In my group's view, acceptance is essential for the successful implementation of the teacher register. We have therefore asked the Secretary of State to work for this and to inform us about it. May I assume that the Secretary of State will inform us about this in the evaluation of the law he spoke of? In order to clarify the situation, my group has called for increased support from the AMvB on re-registration criteria and validation rules. We would like to sign up to the Secretary of State's commitment to include in the law a suspension procedure for the second AMvB, the decision to register teachers. Can we assume that he will take the opportunity to inform us about the state of play regarding the framework conditions as mentioned in his letter of 27 September 2016? In our first term, we have drawn attention to the importance of team learning. We also support D66's call for informal learning. It has never been our intention to express a lack of confidence in the profession. However, it has been our intention to draw attention to a potential tension between individual interests and group interests. We look forward to the committed attention to team learning and informal learning in the review of the law. The PvdA has drawn attention to the feasibility and called for an adjustment of the phased introduction of the register. We support the suspension of the three phases of the letter of 27 September 2016 from the Secretary of State with one year each. This will help to ensure that the implementation of the legislative proposal can be carried out carefully and responsibly. A further question concerns the scope available to the social partners to give effect to labour law as a consequence of non-reregistration. I asked for a legal test in the first term, but I have not heard from the Secretary of State. I would like to ask him to share it with us on paper before the start of the second period for re-registration, in which legal consequences are linked to non-re-registration. The shortage of teachers requires specific attention. We are very much looking forward to the plan of action to combat this deficit. Unfortunately, this does not come on Mr Ganzevoort's father's birthday, but we are expressing the hope and expectation of this before the end of this month. The PvdA considers that the rules on the teacher register should be designed in such a way as not to create obstacles to the recruitment of side-intromers, practitioners and experience experts and professionals, particularly in the MBO. The Secretary of State has, to our satisfaction, confirmed that these obstacles do not arise because of the existence of the register portal. In his roadmap, the State Secretary has clearly set out the conditions to be met when the last stage of the register enters into force. Following this, my group has asked the Secretary of State for a stronger support for the Royal Decree which will enter into force in the final phase. I may have missed it, because the Secretary of State speaks faster than I write, but I do not think I have heard the Secretary of State about it, whereas for my group it is essential for a careful and responsible introduction. Will the Secretary of State be able to clarify this? I'm rounding up. My group is in favour of a teacher register which improves the professionalism and appreciation of teachers. However, we are not prepared to give a carte blanche. That is why we have asked for parliamentary influence on some of the steps that are being taken as part of the corresponding roadmap. We are grateful to the Secretary of State for his commitments so far on this point. We would like to hear about the issue of the entry into force decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I too would like to hear a response to Mrs Sent's question. Despite the commitments on the AMvB, the veil and the delay that comes here, we are still left with a legislative proposal with far-reaching labour law consequences, without the legislator being able to set any framework for these consequences. That's not all. The legislator does not bear the consequences, such as the costs for teachers who are temporarily out of authority. I have doubts about the appeal to dysfunction, because I think the teacher is working fine. Anyway, the judge's gonna have to fight what's left of it. I must say that I find it unpleasant that we leave teachers hanging over the market as to what their employment law position will be like in the future and that we leave it to the courts. In addition, it remains that the register is used as a driver, whereas it should have been the crown of what this cabinet should have done. One of the aims of this law is therefore to reduce the number of unauthorized persons. So that is not actually happening, I understand from the Secretary of State. I think it is a step forward that it is now becoming clear who is teaching unauthorized, but the question remains whether we should have this teacher's register for that very purpose or whether we should have been able to arrange it in a different way. The whole of the profession is now being put at a disadvantage, let us be honest: the effects of years of dramatic policy on this educational dossier. Finally, I come to the content of the register. I doubt that we should determine that here, although I also think the following. I hear Mr Bruijn say 'we all find this' and 'we all think that', but it might have been helpful if we had just set legal frameworks. I have great difficulty with how this is going to take shape now, especially since commercial interests could also play a role here. That's still a tricky point. The Secretary of State says that the profession decides, but it should be the teacher, along with his section and supervisor. Let me give you an example of a teacher in special education who is currently adjusting to the level of havo in mathematics in her spare time, because the mathematics teacher in special education is retiring, and that is what is happening and so there is a gap. This is a very small group in education that should specialise in this way. That is much needed, but I doubt, given the discussion we are having, whether this will eventually lead to registry points. So that shows a little bit of how this is wringing around here. That makes this bill a decision from above with a lot of uncertainties. This gives rise to unrest again. That's the last thing that scares me the most. Rest is precisely what education needs most. It is a credit to the Secretary of State that he has so much optimism about the future and the drafting of this bill, but optimism also requires realism. In my view, there are still far too many uncertainties and the Secretary of State asks us to trust him on his beautiful blue eyes. That is not enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply, which expresses a great deal of confidence. Of course, we agree on many principles. A register for the definition of the profession would be a good thing. The rules and recognition of continuing training must be in the hands of the teachers themselves. That's all good, but whether it actually comes into the hands of the teachers in practice or whether a group of central regulators will determine what happens and minimize the influence of the members' council.It depends on how you deal with it, and I'm not 100% sure in advance. It is a good thing, however, that the Secretary of State takes an extra year. This could help the support base. It is also a good thing that, at Mrs Sent's request, the Chambers are involved in the monitoring and that the two coming AMvBs are placed before the Chambers, although I also have the following feeling. You can tell them, but it remains the question whether that means that there will really be an intensive assessment from the Chambers. The obvious problem remains with the unregistered teachers. What happens to that? The way in which continuing training is handled is very important. We just found out. If informal continuing training is easily approved, the problem will not arise very much. Nevertheless, I can imagine that someone is no longer registered and functioning perfectly. Then the school will have a very big problem if we do not get a proper solution in advance, as Mrs Sent has also asked. The next problem is not that, although it may be a bit mixed up, is the problem of unauthorized lessons. The Secretary of State says that all lessons should actually be given. Of course, I agree with that in theory. That sounds wonderful and should normally be the intention, but if you know how the funding of the schools works and that combines with the existing employment contracts, the conclusion is that it is impossible in practice not to use unauthorized lessons from your own teachers. Unauthorized outsiders, people who wait too long to get their authority, are another matter. However, unauthorized teaching by a further qualified teacher is inevitable. Indeed, the Secretary of State says, this is not a panacea for all the major problems that exist: classes, hours of classes. Of course, they stay down. As far as the legislative proposal is concerned, the main problem remains for me to support it. The Secretary of State says that he has consulted with organizations and that they represent a lot of people. That is true, but when I look around in practice with teachers and administrators, I notice that the basis is far from there. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u57	Mr. Chairman. I too, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I found it interesting that tonight he almost pressed Mr Rinnooy Kan's report against his chest. Unmistakably, Mr Rinnooy Kan has hinted at a registration system, but I have reasonable doubts as to whether he meant the teacher register as it was at the time. We will not find that out in this debate, I think, but I will make it clear. In the written reply, the Secretary of State has indicated, and he has just confirmed, that the teacher register is intended as a quality instrument used by the profession itself, and that it cannot or should not become a payment instrument. But part of the debate has been about that. That is because, no matter how you turn it or turn it around, tonight the labour law is still a bit in the air, although it is very far-reaching for all actors, both for teachers and for competent authorities. We do not do justice to them by saying that it will be easy and that a labour law problem may not occur very often. If that is the case and it results in dysfunction, and that is because of unwillingness, by training or whatever, then my group and the Christian Union group do not object to this becoming widely clear. However, the Secretary of State has also indicated quite empatheticly that people can sometimes find themselves in situations that prevent them from fulfilling their responsibilities. The openness that is given to this because parents and children can be part of it, I still think is a point worth thinking about. This has to do with authority and the structure of authority. I am not going to start a discussion with Mr Ganzevoort about where authority comes from. He knows that I think we are being held with authority and that we must ensure that this authority can be carried out as widely as possible. There has been a postponement of each step by one year and that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u58	Someone who says he doesn't provoke a debate with me on this... I think it's important. I do think that those different sides are on it too. I'm taking a little trip, but it has to do with it directly from the tradition that Mr Schalk knows well, namely the calling. The vocation distinguishes between the external and the internal vocation. It can be done in Latin, but it doesn't matter now. The internal vocation is never sufficient if there is not also an external vocation that is a validation of that authority. That's what we're talking about when we talk about the question of jurisdiction. Whether people can do it is one thing. That you're being held by authority, that's fine. But that power is precisely that whatever we regulate in the organization, in the structure to shape the authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u59	I couldn't agree more. I think we also agree that, no matter how much you would be endowed with authority, you will have to earn that authority continuously, calling or no calling. I shall return to the postponement of each step by one year. This means that it will be 2023 before there will be an evaluation, that it will be 2027 before there may be any labour law consequences. Then we are ten years further by the way, and we are very close to those 30 years of Mr Bruijn. My final point is that there can be no doubt that my party stands for the merits. It's about identity and quality in education as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u60	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. The debate has produced a lot in the sense that the important questions have been raised and some of them have been addressed. For some to be satisfied, but of course not for everyone. Does this proposal now solve all the problems we have in education? No, definitely not. Some of the major issues relating to quality and security cannot be resolved by this proposal either. Hence the questions about the plan of approach teacher shortage. Thank you for the information that this is coming this month. It would be a shame if we saw that go down in the missionary slump. We don't want any of that. It is on this basis that the major steps will have to be taken. Major steps will also have to be taken in the preparation. Questions and concerns have been raised in this regard. We would like to inform the Secretary of State that we will not only follow the outcome with argus eyes, but also that the success of this whole route stands or falls with the extent to which he or his successor succeeds in getting the professional group along. I have already said that this proposal points in the right direction in terms of its structure. Any thought that you can draw up a review of courses and offers and their validation and criteria outside the profession would be a guarantee of failure. There are still hesitations in the profession as to whether it is sufficiently secure, whether they can be sufficiently involved and whether the structures created, for example through the meeting of participants, are going to help enough to really define the criteria. Who's gonna get in there, how that's gonna go and so on? You could be worried about that. I do not want to be too pessimistic about it, but we know that this kind of process can very easily go down again with bureaucracy and so on. So it will depend on the government's commitment and helmsmanship in that respect whether it actually works. But the proposal, and in the end that is what we have to decide here today, is pointing in the right direction. We explain to the profession itself what it should look like, but at the same time make it very clear that we want teachers who are competent and competent, who remain competent, and who lose their competence when that ability can no longer be demonstrated. In my view, that is the simple essence of this bill and we can only endorse it. If it is dealt with with with a certain wisdom and, if necessary, with some coulance, I have heard from the Secretary of State that he agrees with this proposal, there is little reason not to accept it. That does not mean that there cannot be certain concerns about what it might mean and how it is worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u61	I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he's gonna be able to answer right away. He needs two and a half minutes to prepare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u62	Mr. Chairman. In addition to a number of comments and points of view from the various political groups, I would like to answer some questions, or comments that call for a response. Mr Pijlman and Mrs Gerkens asked about the unauthorized lessons. Mr Ten Hoeve said provocatively: it will never be possible to bring that down completely. For me, that is an extra motivation to go hard on it. We also share this ambition with the educational sectors: it is the most normal thing in the world that you are competent and competent when you teach a lesson. We have not been sitting still lately, I say to Mr Pijlman. It is perhaps a good idea to rethink the plan of unauthorized people from more than a year ago, because it is too easy to say: the fact that the number of unauthorized people is now falling is due to the economy. Because a lot of things have happened in schools. We are really failing schools and teachers when it comes to a better match between training courses, shorter courses and much more specific information to schools. In this way, we make certain schools aware that they sometimes have far more unauthorized teachers in front of the classroom than other schools. We can see that this is a theme that takes school boards and sector councils very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u63	I'd be failing you and the school boards if I didn't. That's not what I meant at all. But I predict that the attractiveness of outside is great for part of education with a attracting economy; before you know it, we are in the same problems as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u64	Sure. We're far from done. We definitely need to be alert on the market. There will be more teachers to choose from. That can go back to our ambition on this point. But there's really a lot of work going on in schools. Mr Pijlman asked whether informal learning could be included in the evaluation. I'll do that. I made a commitment to Mrs Sent on team learning, which includes Mr Pijlman's words on informal learning. Mr Pijlman asked if teachers would have enough time to meet the learning that is required from these quality requirements. The answer to that is yes. This is done, among other things, with the extra money that has become available during this period. As a result, the social partners have been able to agree in their collective agreements on the number of duty-free hours that teachers have for continuing training and on the resources available to them. In fact, the number of hours in the collective agreements for the p.o. and the vo is up to 80 hours, exceeding the formationary 40 hours thought of when it comes to the re-registration hours that should be required for the register. That should never get ugly. That is a question of implementation which we have taken careful note of. Mr Pijman said that the fact that an additional year is now being taken is a signal to me that the preparation has not been good. See, that's kind of the chicken egg story. Parliamentary treatment has taken a little longer, which means that a number of things have been postponed. It seems to me that we do not try to get it done with steam and boiling water, especially since the schools are right to think that there is a need for extra attention for technology. I think that's only wise. Then Mr Pijlman says: not all schools are yet fully informed. But that has to do with the fact that we will not be able to communicate in the finesses until the Chamber has made a decision. After all, it would be very strange for us in the country to tell us what the register will look like if the Chamber has not yet told us to start working on it. In that respect, I had hoped for the support of D66. I see the register coming back to the electoral programme. Not for nothing have I hinted at the good work of the Rinnooy Kan Committee. But in the end, the D66 Group is about that. Mrs Sent asked about the labour law consequences. Before entering the final stage, can a legal test, justification or reasoning be provided? I think it is good to have a debate at the beginning of the new phase. Then we are quite a few years ahead and the whole right of dismissal and the case law surrounding it may look quite different. I'll tell Mrs. Sent. Mrs Sent asked whether the Chamber could be informed at any time about developments in the area of support. I will also take this into account in the evaluation. Mrs Sent asked whether the commitment I made on the pending procedure under the AMvB also applies to the entry into force decision, i.e. the start of the final phase. The answer to that is yes. Mr Ten Hoeve asked very specifically for support. This is something that needs to grow. Support can be created if we put teachers more into position. That is what we are doing with this bill, but I can very well imagine that a lot of teachers would like to see it first, because seeing is believing. That is why I think it is right that we should now take action. We have now heard all the pros and cons, we have heard the positive sounds, but also the critical sounds. We have succeeded in getting the biggest trade unions behind this bill. I've been sneered at: how can a right-wing liberal like you agree on something like this, with all those left-wing unions? But we have succeeded in doing so. We've gotten all the teachers' organizations involved. Of course, in the backdrop of the unions is discussion about this kind of thing. Not every AOb member is for the teacher register. But within the AOb members have been taken. If you have the big unions and the sectional organizations, and they all say that it is a good thing that we are taking a step in this, then I would really give the professional group the chance to take that step. Then Mr Ten Hoeve can rest assured that I will do everything I can to bring along the critics and those who still need to be convinced of the usefulness and need of such a register in the near future. To be honest, I think that a statement of principle from this Chamber that the teacher register is going to get there can help. We need a moment so you can sit around the table and discuss how we're going to work it out in practice. Against Mr Ganzevoort: it does not stand or fall with the adoption of a law that is perhaps the easiest bump that we have to take.It stands or falls with good implementation and good implementation. That is what we will need to focus our attention on. I believe that this Chamber is going to follow me critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-11.u65	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
