ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on cuts in care for the elderly. I welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport among us, as well as the Members who are taking part in this debate. I have noted that we have a three-minute speaking time. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The cuts in care for the elderly have cost a lot. This has been discussed many times in this Chamber. Think of the destruction of some 77 000 jobs alone; at least so many people have lost their jobs. Think of the nursing homes that are closed. Think of people who have to stay home longer, while care has also been cut back at home. Think of the overcrowded emergency services. Think of people who had to go to court to make sure they got care. Think of the huge bankruptcy rounds that have been going on in the household care organisation. I can go on like this for a while. But what else did the cuts cost? That's a lot of human suffering. That's uncertainty in people: do I still get the care? That is pain and sorrow because people either lost their care or sometimes lost their work in care. But what does it turn out to be? Research carried out by Investico, De Groene Amsterdammer and Algemene Dagblad, among others, showed that these cuts have hardly led to savings. They have cost a lot of money, I have just mentioned some examples of this, but they have also cost money. The Secretary of State disputes this, and I do not think that it would make much sense to discuss it, even if it is because the Secretary of State is in a deep devotional period and will, of course, always defend his policy. Nevertheless, I find it interesting to have this debate tonight, also because I think we should learn from this. We are on the eve of a new cabinet, and I am, of course, very curious as to what the current forming parties think of this investigation. How do they look at this? What are their lessons after this? And how does this relate to the coming years? Mr. Chairman. After a time of great austerity, we are now going to invest 2.1 billion in the care of the elderly, in the nursing homes, in order to achieve the occupation standard, which has long been desired and wanted by the Chamber. That's what it takes. Last week there was a lot of talk in politics about whether or not this money would be legally binding, whether the decision-making mechanisms here in the house were all adequate and whether it could be. The SP is happy to consider in more detail how these decision-making mechanisms have all worked and how they generally work, but on this subject we consider this to be absolutely inappropriate. This subject has been discussed so many times here. It's been decided. The occupation standard, the manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers, has been embraced by us as Second Chamber. So we do not need to discuss it anymore. But I do have two brief questions to ask the Secretary of State. Can he confirm once again that this 2.1 billion is clear and clear and that this money needs to be invested in a binding occupation standard? My second question is about a quote from the current, most recent VWS budget, which I found on page 8. It says "The cabinet has also commissioned a technical work on how the government can be given the legal power to check whether the (exceptional) consequences of quality standards are acceptable, such as (...) the budgetary impact.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Could the Secretary of State explain how to read this? Does this really mean what it says, namely that it has been investigated whether under this 2.1 billion could still be rolled out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. You also have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was just a question of what exactly the angle of view would be for this debate as far as my group is concerned. I think this is a moment to look back; I agree with Mrs Marijnissen. What have we seen in recent years and what can we conclude about this Secretary of State's elderly care policy? Maybe I should start with his target. That was to make it possible for people, including older people, to stay home longer. That goal shares GroenLinks, but of course you have to make it possible for these people to stay home longer and get the care they need. If you want such a big change, so from many people in nursing homes to more people at home, it starts with the fact that you also have to invest, you want to make such a big change in a responsible way. In our view, this Secretary of State has done too little. He's cut down on the Wmo money a lot, so he's cut down on those decentralisations. As far as I am concerned, you might say that in the long term savings can be made with better care at home, but it is precisely those first years that are important to invest in care. That's what we see in countries around us. For example, investments were made in Denmark first. Then you can talk about possible cost savings. However, that is also the reason why it has not gone quite as it should, we can say, and that is very carefully formulated. We do see, indeed, that around the nursing homes there is now a substantial additional investment of 2.1 billion. That is a good thing. That's where the care that people need there has to be provided. At the same time, we should not forget all those older people at home, because that is a very large group, more than 85% of those who, at a late age, still want to live at home. They can only do that if there is sufficient care organised around them. I am therefore pleased that yesterday my motions were adopted to conduct an impact study on the first-line residence and to examine the financing of care for the elderly at home. Hopefully we can use the results and insights from this to see how we can improve care for people at home. We will have to do more for this group of people to keep the care affordable. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we will also have to look at maximising our own contribution. Mr. Chairman. I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State sees as the biggest challenges for the coming years when it comes to organising good care at home. I'd really like to hear what he has to say about that. What does he see as the biggest challenges? If I may take an advance on that myself, I think we should at least get rid of the haste that has to be done often by people in care now, with too little time for real attention to the people at home. This attention, as a recent SCP report showed, is extremely important. However, care workers often cannot deliver it, which leads to frustration among those care workers and insufficient care for the people at home. I'm very curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you for your contribution. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the Party for Freedom. You also have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The two articles following this evening's debate, from the Algemeen Dagblad and De Groene Amsterdammer, are based on research by Fluent and Investico. That information is incredibly interesting. They say that when you start cutting back and when you get more and more older people, you still have the goal of making that care cheaper for each older person. Did you do that? In the end, they found that care per elderly person per 65-pluser has become €420 cheaper during this cabinet period. But that is as much as the amount of money to reverse one of the austerity measures, namely the 37,000 redundancies from the nursing and nursing homes, they said. So on balance you've cut a lot in five years, 105 austerity measures have been implemented, but if you're gonna fix one, you're gonna spend the same on each of the older ones. I found that incredibly interesting. They have also been looking for reasons for this. Actually, they're kind of unheard of. They give us two reasons. The first is an explosive and truly insane increase in regulatory pressure by insurers. I quote from the piece from De Groene Amsterdammer. "The health care provider" "This is about their administration "Delivered everything according to the directives of CZ" "That's the insurer." "So with an indication, a care plan, an externally tested quality system, a note with units of five minutes to €5.77 and a sbi-code, agb-code, et cetera. But paying CZ didn't do it. The nurse also appeared to need a personal agb code. When it was applied for, it appeared that future claims should include the nurse in the quality register." That'll give us expensive care! The second reason they indicate is the 65-plussers who won't make it at home. We read: "The additional expenses of health insurance companies are partly explained by the fact that many more 65-plussers do not make it at home." Mr. Chairman. These investigations indicate, at the end of the period of this Secretary of State, that there has actually been a low-cost price. But what do we read in his letter? He merely points out that the calculations and assumptions contained in that article are incorrect. But they're not at all! They are not to the taste of the Secretary of State, but there is a lot to argue about taste in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has clarified in his letter the accuracy of the amounts, looking at the articles in the letters and in the media. You can discuss this, but I think it is more important to look at the issues on which more action is needed in relation to D66. I've seen a number of topics come along. Take, for example, the rule pressure. It has already been said that this debate is also a kind of reflection. I think the concern is still too much characterised by rules and contractual relations. When it comes to accountability, the emphasis is still too little on care. Today I got another e-mail from a nurse who said: we have to fill in another quality list, and this is yet another one, although we are already so busy with quality. I do not think this cabinet has succeeded in reducing the regulatory burden. The system as such is still very complex for a lot of people. That stands in the way of customization and innovation. I know the Secretary of State is very busy to reduce the regulatory burden. There are all kinds of scrapings. But when can people in the sector really notice anything about this? Then the idea of caring as close to people as possible. This is certainly shared by D66, but this requires close cooperation between the district teams, the district nurses and the general practitioners. We hear that this is not happening enough in practice. How can this cooperation be improved? A very small other topic: the current healthcare infrastructure scheme, which is important for many people, for the functions in the district, will end in 2018. What's the new arrangement gonna look like? An important topic is dementia in care for the elderly. In August I asked written questions about this. To be honest, the Secretary of State replied only in generalities. The questions were about dementia care given under the responsibility of the municipalities. We know that this is very important, because not everyone is immediately covered by the Wlz. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss with the Association of Dutch Municipalities what the bottlenecks are? Because it is of course very important that the municipalities also have a view of the people at home, who suffer from this, in order to be able to provide tailored care. The role of family care is also important. Can the Secretary of State take up this action, with specific attention to the caregiver, and inform the Chamber about it at the beginning of 2018? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA. You too have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everybody wants to get old, but being old is a different story. Then you want care done at home or in a nursing home. That's gotta come first. There have been major reforms in the care sector. The benefits outlined were more tailor-made, more efficiency and less bureaucracy. Now, Investico's research here shows that the goals of transition in care for the elderly have not been achieved. The opposite effect would have occurred, namely higher costs, more bureaucracy and more mistrust. In the letter from the Secretary of State in response to this debate, the CDA reads that growth has been dampened. On the other hand, he states that the cuts in health care at home have partly been reduced. In short, care has been cut at home. In some situations, this has led to less daily spending or help for the household. I saw that myself as a councilman in Groningen. The same research shows that the transition has increased regulatory pressure and mistrust. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? Do those conclusions make any sense? What's his own image of this? Have these reforms led to greater burden burden on the 65-pluser? Is there a temporary situation due to the transition, or is this structural? How does the Secretary of State intend to reverse this? The CDA wants the focus to be on care and not on things like administration. Mrs Bergkamp has already made the point about cooperation in the area of Wmo and community care. It doesn't run everywhere. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have to leave your father, mother, grandfather or grandmother alone in a nursing home after a visit, it's often painful and sad. Then it is important that you can close the door behind you with peace of mind, knowing that your loved one is well taken care of. Fortunately, this can be done in many places in the Netherlands, although that does not make closing the door any less difficult. In addition to that emotion, we all have questions like: can I still pay for the care later? Is there a place in the nursing home for me or for my parents? And once I get into a nursing home, can I continue the life I lived at home there as much as possible? It is then tempting to say that we need to change even more to remove these uncertainties, or that we need to bring everything back to the old ones. Both approaches are not desirable in terms of the VVD. For reforms in care for the elderly had a clear and important goal for the VVD, namely bringing care closer to people. We do not want a single sausage or a ready-made care offer for everyone, but a conversation about what you or your neighbor needs as a starting point for care and support that suits you. People nowadays have more direction over their own lives and the care they need. We are proud to have started that movement. But we've set it in motion; we're not there yet. I realize that all too well. Things that don't go well enough, we have to solve together. For example, if there are rules that stand in the way of this way of working, then we must do something about it. And the most important thing for the coming time is peace and trust. Day in, day out there are thousands and thousands of people working in care so that everyone can live at home as long as possible. Day in, day out people work in nursing homes to make someone feel at home as soon as possible. Loving care requires space and trust. An incident, however annoying, should therefore not be magnified or immediately closed, as that prevents the provision of personal and loving care. To strengthen that trust, extra money is available for nursing homes. The VVD wants the best nursing homes to be the norm. We need to work on that together. This means that we must also look very closely at how that money is being spent, whether we really improve quality and whether care becomes even more personal. Because the last thing I want to do is to stand here in a few years' time and ask ourselves if the investments have been for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	In doing so, we have come to an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	Sorry. I'm just in time. I would like to ask Mrs Hermans a question. The VVD has of course entered the elections with 2 billion for the nursing homes. We have also understood that the quality framework is legally binding and that it will come about. Last week, of course, there was noise in the press. Can you confirm that at least it is still just the planning that a new coalition is going to spend 2.1 billion as we have agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	As I said in my contribution, the VVD wants the best nursing homes to be the norm. At the end of the previous calendar year, we also supported the motion to which I believe you referred in your contribution. There was a staffing standard in that. We also see that in these nursing homes there is a huge pressure on those who do good work day in, day out, but in some places are simply too few to provide not only good medical care, but also the time and attention needed for a fine and good daily use. We are therefore in favour of this staffing standard, the motion that we supported, and also the quality framework that we asked for and what we supported. You're saying there's been noise. I think the noise isn't that bad. The only thing I have read in the Millions' Note is that the Cabinet is going to look at the possibilities of preventing quality frameworks, directives and more of these instruments from making such a big financial claim that we as a Chamber, as a political one, cannot say anything about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked Mrs Hermans, of course, because she is the only one here in the Chamber who sits both in the outgoing cabinet and at the present formation table. So if anyone here knows, it's Mrs. Hermans of the VVD. Indeed, I read that in the Millions Note of the present Demissionary Cabinet. I was surprised. Do I understand you correctly that this is not in Frage when it comes to the occupation standard, the 2.1 billion legally linked to it by the quality framework of the Healthcare Institute? This is really about follow-up missions that may come in the future, but not about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	There is a quality framework. This was registered in January this year in the register of the Zorginstituut and is therefore legally binding and secured in accordance with the Wkkgz. There are also financial consequences. We now have to abide by these consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the Secretary of State can prepare the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. In this debate we look back at the way things have gone and at the same time at some first shadows towards the future. When I read the articles that were in the AD and the studies that were mentioned, I also got a bit of a double-hearted feeling. On the one hand, it was said that there was huge savings. Mrs Marijnissen also said: look at how much savings have been made, think of the Wmo, think of the Health Insurance Act, think of the domestic aid. On the other hand, the story is that there hasn't really been much savings, because there hasn't been much savings. It can't be both entirely true, I guess. As I have also tried to point out in the letter, when the coalition agreement came, we de facto agreed on a number of cuts that are incredibly important to strengthen and improve long-term sustainability. The cabinet has succeeded in doing so. When this cabinet started, there was a negative sustainability figure, a sustainability deficit. That may simply not say so much in a technical sense, but in a practical sense it means that our children and our grandchildren would suffer if we continued in the same way. At the same time, it must be maintained that good care is affordable and available to everyone. It worked at the end of the period. In all the discussions we can have with each other, I am proud that we have a system in which we can guarantee that for the future too for our children and our grandchildren. For sustainability, but also to bring care closer, also to reduce overhead, also to work on a smaller scale and also to ensure that effective work is carried out to ensure that every euro of care is spent on it. Yeah, those aren't easy stories. They hurt too. Those cuts hurt too. We are going to talk about what the rest of the consequences are, but you can see that, compared to the 3.5 billion cuts in the coalition agreement, a number of reductions have been made, especially with regard to domestic aid and extra-mural care, and that a number of intensifications have taken place at the end of that period with regard to nursing care. I think that result can just be there. Mrs Marijnissen has asked a number of questions about the 2.1 billion. They are indeed intended to achieve the quality framework, i.e. for additional staff in the care sector. This should be used not only for the care side, but above all for the welfare side. I also agree with everyone who says that we should look at the labour market side of it: not only the highly educated but also the otherwise trained people who can be used there. I'll confirm that. The second is the search for another procedure, an emergency braking procedure. It will not apply to what we have now agreed, but, as Mrs Hermans rightly said, you can discuss whether politics wants to be more involved if there is such a process. We will work that out, so that the new cabinet can take decisions on it if it agrees. Mrs Ellemeet said, I think, quite rightly, that we should not forget the old people at home as well. This is why there are also incentives for community care, where it is so important that there is cooperation between facilities offered by the municipality and facilities provided by the district care, also under the Long-Term Care Act. I see that insurers and municipalities are increasingly seeking each other to enable their professionals, those they have contracted, to work together in the neighbourhood. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned that as well. One of the most important points is indeed to strengthen cooperation in the first line and cooperation between the first line, community care and social domain, in the coming period. I see very good examples of this. I think we are now approaching the period in which we can learn from that bouquet of flowers that is developing and can see together with the municipalities what does work, what does not work and how we can make better arrangements. Then we can also make a number of good agreements across the domains. Mrs Ellemeet asked me how I look at the future myself. I am reluctant not to get in the way of the new cabinet, but I appreciate her question. It's actually the things that have already been mentioned here. Making sure that care can be arranged nearby doesn't mean that everyone experiences it that way. That personal care, that personal care, and a good client support are really big hits that can still be made there. We should not just shift responsibility towards the client, but also ensure that the client experiences it as such. I think it is a very important point, which has already been raised a little bit, that we are looking for links between the different domains, not just in the care sector. Living, caring and well-being are increasingly related. At municipal level too, we will have to ensure that the alderman cares if the alderman youth is working with the fellow aldermen of living and well-being to ensure that there can be a clear offer for the patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	There's been an interruption by Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not want to reopen the discussion on the quality framework, but I do have a question about it. It is important that the Secretary of State also says that people can get good care at home. We sometimes see situations where people are actually too bad for home and too good for the nursing home, from all kinds of circumstances. For example, they are alone or anxious. Can the quality framework also be extended in this respect, or is it already, especially for people we say are too bad for home, but still, according to all the definitions, too good for the nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	I have said once before in the debate that we should actually use ourselves not to talk about "care for the care of the nursing home" but about "care for the care of the nursing home." Also in the home situation intensive care can be provided. We have also made this possible in the new Long-Term Care Act, but you can see that sometimes this can still be used very slowly. Actually, you might say "but now I'm making it very simple "that nursing care is care where there has to be permanent supervision." But let's say there's a partner in charge of that. Then you could just get that intensive care at home. Finding that connection between home care and intensive care in a nursing home, which you might actually have to cover separately from the nursing home itself, is a point where we need to look for further combinations in the coming period, so that people who need intensive care, but not necessarily want to go to a nursing home because supervision is arranged, can make arrangements about nursing home care for a home situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	That sounds good, but let's get to the current practice. Looking at the current quality framework and the problems we are experiencing with it, is there any possibility that the quality framework in terms of space will also cover this group? Or should something be done for that? Should the quality framework be extended? What must be done to achieve the wish, which I understand from the Secretary of State that he shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	The framework is of course mainly about nursing home care, but the part of that nursing home care that is about intensive care, of course also applies to care that you can also get in the home situation. So there's no need to adapt so much for that. An extra aspect in the quality framework, when you are in a nursing home, is that it may be even more important to look not only at the care side but also at the welfare side. So I do not think that many adjustments in the Quality Framework Nursing Care are necessary in order to be able to make that battle. If you're talking about the full package at home or the modular package at home, you have to ask yourself in what situation that is possible. Are there other bottlenecks and can good agreements be made? I think that with the quality framework as it is now and with good agreements on the whole and the modular package at home, you have all the instruments in your hands to make those agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	I hear the Secretary of State say that it's actually an extension of each other. How are we supposed to see that in each other if we take the quality framework? Can you put that on that extension? Or does the Secretary of State say that we can't, and we'll have to do something extra for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	I understand the question. By the way, the Healthcare Institute is looking at what the quality framework means for care in the home situation. I understand that the aim is to say at the beginning of the coming year what the translation of this quality framework could be to the intensive care provided in the home situation. Then we can see whether that is mutually exclusive or whether something else would be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	So, if I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says that at the beginning of the new year we know if it includes that intensive care at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	Whether you need other things than the quality framework, or whether one-on-one can apply to care at home, regardless of the residence side, or whether you still need to develop something else. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked a number of questions about the state, so to speak. I have seen that a number of questions have also been raised on this point in connection with the Millions Note. Then we will return to that state that Mrs Agema is always asking for. I appreciate her interest in those things, because she's looking at the roots of how the healthcare system works. But the image remains a bit as I outlined. Yeah, there's been cuts. A number of mitigations have been implemented, particularly in the areas of domestic aid and outpatient care. At the end of the period we were able to do a number of intensifications for nursing care. On balance, you will come to a cut of between 2.3 and 2.4 billion, which, by the way, leads to a positive sustainability balance. She also asked me about the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	I think that the earlier point gives rise to an interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u32	I said it in my term, and I'd like to make it right. The Secretary of State is now answering exactly the same as in his letter, but we are conducting this debate following an investigation by Fluent and Investico. They consider the cost of care not as a macro number, but as a cost per older person. That really is a completely different approach to the way the Secretary of State responds with his standard response. They say: after all these 105 austerity measures, the 65-pluser initially costs €420 less, but because one of those austerity measures needs to be repaired, namely those of those employees in the nursing homes, they continue to cost the same, despite the fact that you have taken 104 other measures. That is the reason for this debate. The Secretary of State isn't responding to that at all. He can have it from me. I know he's extremely outgoing, but I'd like to mention that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u33	Now Mrs. Agema adds two things to each other. It's okay. You can say that there have been a number of cuts and a number of intensifications in another area, in the nursing homes, and on balance you don't have so many cuts left. That's a bit of what Mrs. Agema says. Yes, we have taken a number of measures to ensure that care remains sustainable. In addition, at the end of that period we have fortunately found room to intensify as well. Yeah, it's true that if you salt that with each other, there'll be less cuts than you agreed to at the beginning of the period. But that's exactly what we wanted, isn't it? We wanted to strengthen sustainability, which required a number of cuts, and fortunately we found room to invest in the course of that period. Then you can count everything together and say, "Well, you've cut less than you thought at the time." Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u34	No, that's not true, because the Secretary of State keeps flying at macro level. But what have these researchers done? They have looked at the problem at the level of the older, the 65-pluser, which is becoming more and more common. This would put pressure on the sustainability of care and therefore all these austerity measures were taken; I have all 105 always on a page. That's really incredibly much more than a few repairs that have been made. 60,000 places in the nursing homes are no longer funded. The domestic help is halved at macro level; all these people lost those hours. The daily expenditure is 90% gone and there are about a hundred measures left. That's what the researchers say: you actually did that incredibly stupid, because if you compensate for that one measure in nursing care, you still spend the same amount per older person. I find that rather worrying, because I think that the Secretary of State has implemented all these austerity measures to reduce the loss of older people because there are more and more elderly people. That is why I supported this debate and for this reason I regret that the Secretary of State continues to fly at macro level and does not respond to those surveys by older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u35	We're gonna ask the Secretary of State if he can go into that. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u36	Whether you take it macro or micro, when we talk about elderly people receiving care, for the sake of simplicity we talk about three types of care: the care provided by the municipality, the care provided by the Health Insurance Act and the care related to nursing care. Then we see that savings have been made over the last period in respect of the municipal side and the health insurance side. This has led to the reduction of 2.3 billion after a number of softenings have taken place. So that's right: that leads to less costs for the elderly. At the same time, we want more money and quality in the heavier nursing home care with the large complex care questions. That leads to a higher amount of money. If you put all that back together and share it by the number of older people, then perhaps the cost per older person has not fallen, although it remains a saving on balance, and that is the case. But we're going to see that over the next period. There's gonna be more elderly people. This means that the demand for care will increase and that in some cases the more expensive care will also increase, because people will come to a nursing home at a later age. It's caused by demographics. This will entail major changes and shifts in the demand for care. When savings were to be made due to the sustainability of the system, which you may also disagree on, we have sought over the past period to find this in the slightly lighter forms of care and support, to keep the heavier forms of care and support a little out of the wind, even more so in order to intensify there. We have done so over the past few years. I'm glad you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. On this point, there is another interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u38	The Secretary of State states: if you look at the whole picture, you can see that the cuts have mainly been brought down by the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act and that there has been an intensification of long-term care and nursing care. I think that's the summary of what the Secretary of State just said. The Secretary of State is talking about the sustainability of care. I find that a bit of a complicated concept. What does the Secretary of State mean by that? We have transferred a great deal of care so that it takes place at home and no longer in institutions. Does he mean to say that care at home is ultimately cheaper on balance than in institutions? And does the Secretary of State think he can hold on to this division now that more and more complex care has to be provided at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u39	What this precise distribution will be will have to tell the future. In this Chamber, we have adopted the Rutte motion to continue to monitor with each other the development of Wmo care, health insurance and the Long-Term Care Act. Those are limits you're crossing. But it's true. In the current situation, care in a nursing home costs €80,000 per person per year. That's gonna be a little bit more. Neighborhood nurse care costs less. You can see the cost of this increase, because the district nurse care also becomes more intensive. As we manage to take care of people in the home situation, that is a cheaper form of care, until things stop going at home. The distribution between the different types of care is as follows. The support of the municipality costs the least, the district care costs a bit more and the care in a nursing home is the most expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u40	However, I get many signals that care at home is quite vulnerable, because there must be sufficient attention and people are often not constantly in sight. So we need to be very alert about that. I have a lot of optimism with the Secretary of State regarding the sustainability of care for vulnerable elderly people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u41	We will have to keep a close eye on how care develops at home, because community care is increasing in intensity, especially when what Mrs Bergkamp described is happening. If people need very heavy care but do not go to a nursing home yet, then community care will take a lot of hours. By the way, it is still cheaper than intensive care; but well, these are considerations. My last-minute comment was about the whole thing. What we must all keep in mind is that care will remain sustainable for future generations. Simply put: is the arrangement we have today, in the current system, affordable and sustainable for future generations? It wasn't when the cabinet started, but it is now. However, it is not a static whole. We will have to keep a very close eye on how care is developing, whether the district care system is becoming more intensive and expensive and whether you can come up with other models where there is much more cooperation between nursing care and home care. It is not static, but fortunately, in the current situation, we do have a sustainability surplus and not a sustainability deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp asked on which topics more action is needed in the future. I would also like to bridge the point made by Mrs Agema. One of these issues is indeed the multifaceted monster of administrative burdens. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's Part of that is also a kind of logic that results from all kinds of discussions. If we ask ourselves what good care is, we will define it, for example with a quality framework. This leads to this being used as a basis for supervision, procurement and the profession. We must, in fact, continue to be incredibly careful that we do not shut down the care. We need to have more confidence in the professional and we need to constantly combat the multi-headed monster of administrative burdens. That remains very necessary. In all the scraping sessions and investigations that we have done, Mrs Bergkamp mentioned that already, every time I notice that such a session usually starts with "there is too much state regulation" and ends with "these are actually rules we have made up with each other." In the institutions and the profession itself, the discussion must be conducted together, as has happened with the general practitioners. For example: "Do we really need those rules? I thought you said it was necessary. No, there's no need. How can we ensure that it is deleted?" This theme will indeed continue to exist. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the new healthcare infrastructure scheme. The old one does stop. We will give the remaining funds to the municipalities so that they can decide for themselves whether they want to continue with the projects that are running or that they want to start new projects. We are now looking at the contours of this new arrangement, but we are not finished with that. That is also a point on which the new cabinet will have to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u44	An interruption by Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u45	On the previous point of administrative burden, the Secretary of State was now very much concerned with the burden burden in nursing homes. By the way, I totally agree with the line he outlined there. But, of course, we also have the burden imposed by the laws we have decentralised. I think I recall that at the beginning of the missionary period the Secretary of State announced that he would come forward with a legislative proposal to create the possibility to standardise more. I was wondering what the state of play was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u46	I don't know the exact timing, but that bill is at an advanced stage. I don't know if I can do it anymore, but at least that will reach the Chamber soon. I hesitate to say this, but it is true that this was originally in the bill. The Chamber has amended that, and now we say to each other: let us bring that back into it. This does indeed allow us to give indications that it will be standardized. For example, three models have been developed around the Social Domain Information Service. The proposal offers the opportunity to say to the municipalities: choose one of these models and do not make up all kinds of other things. That legislation will soon be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. And Mrs. Her... I'm sorry, Mrs. Bergkamp has an interruption about this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u48	We're already getting confused. I still have a question about the regulatory burden. There is a new quality framework. I've been looking at what's in there, for example, in terms of investigations. It contains, for example, www.beniktevreden.nl. That is an investigation that employees have to fill in to indicate whether they are satisfied with the work they are doing. It says that this is an unconditional part of the quality framework. In other words, settings can choose or not. My hope was that this new quality framework was so focused on leaving out that kind of research, and that it should be left to the institutions themselves. To be honest, I do not understand why the new quality framework is so focused on research again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u49	The Zorginstituut is of course about its own quality framework. But still in defence of that: in the beginning of the discussion on quality, it has been said that two things are essentially, very simplistic. Is the client, the patient, the resident satisfied and is the employee satisfied? If you measure that correctly, you've already captured a lot and maybe you don't have a lot of protocols, guidelines and things. We will not achieve that ideal world at all, but it is important that every institution is aware of the fact that it needs to examine whether its inhabitants are satisfied and whether its employees are satisfied. 'Cause if those two things are right, you've already won half the game. So that the quality institute says "institutions, make sure you always know that," I don't think that's so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u50	As former director Mr.Her, I have always been a supporter of customer satisfaction surveys, but I think that is a responsibility of the institution itself. I do not think it should be so much part of a quality framework that many organisations think we are going to do, although they often have their own system. But I share the Secretary of State's view that it is also good to measure satisfaction. Another question: we have been working for years on the approach of the "many-headed monster of regulation" as the Secretary of State calls it. What are the lessons learned from all these rule printing sessions? The Secretary of State says that at least we can get out that they are often not national rules. But what else can we learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u51	What I take from all these sessions: keep it very practical with the workplace. Because they experience work pressure, which is sometimes not experienced as a workload, because everyone says: it is logical that we keep track of it. Sometimes things are kept that don't make sense. If as an institution you are willing to look at what you encounter on the workplace rather than at the abstract rules and laws, then it will work. I've seen projects, along with nurses, in which nurses do it themselves, as it were. Those projects are getting results fast. So each institution should actually work with the workplace itself to see how it will clean up unnecessary rules of its own; if we cannot motivate them, then we will not do it anymore. I have seen very nice examples where 10%, 20%, 30% has just been cleaned up, which everyone has experienced as a huge relief. That's one. The second point is that it also requires the attention, intention and energy of the summit. If the leader of the organization doesn't find this, doesn't know the workplace and doesn't want to clean it up, it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked: is this administrative burden problem a problem of all times or is that a temporary problem? I think the real answer is both. During the transition, a number of additional burdens have indeed been added, even if only because it is now necessary to talk to municipalities. That's more than the number of health offices you had before. That also gives extra burdens. In this respect, standardisation will help if we decide to do so together. Part of it is also a problem of all times, because if you don't watch out, it grows. There's been an incident. Then there's a registration. After that, everyone forgot it was there, because it was an incident, and it crept into it structurally. I think that the fight against administrative burdens must always continue, but we must clean up what is a temporary hiccup that cannot be denied in the context of the transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u54	At the beginning of the transition we indicated that as a result we wanted less control pressure. I understand your answer, but the fact that we now have more control pressure was not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's right. At the same time, we have said that we want to organise care closer to the people and give the municipalities more responsibilities. As a result, an institution that used to do business with four health offices will now have to do so with 14 municipalities. That institution will experience it as a burden that it now has to do business with more people. I think you should try to reduce some of that burden by standardizing, especially when it comes to registrations, auditing and that sort of thing. It is very important to see what you can do in a certain municipality. And you've already given that to a town council when it talks to people about what they need. That's harder than saying: I have a form, I have three standard products, just check it out. It's administratively very easy, but you don't know what to deliver. So part of that administrative burden is inherent in getting closer to people, taking more account of personal circumstances and making sure you know them. That gives extra pressure, but to my taste also better care. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Hermans said it very nicely: loving care requires space and trust. We still have to work very hard on that. I think that space and trust are sought here and there. The nurse can indict himself. We're trying to clean up rules. We have a quality framework, so that every care buyer or supervision does not have to rethink what will be looked at every time. That's gonna help, but we're a long way from here. I very much agree with Mrs Hermans when she says that much has been done, but there is still a lot to be done, both in terms of rules and in terms of treatment and customer support. Mrs Hermans' last point concerning nursing homes was that the best should be the norm. I very much agree with her. It is not for nothing that the Healthcare Authority has said in its calculations for impact analysis: we are not only going to see what is needed and then put a plus everywhere, but we are going to take the norm of the best performing nursing homes. That was the basis for the calculations made by the Healthcare Authority. This will in the near future develop the Healthcare Authority in a tariff regulation that takes into account the situation that should best be the norm and not the average.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u56	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. That is not the case. This brings us to the end of the debate in this 30-member debate on cuts in care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-8.u57	I propose that we proceed immediately to the next 30 Members' debate, which concerns redundant workers who are being asked to return to care.
