ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The fight against radicalisation and terrorism is very difficult and very difficult. In all kinds of ways, the monster is tried to be restrained, also by a very brave former minister in Eindhoven. He has banned an Islamic conference of hate preachers on the basis of public order. That is an important step. As far as the CDA is concerned, every effort must be made to prevent radical preachers from getting a stage. So howdy to this mayor. He's in the wind and he's taking responsibility. Hate preachers are spreading the poison that puts us in danger and undermines our democratic rule of law. Unfortunately, this brave mayor got the lid on yesterday. He initially got right from the amenities court, the court in Den Bosch decided otherwise. The mayor would have unduly violated the freedom of religion and freedom of assembly and demonstration. And here we are. With everything that is in us, we want to combat radicalisation, but apparently these sick people's freedom rights stand in the way of that. The CDA refuses to accept that. The question is what the cabinet will do to ensure that these preachers can be prevented. Let us be quite clear that this is precisely why the CDA has come up with the initiative proposal to ban the glorification of terrorist violence. With such a law in hand, such people can be prevented, as glorifying terrorist violence is exactly what they do. But no, such a proposal is repeatedly dismissed by critics, including the VVD, as thought police. In fact, as a pubess, the VVD wanted to ask questions today about this issue to the Minister of Integration. Of course it has something to do with integration, but this is a security issue. Our young people are being poisoned. That must be stopped. But no, instruments and potential instruments are being thrown out of the hands of courageous citizens. We stand by and look at it. The question to the cabinet is: what is it going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that what happened in Eindhoven is a good thing. It's not like the mayor had to operate on his own at the time. As a cabinet, we make it possible and are actively working on it by preventing, if possible, such people, who want to spread their message of poison in Dutch society, from coming to the Netherlands at all by withdrawing or refusing a visa. In this case, we have taken more measures together. I deliberately use the word "together" because we are not letting this go now that this statement has come. We've managed to get five people to refuse the visa. They weren't there. In addition, additional measures have been taken by the municipality. The judge has now ruled on that. That statement is quite fresh, so we will have to consider the precise consequences. Moreover, there is still a possibility of appeal. We are in contact with the municipality of Eindhoven to see if they will appeal to get more clarity about the legal status. Mrs Van Toorenburg asks what the cabinet will do. We keep refusing visas when we think someone's just coming to preach hatred. We are looking at whether this is also possible for people who do not have a visa because, for example, they already have a right of residence in Europe or in Europe. We will inform the Chamber further about this. Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about the CDA's own-initiative proposal. In practice, most cases where you want to fight violence glorification are already covered by criminal definitions such as sedition or inciting hatred. On the basis of yesterday's ruling, such a law might add something, but not in this area. We would not be able to prevent such a meeting under that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	We have read that visas have been withdrawn or not granted on the basis of a number of points. That's not consistent. I would therefore like another response from the Secretary of State. But I do not really hear what he is going to do in legislation. After all, I have taken the time to study the pronunciation carefully. The court itself makes it quite clear that, according to the explanatory statements, the legislator has rejected the creation of that power. So the question to the Secretary of State is: what authority is he going to refer to the Chamber if she does not want to take up the fantastic initiative of the CDA that is being dealt with? We'll keep fighting for that. But if it doesn't have to be, what will it be? The judge himself says that the legislator has not decided to take preventive action. So our question to the cabinet is: how is it ensured that this is possible? It's important, the mayors are asking for it and they want to have this weapon. This instrument must be in the toolbox of our public administrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	First of all, I will address the question of why some visas are being withdrawn and some of them are not. The visas have all been withdrawn, but sometimes someone doesn't need a visa to get to the Netherlands. This is the case, for example, if he is also a national of another EU Member State. We are now looking at whether we can also prevent these people from coming to the Netherlands to do this kind of lyrics. That is the difference between speakers who do and speakers who do not enter the Netherlands. On the other point: Mrs van Toorenburg is right that the judge should make a certain ruling with yesterday's ruling. Of course, we always have the opportunity to look into further legal proceedings to see whether this legal form will continue. We are therefore in conversation with Eindhoven to see whether appeal is meaningful. If we were to be clear with another statement and be able to take preventive action, that would be the quicker way. Furthermore, the cabinet will consider whether there are other avenues. Other municipalities have taken measures which have not been transposed by the courts. So we are looking at whether there are measures available in the toolbox that can be used for this, or whether further legislation is needed. We'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think this is too much to wait for. Apparently, mayors in various municipalities all have to invent the wheel. I hear the cabinet is next to them; that's good, too. But now that the judge has said that the legislator has not opted for preventive action, I think it is more important as a Chamber to take responsibility for offering the hook, so that not every mayor should start looking for what can be done. The question is specific: when will we be informed about this? When does the cabinet come up with a concrete proposal to make preventive action possible, so that the mayors do not have to look every time and do not have to fight every time? We must send a clear signal to our society. We find this poison in our society. We have something to protect each other. In what way are we going to ensure that the mayors can do this properly because it is clear to them, so that they do not all have to go through complicated legal procedures as a kind of lamb at the slaughter house? And what if the appeal doesn't come? So how do we get an answer about this? That too is important to know. Is there going to be an appeal? What's gonna happen? How do the mayors really get cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs Van Toorenburg pretends that the mayors have to figure it out for themselves, but that's not true. We will assist them in that. We work together on a case-by-case basis. We have also done so in the case of a lot of incidents or planned meetings. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that we must stop this poison from spreading. So there are already more instruments. I am not yet ready to conclude that all the instruments have been thrown out of my hands. When we inform the Chamber of which other routes are already possible or need to be created, it also depends on whether appeals are being made. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg wants me to be able to say now that there is an appeal, but that is, of course, formal to the municipality of Eindhoven. We have no contact with the municipality because we advise against it; let me put it this way. If an appeal is made, it will take a little longer to be clear. But in the meantime, too, we are working together with municipalities in all ways to ensure that such meetings are blocked, as in the past, so that these people cannot come here to spread that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	This is too weak, as far as I'm concerned. This is fundamental. This is about an important subject, because every time it appears that hate preachers in the Netherlands can express their message of poison. Then you cannot simply say: we are in agreement with Eindhoven. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if there's any parallel work on a bill. If it turns out that you cannot do this legally, then we must have an incredibly quick legislative proposal here that will make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Keijzer listens to half of my words and is judging on that basis. That's unfair. It pretends that everyone can spread that poison, while practice shows that we have refused numerous visas and that we have prevented numerous meetings in all kinds of different ways. The judge is now criticizing one method for which this has been done. Then you cannot draw the conclusion that we do not have enough instruments. We will look at this and if our study shows that the risk of appeal if it goes wrong again can only be remediated with a new legislative proposal, then we will take it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think we in the Chamber share the desire to counter this kind of excess. I would like to express my appreciation for the steps taken by the cabinet. If the analysis shows that there is a gap in the legislation in force, what time does the Secretary of State propose to the Chamber to close that gap in the short term, that is to say to fix the deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	If so, the Minister will. I cannot speak for him and mention a term because I cannot see how complicated or easy such a gap is to close. It's hard to put a deadline on that right now. I do believe, however, that if the analysis shows that the judge does not fix it and that something really needs to be done, we must do so quickly. We will inform the Court of Justice about this with an assessment of the time involved. The cabinet does not disagree with the purpose of acting in Eindhoven. We really see this as something that needs to be repaired.
