ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, the spokesmen and the spectators, of course. Today, three Members are going to make their first speech in plenary; that is what we call a maiden speech. The three members are Mrs Van Eijs of D66, Mr von Martels of the CDA and Mr Laçin of the SP. A maiden speech means that the colleagues are not allowed to interrupt them. It also means that after the three maiden speeches we suspend for a moment, so that you can congratulate the three new members on their maiden speech. We will begin with Mrs Kröger, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr President. When are we really going to protect our citizens, our air, our drinking water and our nature? They sound like harsh words, but once in a while we have another debate like this. Whether as a weedfighter or as a chemelot weedfighter or as PFOA and GenX substances at Chemours, the agreement is that the precautionary principle is not being properly applied and that permits are not being issued without proper and sufficient information on the substances. Often, if the substances are properly investigated, they prove to be harmful to the environment and health. Sometimes it takes years to figure out what the effects are. In the meantime, the suffering for people living around, for workers and for the environment has already been experienced. These are unnecessary consequences. The situation at Chemours, formerly DuPont, is even an accumulation of problems. In this situation, we play with our air and our drinking water. That is something we really must avoid at all times. For example, RIVM found that residents of DuPont/Chemours were exposed to high concentrations of PFOA by air over a long period of decades, with serious health risks, according to the RIVM conclusions. Today's AD research has shown that the company has known about this for decades. Fortunately, this substance is no longer used and the EU has also banned it, but the confidence of local residents, workers and citizens in the Netherlands has been damaged. I am pleased that the Secretary of State accepts the recommendations of the RIVM, but I find it too lean. What can we actually do for the victims of these years of high emissions? There is now a trial of residents who have demanded 50 million. In America, it has already led to damages. But what can the government do in this? Has the Secretary of State DuPont/Chemours addressed his moral responsibility? Yesterday, the director of the company apologized to the residents not to be needed. Does Chemours contribute to the costs that the government has to incur for information meetings and research? Will citizens be compensated for all the expenses they have to incur? I like to get a reaction. PFOA has now been replaced by GenX technology, which also releases harmful substances. RIVM is not sure whether exposure to these substances leads to health risks. RIVM also indicates that it is not clear what the substances have to do with the environment, because they accumulate in fish. In short, we must learn from the past and not make the same mistakes. The lights have been on orange for a while. Then you have to stop, because red sometimes follows very quickly. GroenLinks therefore wants a moratorium on emissions and discharges of the GenX substances until there is clarity about the risks. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities for that? Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce the precautionary principle more clearly into laws and regulations? For example, we do not impose huge costs on drinking water companies because the water needs to be purified. Does the Secretary of State see the possibility that before granting an authorisation for industrial discharges, the effects on drinking water will first be looked at? The drinking water companies also consider that there is too little transparency about the substances that are discharged. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? How can we properly record this in the new Environment Act? I have another question about the powers of the province. The province of Zuid-Holland has now issued a new permit, allowing Chemours to discharge fewer GenX substances. We read that the Secretary of State supports this modification of the permit, but we also hear through the province that it has had quite a few feet in the earth and that the province does not just have the power to adapt permits in this situation. Is it possible to strengthen the authority so that it can more easily issue a revision permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Let us now listen to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66, who, as has already been said, will make her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. Of all those present here, I'm probably the one who's been looking at the largest number of people behind the front door. I visited thousands of people at home, among other things to inspect their homes for asbestos and to see if the rental house needed maintenance. Those were social rentals. I used to see people who struggled to make ends meet. I also saw people who had made their rented house a palace in which many hours and much love had sat down. I also saw people in all their vulnerability at home. I saw their hobbies, their trophies, pictures of birthplaces. I talked to them about their lives, their work and their family. People who opened up and shared things with me because they were at home and felt safe there. An older man I barely left alone because I was wondering if he'd be okay. But he wanted to stay there, in his own house, to which he was so attached. What all these people have in common is that their home is their home, their safe haven. All these house visits have made me deeply aware of the importance of a safe home. That's why I feel so privileged about what I'm allowed to do here in the Chamber. I can work on the topics of living, spatial planning and the environment, for a safe, pleasant living and living environment. 'Cause that home of people has to be safe. That brings me to the subject of this debate. That's basically about trusting that home base to be safe. The inhabitants of the Chemours factory in Dordrecht, formerly DuPont, assumed this for many years. That trust, as it turns out, was unjustified. For 30 years, DuPont has emitted many times higher concentrations of PFOA than is acceptable to human health. This has had potentially harmful consequences. It now appears that DuPont knew in 1984 that the residents were at risk, but because of the great economic importance they continued to use the substance. If I had lived or lived near this factory myself, I would also be concerned about my health. I would feel put in the cold by the company and by my own government. The Secretary of State writes in her letter that after five years, a number of people still have increased levels of PFOA in their blood. However, what I do not read in that letter, but what is evident from the calculations of the RIVM, is that residents have been exposed on average in the past to much higher concentrations of up to 90 to 130 nanograms per milliliter. Doesn't the Secretary of State give people a false sense of security in this way? The health risks of values between 90 and 130 are probably many times greater than the risks highlighted by the Secretary of State in her letter. How is it that DuPont himself knew about serious risks in 1984, but that licences have been issued all this time and that the use of this substance has never been restricted? Why has the government been waiting and waiting all this time? Shouldn't the Netherlands have launched its own investigation much earlier and made its own judgement? Can Chemours be held liable for this catastrophe, now that it appears that the company has been aware of the risks for a long time? What about the employees? What's the status of their health research? Then, of course, there is the new, also controversial GenX technique. I agree with the questions raised by GroenLinks. Can the Secretary of State reassure me? Does it now take action to prevent future health risks at all costs? Are there other locations in the Netherlands where potentially hazardous substances have been used? Did people take risks there, too? Because that's what I'm worried about. Then I have a very specific question. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just say to anyone who hasn't been examined: if after a doctor's visit and subsequent blood tests you have only one increased blood count, you can participate in the health study? Locking up. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to convince all those who are currently concerned, and whose trust in this company and in the government has been severely damaged, that they will be taken seriously from now on. After all, the home of people must be safe!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	I can congratulate you from this chair on this wonderful maiden speech. Soon I'll suspend the meeting for congratulations from the others. The flowers are already inside! We are now going to listen to Mr von Martels of the CDA. I would also like to give you the floor for your maiden speech, Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. During the election campaign, I advocated greater farmers' understanding in the Chamber. It is only when you are a farmer that such a message really comes across as credible. I am glad to say that this is true of me. That was already in there at a very young age. It was the time, in the early 1960s, when the milk cans were still on the side of the road and almost every neighbor was still a farmer. It was the time of the mixed farms and the time when everyone still owned a vegetable garden. My desire to become a farmer was great, but as the youngest of four children had to prove whether it would be possible to take over the business. In the end, I was in the fortunate circumstance that that was indeed the case and that it could be done. My wife and I have fought with heart and soul to maintain and develop the company, always knowing that you have to take into account the new demands of time. Job joy and the desire to be able to pass the company on to a new generation in a good way, were always a great driving force. If you want to survive as an entrepreneur, you have to be able to adapt. No one will deny that, of course. But it is important to know in what direction and at what pace. In addition, no, politics must be helpful. In the last few years, however, I have noticed that this aid has almost been omitted. My political ambitions have everything to do with this. I see the more than 21,500 votes I have collected as a strong encouragement, but also as a moral obligation to ensure that the agricultural sector is given the recognition and appreciation that the sector deserves. This includes, for example, a Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, there appears to have been a gap between urban and rural areas. The bet has to be to close this one. Part of that is that the Chamber is going to think less Randal. Today, for the first time since my stay at the Binnenhof, I can prove that my presence and contribution to my own call can contribute. Translated into today's agenda, this leads me to a number of considerations and findings. In the eyes of my party, a company itself has the responsibility to prevent health effects for workers and the environment. The government has a responsibility to ensure security. It is clear that for years before production was stopped at the company DuPont, it was known that the substance PFOA, or C8, could have negative effects on human and animal health. Until 2012, the substance was used in the factory in Dordrecht. Long-term residents of the factory are exposed to high values of C8 in the air that are risky for health. Still there are neighbors with elevated levels of C8 in their blood. Of course, that should never have happened. The CDA therefore supports the residents and their claim. All residents should also be assisted and supported in additional medical examinations if they need them. Is this gonna be taken care of? We also need to be national and international about whether admission has been sufficiently thorough and whether the current process of evaluation is sufficient. Can the Secretary of State reflect on whether the approval of the substance C8 was valid at the time? Is it possible at present, in the European authorisation process and in the new evaluations of previously authorised substances, to identify and policy on adverse effects of substances? I also note that there are still investigations going on. For example, when will the in-depth investigation of the Minister for Social Affairs be sent to the Chamber? Shouldn't this have been there by now? The CDA also welcomes the involvement of RIVM in the dust evaluation of the GenX substances. We want to press the RIVM to the heart to act as fast as possible. Given what has happened before, I fully understand the concerns about this new technique and the substances that may be released. From this point of view, the initiatives taken by the waterboard are very imaginable. I would like to point out that it is impossible for me to assess what is a safe limit from a scientific point of view. However, I would like to know whether this limit value in drinking water is also included in the European evaluation. Finally, two questions. I think my speaking time has already been exceeded by one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	I'll give you extra space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	Is there now an import ban on products containing C8 in the European Union? What is the status of the C8 discussions under the Stockholm Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you very much. Congratulations on your maiden speech, too. In a maiden speech, I try to be a little more flexible in terms of speaking time, so that you can also make a few personal comments. We're going to listen to today's third and final maiden speech. It belongs to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP. Then we will suspend for a moment to congratulate the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday we saw the RIVM report on the blood tests among residents of DuPont/Chemours. I do not want to talk today about figures and statistics, I want to talk about men, women and children who have been exposed to toxic substances for years: workers and residents. One of those neighbors is Hans. Hans is in the public gallery today; hello, Hans. Hans lives only hundreds of metres from the Chemours factory in Dordrecht. He has seen for years that first DuPont and now Chemours first PFOA and then GenX discharge into the Merwede. When does it stop, he wonders. Is it gonna stop again at all? What dust is coming after GenX? What do Hans and others have to say about this? Hans is active with his vve to make homes more sustainable through better insulation and solar panels, while the environment has been polluted for years at a stone's throw. Hans thinks all this is unfair. It makes him angry and it makes him want to be heard by The Hague and Chemours. Chemours has recently reached a settlement in the United States of America of USD 670 million with 3,500 workers and local residents. And yes, Mr President, you can already guess: this settlement has been made for the discharge of PFOA, the same substance that has been discharged here in Dordrecht for decades, until 2012. As other colleagues have said, today various media have shown that DuPont already knew in the 1980s that PFOA was dangerous for employees and local residents. But the economic importance was more important. The economic importance was more important than public health. Why don't we stop it here? How long are we going to allow workers and residents to be exposed to these toxic substances? How does the Secretary of State feel about this? What is more important: the interests of shareholders or the prevention of health risks for workers and residents? With a lot of commotion surrounding the discharge of PFOA and GenX, Chemours has pledged to invest millions in a new plant to better purify GenX from the wastewater. Residents, however, experience this as a tiny patch on a very large wound. Why didn't Chemours bring that up until now? Why didn't it come up with that much earlier? The question is how, after PFOA and now GenX, we will not be confronted with a new substance whose effects on public health are unknown. Is it not strange that companies that produce these toxic substances can decide for themselves how dangerous they are and that they can place them on the market after registration with the European Chemicals Agency in Finland without any prior checking? Let us look at the example of the food industry. It will test everything for food safety and will not be placed on the market until it has been approved. The SP believes that we should also move towards such a system in the case of dangerous substances which could endanger public health. The current system is not working. Together with employees and local residents, the SP is committed to ensuring good guidance for residents and compensation for those who have been injured. We will also continue to raise the current system in which the butcher adopts his own meat. We're gonna keep trying for change. Finally, I ask the Secretary of State what she is going to do to make Hans and all the other residents feel that they are being taken seriously and that they matter. And what is she going to do to ensure that Hans and all the other residents will not be confronted with a new substance that they do not know about in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	I would ask Mrs Van Eijs, Mr von Martels and Mr Laçin to come forward so that all group members can congratulate them on their maiden speech in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	After this maiden speech and the congratulations it is now up to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. This request for debate has actually been pending since 2012. Since then, many reports have come out about the use of chemicals in the factory Chemours, the former DuPont. Several issues have been raised here. On Sliedrecht24 you can read a lot in the regional media. The next item is PFOA, perfluorooctane acid, which I shall now refer to as C8 and which is used in the production of teflon. Residents have been exposed to this for years. The next item is the long-term exposure of workers to the substance DMAc in the lycra factory, the licensing by the province, the threat of legal proceedings by the drinking water company, a million-dollar claim by residents of the company and the alternative substance GenX, the replacement of PFOA or C8 and its discharge into surface water. All this coverage has led to concerns for residents, employees and former employees. I fully understand that. Suppose you've lived with your family for years under the smoke of a factory just across the Merwede in Sliedrecht. A good friend of yours worked in that factory for years. She just retired and has health problems. You may not be affected by anything yourself, but a while ago you donated blood, because you participated in a sample of the RIVM. Then you get the RIVM report, which says, and you read it: there remains scientific discussion about what a safe level of exposure is; it is not easy to determine whether this has led to adverse health effects in the past or now; residents may have suffered adverse effects. What are you gonna do with that? It doesn't clarify what you and your girlfriend need. Nor does it create the clarity you had hoped for. It's a difficult matter. So I fully understand that residents are wondering what risks they are running. People are entitled to answers. For the VVD it is crucial that all people in Sliedrecht, Papendrecht and Dordrecht get clarity. The RIVM has carried out research, but the recent report and the conclusions of the RIVM investigation do not give that clarity. This will require further research. That's frustrating, but it's true. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what the planning is. When are these people gonna be clear? And what about the investigation of the Inspection SZW when it comes to former and current employees? Then the substance C8. No less than 32 years the standard has been exceeded. How has the situation survived for so long? Of course, the ball is primarily at the company itself, but who should have called the bell? Who was supposed to keep it? For what reason didn't that happen? The supervisor has become more professional for a number of years. We've formed inspection services. Is that really the solution to prevent this kind of thing? C8 is now banned, but there are questions about the replacement GenX. You're gonna need new research for that. That investigation's gonna take another year. In the light of this, I am pleased that the province of South Holland has decided to amend the permit, just as a precaution, to reduce the discharge of GenX. The company and the new director are trying to show commitment, but the trust is gone. The company has a huge communication problem, but even worse is that the neighborhood has a huge problem with toxic substances in their environment. This is an undesirable situation. We cannot simply eliminate the concerns by providing information. So it's gonna be a long time and maybe a long fight. The VVD wants to know from the Secretary of State what else we can do to reduce the unrest. The VVD wants clarity and transparency of information. Of course, we want to avoid these kinds of situations. How are we gonna make that happen? How's it going now? Can such a bizarre delay of 32 years be avoided? It is of the utmost importance to learn lessons. Which ones are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	I have a question for Mr Dijkstra about reducing the amount of GenX that can currently be discharged on the basis of the permit issued by the province of South Holland. Does the VVD consider that this is enough or does it consider that residents and local residents should not be exposed to this substance and therefore that there should be a moratorium on further discharges of GenX until it is clearly established that there are no risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	I believe that the province has taken a good step with its re-sharpment as a precaution. These substances also need to be further investigated, but I think all the way back to zero also means that the plant would close. You have to ask yourself if that's necessary. GenX is an alternative. It is not really a substance, but a process in which several substances are used, leading to a reaction again. It's very difficult to qualify them. That is why further research is needed. Of course, I do not want us to be faced with a situation in 20 years' time where we say: if only we had banned it. It is an alternative that has been created as an alternative to a substance that we know is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	The RIVM clearly states that it cannot guarantee safety at the moment and therefore that further research is really needed. Does the VVD agree with us that we really need to look at how discharges can be stopped in the short term, so that there are no unnecessary risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	It's a good question to see if that's physically possible. It is now a step too far to close the factory, but this is a good question to the Secretary of State. I have previously asked written questions: if only a few thousand kilos are discharged, can you temporarily store it in tanks or something? This is a very small, minimally good in waste water, but it is a lot of waste water. That does not seem to be possible, but I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	You're asking the Secretary of State what else we could do. Would it be an idea to make further research available to those who have not participated in the first round and who are not yet aware of their blood levels? Do you see any good in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	Yeah, I think the unrest is much wider than just the people who participated in the sample. I've seen the results of that. I think that openness and transparency of data are things that we can do par excellence and relatively easily for people who are concerned. Anyone who needs that should be able to see that information, because nothing is as bad as not knowing what you are up to and that you will read such a report. I already gave that as an example. What are you doing with those RIVM phrases? I was hoping it was black and white, but this is a very gray outcome. That's what makes it so complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. "It's in the bottom. It's in the groundwater. It's in the surface water. It's in the trees, in the bushes. It's in the air. It's everywhere. It doesn't belong in our environment and it doesn't belong in my body." This is a quote from only one of the many concerned people who have been drinking tap water in which toxic carcinogens have been found. Cause: chemical company DuPont and spin-off Chemours have been discharging toxic waste water for decades. First C8 and now GenX. DuPont was previously compromised when PFOA or C8, the proven toxic and severely carcinogenic brother of GenX, was found in high concentrations in the blood of employees in Dordrecht. So, what's going on? For decades DuPont knew about the dangers of the substance C8, also for neighbors of the factory, but was silent about it because the economic interests were too great. After the ban of C8, GenX replaced it. Residents and former employees demand 50 million euros in damages due to health damage and loss of value in their homes. Drinking water company Oasen, which supplies drinking water to 750,000 people in South Holland, now talks about the discharge of C8 successor GenX as "a substantial threat" and also goes to court. Rijkswaterstaat has already talked about major risks to public drinking water supply. There is every reason to take seriously the concerns about the risks of discharge of GenX, especially when we talk about a company like Chemours, which was founded in 2015 as a spin-off of DuPont, a world player with a very dubious reputation. Although Dupont stopped C8 in 2013, its effects faded. The question whether GenX variant is less dangerous remains unanswered. From the tests that DuPont himself has put forward, external researchers conclude that GenX also has carcinogenic properties and can cause damage to vital organs. The Dutch toxicologist Jacob de Boer therefore concludes that the substance should be prohibited. Chemours is allowed to discharge some 2.035 kilos of GenX on the Merwede as of 2018 according to a modified permit. Whether the chemist wants to do so is the subject of negotiations. Anyone who throws a piece of paper on the street should quite rightly take account of a report, but anyone who pours poison on our surface water can still negotiate with the government about the quantities and conditions. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that the power of chemical companies should be restricted? The Animal Party considers that chemical companies should be subject to the competent authority of the government for licensing, supervision and enforcement, given that the government has greater power and has the task of optimally protecting its citizens. I'd like a response. Whether GenX, the successor to C8, is immediately damaging public health should not matter. For decades, releasing chemical substances and only then looking back at the consequences for humans, animals and the environment is an unsustainable way of working. That is why the Party for Animals urgently asks the Secretary of State to ban the discharge of GenX. Take into account the precautionary principle and include in legislation that only proven harmless substances may be discharged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. As a resident of the Netherlands, as a resident of the Dordrecht region, you must be able to trust that the house in which you live and live is safe and that the government will do everything in its power to ensure that security is guaranteed by establishing rules, enforcing and controlling laws. When this doesn't happen, doesn't happen for years, doesn't happen for decades, your trust is severely damaged. This confidence does not just come back, even if a substance is banned, but there are other substances that may pose health risks. My colleagues have already asked many useful questions. I also feel unanimity on this issue in the Chamber. I would like to ask a number of additional questions. The first question is how we are going to restore this confidence. How do we deal with the people who have already been found to have an increased level in their blood? The Secretary of State writes in her letter that there is indeed room for further investigation. Will that happen too? In what way are these people accompanied? How do we deal with the further research into the GenX study? A number of colleagues have asked specific questions about this. I would like to add another question. It is a relatively sensitive region, a region already affected by serious health risks in drinking water. But not only that, it is also a region with a lot of transit roads and a lot of transport via ports. So there is already an additional concentration of dangerous substances. Is this considered in the investigation with these people? Is that taken into account? I read the report by the city council of, I believe, last night, also on this issue. A sense of powerlessness emanates from that. The members of the city council also say: we are not talking about it, but we do think we should go over it and at least express our concerns. This has partly to do with the fact that in the past there has not always been good cooperation with the various government organisations that have been involved. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that direction and control can no longer be reasons for the longevity of health risks? This fragmentation must be broken. There must be direction and control, not only now, but also because it is something that we do not yet have complete vision of, namely GenX. The drinking water companies also insist on paying attention to the effects of hazardous substances on drinking water supply. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has already made a concrete suggestion on authorisation in relation to drinking water. She says that there should be extra control of this and that this should be explicitly taken into account in the licence. That seems to me to be a very good suggestion. I'd like to await the Secretary of State's response to this. There have been a lot of investigations and a number of investigations are still ongoing. There is also a criminal investigation under way. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State will take us with him in the future. It is something we need to discuss not only now, but also for the long term. I wish the people in Dordrecht and the surrounding area very much strength with all their worries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you very much. I think you will certainly do so on behalf of all of us. As the last speaker of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. Trust is good, but control is better. According to the PVV, this should be the creed for the enforcement of environmental permits. It is important that the safety of residents and employees is guaranteed at all times. The PVV is therefore surprised that the RIVM report reports that there has been a long-term exceedance of the limit values of PFOA. Mr President, how is it possible that since the 1980s people have been exposed to PFOA with the knowledge of the government? What has gone wrong with years of monitoring and enforcement of environmental permits, I ask the Secretary of State through you? The PVV wants clarity for everyone in the area. It is time for the Secretary of State to clean up once and for all and for the residents to stop dangling in uncertainty. What is the Secretary of State going to do for the residents? These people in Dordrecht and Sliedrecht have the right to be clear instead of talking to their family doctor. The PVV considers that the safety and public health of residents and workers should not be at stake. There is an important supervisory task for the various authorities. However, the PVV also finds that DuPont or.q. Chemours must perform an important task in both guaranteeing safety and compensating residents. How will the Secretary of State ensure that future supervision and enforcement are flawed so that the public health of residents is not put at risk again for years? It is madness that governments are throwing each other away when it comes to responsibility, supervision and enforcement. The PVV is surprised at the large number of uncertainties with which the RIVM presents its report. A brief summary of the report mainly contains the terms "possible," "expected," "indeed" and "probably." From a renowned institute like RIVM we expect a thorough research based on scientifically tested data. In short, the PVV is happy that the Secretary of State takes over the recommendations, but it offers the residents and staff no more than a cloth for bleeding. We call on the Secretary of State to come up with clear agreements so that safety and public health are no longer a game of the supervisory authorities. The PVV wants the Secretary of State to pay more attention to the unrest among the residents of Dordrecht and the surrounding area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	This brings us to the end of the Chamber's contribution. The Secretary of State has asked for a ten-minute suspension to prepare the answers. I'm suspending the meeting until about 3:50 p.m. Then the Secretary of State will answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	We are now going to listen to the Secretary of State, who is going to answer the questions that Members have asked in the first term. I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my reply, I too should like, as is customary, to congratulate the Members who made their maiden speech, in this case Mrs Van Eijs, Mr von Martels and Mr Laçin, on their maiden speech. We are having a debate on a subject that many people, especially in the Dordrecht region, have been working on daily for a long time now. I would like to start my contribution with the people and I would also like to comment on some of the research carried out by the RIVM and on how we proceed now. I will then turn to the question of how we can improve the system of dust policy in the future, which many Members have also asked for. A third theme concerns drinking water and a fourth theme GenX. Finally, I will address a number of questions which do not really belong in the aforementioned blocks and which therefore fall under the category of others. First of all, the people who live around the factory. I would then like to start with a quote that was in the general newspaper last week. "We must assume that we all have PFOA in our bodies. As residents, we didn't ask for it. We didn't order it." That quote from a resident, as it was in the paper, I would like to endorse. This person is right. Activities in your environment should not lead to an undesirable change in your body and certainly not to health effects. When the RIVM last year reported that residents of Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht may have received too much PFOA for years, I found it of the utmost importance for those people to get more clarity on a number of issues. What effect does the substance have? Are the calculations consistent with actual human measurements? Was there or isn't there too much of that dust in the drinking water? What are the properties of the alternative to PFOA, namely GenX? What about the employees? I would like to explain these studies and to indicate what we have learned from them. I can give my opinion briefly on two of the subjects. We have just completed an investigation, the sample you mentioned among 382 people, and that actually confirms the conclusions that RIVM drew last year. It then made correct assumptions and used a calculation model that gives results that match what we're measuring now. There is another study, which Mr von Martels asked for, namely the examination of the workers' side. In addition, as you know, significantly higher concentrations of PFOA have been measured. The Chamber will be informed separately by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I understand that this research will come around the summer, but I am afraid to say exactly what month that is. That is because the investigation is independent and we always put the diligence of that investigation above speed. So as soon as we know more about it, we will, of course, let the Chamber know. She will also be given that investigation as soon as it is available, with a policy juice appreciation on the part of the cabinet. The blood work we've seen today is about the canvassing of local residents. This shows that even now, five years after the substance is no longer used, higher concentrations have been measured in people who have lived very long and close to the plant. We are also now sure that people who live a little further away or for example lived in the area for a shorter period of time, the concentrations are on average low. They do not deviate in average from what is found elsewhere in the country in humans. As I said, 382 blood samples were taken. In three individuals, the measured concentration is above the limit value of 89 nanograms per milliliter of blood serum derived by the RIVM last year. In the past, these concentrations will indeed have been higher. So high that they could possibly also give health effects. Even now, we cannot exclude that from everyone. The RIVM mentions as effects especially negative changes in cholesterol, liver enzymes or birth weight. Even though RIVM indicates that these effects are limited, both in terms of the change that occurs and in terms of the type of effect, the result gives rise to unrest and concern among the people who it concerns. I understand that, because this is just a substance that doesn't belong in your body. It is important for people who have now heard the blood count that if they have any concerns or questions, they should be able to use them somewhere. The municipalities of Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht will organise an information meeting shortly. People can also go to the GGD or to the GP if they need it. In addition, I think it is important that we answer questions. If we can, we really have to answer those questions. RIVM suggests that there are reasons why blood concentrations are now higher in some residents than in others. RIVM asked for that investigation. I have said that I would very much like this to be carried out, together with the province and the municipalities concerned. That's not a health impact study. The purpose of the investigation is to look at possible links between all those people with higher concentration, which may give us some more proof of why. Where does this possibly come from? It's about 18 people. The purpose of the study is to examine whether there is an explanation for these blood levels by means of a personal conversation with the people with higher concentrations, i.e. more than 21 nanograms. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether this follow-up study could be extended. Can we open that up to everyone? Again, the follow-up study is not a health study. It is not intended to personally assess the effect on health in individuals. When people have health problems, they're already in the picture. They can, of course, also go to the GGD or the GP. This is an investigation that is being done to find an explanation for that concentration. If the sample shows that more people need to be involved on scientific grounds, this must be done. However, it is not up to us to decide from here. I didn't think it was wise to intervene from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	A number of members want to interrupt. Mr Van Aalst was the first to have a question in this block. I asked him if he thought it was a problem to wait for all the information the Secretary of State wanted to give about the investigations and then ask a question at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	I have one more question to answer in that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	I ask the Members whether they agree that the Secretary of State should answer that last question. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst, then to Mr Dijkstra and then to Mrs Van Eijs. I see that they agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	The question was how the Chamber will be taken into account in the results of the ongoing investigations. As I said, I will of course pass it on to the Chamber as soon as they are available. An AO External Security is planned at the end of June. My idea is to send a letter to the Chamber before that on the progress of the whole dossier. Anything known will be given to the Chamber prior to that general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	How does the Secretary of State explain the higher blood levels in people who have had an individual test carried out? What can the Secretary of State tell us about RIVM's refusal to include these higher values in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	I do not recognize the image that Mr Van Aalst sketches. In my opinion, RIVM has just indicated that it wants to carry out more extensive research into the group of people with an explicit higher value in order to be able to answer its first question exactly. What's a possible explanation for these abnormal blood counts? So the investigation is ongoing. It is important to take the test literally, because in the stories of some of those people we may be able to discover a pattern. But that's really up to science. It is my impression that the RIVM is completely open. The Chamber also gets all the tests, because I'm sending everything we get to the Chamber. It's a well-known fact. Of course, people get their own messages. I therefore agree with Mr Van Aalst, who said that transparency is important for trust. At least I thought that was what Mr Van Aalst said. I can only endorse those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	It is nice that we can include the next report in the general discussion on external security. It is also fairly close; it is to be seen. My question is about the sample. That sample is scientifically well designed. I see certain dates about before and after. I see distances: the closer, the more risk and so on. I believe that this sample is a good one, but 382 people have been invited to it. Only those people had blood taken from them, while there were many more people living in the area. A lot of new messages have also come out, especially in recent times. I imagine there are people who say: I didn't participate in the sample at the time, but I'm curious what those values look like with me. Is there any possibility for those who apply now to have those values measured? Can these people walk along with that, so we can go wider than the 382?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	These are key issues on which local authorities agree with their GGDs and RIVM. So they have made these agreements and they have done so for a reason. For example, when people have health problems, they are generally diagnosed. You can imagine, for example, that a lower birth balance is also observed in the hospital. When people have higher cholesterol levels, they often see it when they undergo an examination. It was done locally with the GGD and the RIVM as it was done, because it was clearly representative enough for the research that was done. So it was deliberately chosen not to let everyone in. That is not up to me and, if I may say so, it is not up to you either. It's really a trade-off, where the RIVM, who does the research, has to go first. I would like to say that people can, of course, go to their GP and GP if they have complaints or health complaints or if they are worried. That's not the point. This question of whether or not it should be extended is about the research as such and I think you should leave it to the RIVM. The RIVM must make that assessment in consultation with the GGDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	One of the reasons why we are having this debate is the concerns of the local people. They're looking at us. We are debating this now. Those people want their concerns taken away. The VVD is happy that we do not decide on this at this level and leave it to the GGDs on the ground, but we do not want too many thresholds for the people who are now worried and therefore want such a blood test. I don't know exactly what the cost is. I thought about 300 euros, but I don't want someone who feels insecure and wants a test like that to run against that cost. The cost must not be an obstacle, because it is about people's health and our duty to remove anxiety. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	I also think that people should not worry unnecessarily, so we agree on that in any case. I believe that both the local authorities and the GGDs agree. For this reason, they also organise an information meeting for people and there is therefore the opportunity to go to the GP or to the GGD's and to talk about it. But that is different from broadening the research that is being done in advance to gather scientific facts. If people have individual concerns and want a check, that is really something other than saying: we are going to do a very large population survey and everyone has to come forward. In fact, that's the way we're getting in the way of RIVM. I'm trying to be very precise. We must continue to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	I understand the point made by the Secretary of State that she does not want to interfere with scientific research and that she does not want the results to be questioned. But what if you live there, when you've only just heard about it, when you're worried and you want to participate, because you've had a blood test done at the GP and it shows that you have a higher blood count, and then you're told you can't participate, because that's not scientifically justified? Isn't it possible to give these people access to that study in a scientifically sound way? Or perhaps the question is what else the Secretary of State can offer these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	I'm trying to say it as accurately as I can. That investigation is not meant to determine the health damage. This is about the concentrations that are in the blood and it's about looking at the relationship with that factory. If people have health problems, they'll see it in the doctor's office. There they see that you have a higher cholesterol level or that babies have a lower birth weight. It is possible to go to an information meeting and ask questions to the GGD or RIVM, but that is something other than broadening the research, because that does not help an individual with those concerns. That person is not getting wiser, to put it bluntly, of participating in that investigation. That research has a different purpose. It is not the aim of an individual to look at the health damage, but rather to make the link between the emissions from the plant and the effects on people stronger. That is what the research is meant for, and that is why I say that we should not go through it, because it is in the interests of all those residents that it is as good an investigation as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	I understand that the research is not meant to see immediately which health complaints are present, and they also need to be dealt with immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	If the cholesterol level is too high or there is something else going on, then we also need to treat it immediately. But I can really imagine you thinking as a resident: let's get to the bottom of what's going on and let me walk along in all the studies that are out there, maybe not even for myself, but for clarity, also for the future. After all, that stuff is still in the environment. What's the deal with that? Is it really bad if I lived close or not? I can very well imagine that residents, even though it is not useful for themselves, still want to participate in that investigation. Isn't there a way to get these people to join us and take them a little bit more seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	This has nothing to do with not taking these people seriously, and it would be bad if we started radiating that it did. The fact that RIVM proposes it that way and wants to do it exactly this way and not otherwise is based on serious considerations. For RIVM it is important to do that research in a certain way. If people have individual concerns, they really need to go to the doctor and ask further questions about it. Those information meetings are organised for this purpose. If it has been established by science that it makes sense to do it this way and not to investigate a much larger group of people for the follow-up research, but rather a much smaller one, then we really must respect that. This is precisely what RIVM does in the interests of the entire population. The RIVM wants to put a few things in a very precise picture. And that is just another thing than responding to an individual who has become worried, which I understand very well. The problem is that research at that individual level does not remove that concern in any way, because it is a different type of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	I would like to challenge the Secretary of State to be more specific about that report by the Minister for Social Affairs which would have been published earlier and would have been presented to the House of Representatives. The Secretary of State says, "It's probably coming in the summer." Is that a promise? Or an expectation? What is the reason why the publication has been considerably delayed? Could the Secretary of State be a little more specific about that? What is the basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	No, I can't, and it's an expectation. I'm expecting it. And I'm not the one doing the investigation. That happens independently of us, and we have to wait and see. I do. As soon as the results are available, the Chamber will receive them; Mr von Martels knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	Yes, because the need for it is indeed great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	Because on the basis of the facts, of course, we can easily judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	I agree with Mr von Martels, of course. And since it concerns the people who also worked in the factory, it is even more important, because, of course, much higher concentrations have been found in them. So, like Mr Von Martels, I am anxiously waiting for the results of that investigation. So I understand the importance of it, and I also understand that Mr von Martels is underlining it here. There's no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	In this debate, it was a question of the cost of research. My group has asked two questions on this matter which have not been answered so clearly. I asked if Chemours would also contribute to the costs that the government must incur for the information meetings and for research. And are citizens compensated for all their expenses throughout this journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	I missed those questions. That could be entirely up to me. By the way, it is usually the case that if we allow independent research to be carried out, we do not allow companies to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	I understand that the company does not pay the research directly, but there are expenses for information meetings and expenses associated with the whole journey, for example, and there are citizens' expenses. The money for that has to come from somewhere. The company could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	As far as I know, the local authorities or the government bear the cost of RIVM's research. Let me also say quite frankly that this is the least of our concerns at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	My question is a bit in line with that of GroenLinks, but it is not about costs. What is the role of the causer of this suffering, of DuPont/Chemours in this process at all? Does the company participate in these information meetings? Does it know his position in this? What will the Secretary of State, possibly in cooperation with local authorities, do to involve Chemours?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	I come to speak in detail about the role of the company in my upcoming blocks. I understand the company is involved in the information meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	The Secretary of State is now continuing with the next block, which is about the substance policy. I suggest to the members that we let the Secretary of State answer the coherent questions first. They may then ask questions. I see that Members agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	(NL) Mr President, I come to the substance policy. The House is right to ask whether we can avoid a situation like this in the future. Mr Dijkstra said that I think it is the sharpest. So we are talking about a situation in which we find that there has been too high exposure in the past. The follow-up question is: should we not be sharper in issuing emission permits? There's no way to eliminate 100% of the risks. But in the letter on the substance policy that I sent to the Chamber in October of last year, I outlined two routes for structural improvement of the substance policy. After all, I agree with the Chamber that structural improvements are needed. There is a European track and a national track. The European track is about REACH. That is the European regulation on the registration of chemicals. REACH will be in force for 10 years next month. In those ten years we have actually gained a lot of knowledge about a lot of substances. That's knowledge we just didn't have before. The profits of this registration regulation can now be seen by the Court at GenX; I will go into this more comprehensively later. In the past, we would have known very little about this. Now a risk analysis could be carried out fairly quickly, because mandatory investigations were carried out before the substance was allowed to be used. The increase in knowledge also leads, of course, to the fact that, in some cases, we have now found that we have not done well in the past. I am looking at Mr Laçin, because I have had a lot of good debates on asbestos with his predecessor, Mr Smaling. That's one of those substances that we haven't known about for a long time. REACH is now making a significant catch-up, but it is not really enough. The proposal I sent to the Chamber in October is that we should actually speed up the building up of dust dossiers and also improve the quality of the dossiers. I have already indicated at that time that there are a number of subjects on which I think acceleration is the most important. These are the hormone-distorting substances, the nanomaterials and the combination effects of substances. Nationally, of course, we want to go to a clean and safe Netherlands, as Mrs Kröger rightly said. The action we need to take is to work together to get a better overview of actual emissions, including those that are not subject, for example, to a European registration requirement. These may as well be substances of concern. I am working with RIVM and the competent authorities to see if we can get an earlier picture of where possible emissions of substances of concern exist in substantial quantities. I hope to clarify this very quickly, because I can then start a pilot in the course of this year in order to get a picture of such a worrying substance or group of dust. In addition, we have noted that it is not always easy for the competent authority. Indeed, inclusion of authorisation requirements for chemicals requires sound knowledge from the competent authority. That is why it is important that the six so-called Brzo environment services take over the permits and supervision for the larger companies. This creates more critical mass for them to be able to handle the complex questions. This year, the latest environmental services will actually transfer their Brzo tasks to the Brzo environmental service designated for their region. As I said, an AO External Security is scheduled for 28 June. I think it is a good thing that we are sending a progress letter, including the national and European railways, and that we are informing the Chamber about this. I think that the situation around Dordrecht and Sliedrecht has, of course, been a wake-up call for many people, including for inspections, licence holders and drivers who sign a licence. Mr Laçin asked: can we strengthen the competent authority so that it can more easily tighten up a licence? The idea of a revision is indeed very positive. Already the competent authority has an opportunity to tighten up a licence, an automatic change. But it begins with the fact that the Empire is not the competent authority here. So we do not issue the permits. At the same time, you can see that especially in the Environmental Law revision is really getting easier. I believe that Mr Laçin is insisting that it is not just a few changes because a chimney has been moved somewhere, but that the competent authority can also unilaterally force an amendment to a licence. It's gonna be easier in the Environment Act, and that's important. What we're seeing now is that the county is working on the permit. We're good with her. My people have held administrative consultations on this matter on several occasions. For example, we facilitate this through the use of RIVM, in order to provide the province with a basis for tightening up the permit. Has DuPont been addressed to moral responsibility? Deputy States of South Holland have had a number of talks with the company in front of my people. GS is the competent authority. We support GS. That is why we were present at one of those talks. That is good, because it is of the utmost importance that companies take responsibility. Mr Von Martels asked whether PFOA's admission went well. The tricky thing is that the product was already on the market before there was a registration obligation at all. After all, it only came about ten years ago, with the introduction of REACH. In the meantime, the substance is no longer produced. Therefore, at present no registration requirement is in force. I come to the block of drinking water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	We now have ten years of REACH, where substances are assessed on the basis of safety at European level. This has resulted in PFOA, a substance that was dangerous, being banned and no longer used by 2012. That's obvious. But now we have its successor, GenX. That's actually a combination of two technical substances, a 902- and a 903 variant, which mixes you into a new fabric. This substance is difficult to place on the REACH list of very worrying substances. How do we deal with that? After all, it is not one substance, it is several substances in a process. Is that gonna take ten years before we get the results? Or do we know next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	That's a very separate block. I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	That's what we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	I understand that the Secretary of State will send a letter on the next steps in substance policy. I did not hear clearly whether our request for an assessment of the impact of substances on drinking water quality, which is currently under review, could be taken into account in this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	I'll get to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	That too is a separate block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	It is true that the enforceable revision permit will probably be in the Environment Act in 2019. But it could also be later. Why would we wait for that? Should we not already take measures to give the local authority more room to adapt or tighten permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think that's a very good question, so I've asked my own people. Indeed, the Environment Act is not yet in force. I've asked if there should be another emergency bill. The problem is: by the time it has entered into force, the Environment Act has also entered into force. That is not necessarily the solution. What we have done now is to apply maximum pressure, because sometimes something that is liquid under political pressure is also good for building up with the province. In the meantime, we have to do that. Because I did explore whether we should do something earlier. But these routes do not lead to a faster result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I would like to challenge the Secretary of State, myself and the Chamber to get to work more quickly, because the residents of Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht are not very helpful here. We must ensure that we can intervene if something happens again in a few months or a year. We must ensure that we do not have the same problem again that the province does something and that something is settled at European level and that we cannot do so much. In the end, this is of very little use to the workers and the people around them. So my question remains: can we not look at it faster and can we not come up with a solution sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	That's what I'm going into at the block of GenX. Let me start with the fact that we agree. My reasoning is also that 2019 is beautiful, but that it is not an answer for the people now. If the province wants to tighten up that permit, the answer now is that we need to stick together to make sure that this is necessary. There's no way she can do that unless she does it on the basis of evidence. If there is no doubt, the province has no reason to intervene. At GenX you can see that the precautionary principle, which Mrs Kröger and Mrs Kuik spoke about, has actually already been applied in practice by RIVM. That's my answer to the residents, too. Mr Laçin's message is unisono: let us stand next to and in front of the people. I agree with him from the bottom of my heart. I agree. I'm sure the county will agree. So we must stick together and not play each other the wrong way, as Mr Van Aalst rightly said. We need to work together and, in this case, hands-on, very pragmatic, without laws or regulations that have already been amended, do as much as possible as is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	That's a very nice coat rack to the next question. The Secretary of State says that we need to work together as much as possible to prevent this. We have all read that DuPont has been aware of the danger of this substance for years. The company says it reported this to the government. If we want to act together, how is it possible that we have apparently closed our eyes to this problem all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	There's a few things to say about that. Firstly, this substance has been banned since 2012. So it's not like we've closed our eyes in recent years. Secondly, there was no regulation for a very long time, which unfortunately made it possible that some things did not go well. There is a third point, and I would like to say something about that. I also read the newspaper this morning and saw the information. Actually, I can only give one answer. I'm hoping and expecting, actually, I'm sure the D.A.'s gonna care too. That's important, because with that, this case is actually under the courts. I understand that incredibly well. However, it means that I have to look out from my side to say something about it, with which I cycle the course of justice that the residents want. We shouldn't do that. When I read something like this, God hears me, but I won't say anything else about it, because I think it should have its course of action. But I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	Somehow I understand that, but the Chamber does have the right to know whether or not we, as a supervisory authority, were aware of the danger of these substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yes, the Chamber is entitled to that, but the problem is that there was no policy at all for a very long time. After that, when that policy came, that substance was banned at some point. That was in 2012. I think it's important to be careful. I don't know the whole history by heart either, but that has to be addressed. I agree with Mr Van Aalst. That will certainly happen, even in a lawsuit that will come at some point. We've only had a substance registration policy for ten years. This substance has been banned for five years. So it is not that nothing has been done in recent years. However, I believe, as I wrote in my letter, that people have been exposed to, as we now know, too high concentrations for too long, even years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	The Secretary of State just, also understandable, quickly crossed an essential point for D66. She indicated that she was working on an inventory of other places where dangerous substances might still be scattered at the moment. It is very important for D66 that we avoid being back here in five years, because something seems to have gone wrong again. Can the Secretary of State explain how we are going to be sure that certain regulations do not fall apart while we are waiting for new regulations that will work in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	No, that has nothing to do with regulation, but with substance files. Since the REACH Directive, we have been working to identify not hundreds but thousands of substances and their potential harmful effects. I want us to accelerate this internationally, in other words at European level, especially for a number of categories where there are potentially the most risks. I also want us in the Netherlands to further strengthen the way in which we inspect and monitor in order to improve licensing and monitoring. I announced those two tracks last October. This includes making a kind of risk map for the Netherlands, not only for GenX technology for example, because it is only used in this factory, but also with potential other plants with other substances. The aim is to get a better picture of and with each other, so that we know where they are and whether we all have a good idea about that. Over the course of the year, we want to start some sort of pilot. My idea is to give more information to the Chamber in June, when I am a little further away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs? No? I would like to give the floor to Mr Dijkstra for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	The Secretary of State just said something that's pretty important for this debate. I've spoken before about 32 years of overruns. That's what's in the pieces. The Secretary of State has just concluded that REACH legislation is in force for 10 years. The documents go back to 1998. But since it's under the judge, there's been a lawsuit filed by neighbors against the company, we can't handle the whole guilt question in the Chamber. Why didn't they ring the bell? Why is that? So the Secretary of State actually said: I cannot answer that question here, because it is under the judge, and he has to judge it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yes. What I can do is be as transparent as possible about our role and what we know. That is what we need to support the course of justice with. But what I can't do is make an independent judgment about it now. If I did, I'd be walking right in front of the residents who filed the lawsuit. I really shouldn't do that, and I hope you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	No, neither will the VVD, but is it possible to give a certain chronology, for example from the competent authority, the province, which makes it clear what has happened and what is known from certain years? The newspaper writes a lot; those 32 years are also very recognizable to me. In the eighties we didn't take it so close, in the nineties we still didn't, but we did. In order to perform our controlling task properly, to know our responsibilities and to learn lessons from them, it is useful for us to have a transparent overview of the chronology, which is also available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	I will also have to consult with the local authorities. Because not all the information is with us. I'll see what I can do and then I'll tell you in that letter if we can deliver anything, and if so, what then. I understand the question Mr Van Aalst actually asked about it, so I will see how far I can get. But I do depend on others, because of course some of the information is not with us. By the way, I have to say for the record that PFOA has not yet been banned. In the slipstream, I just said that by mistake. It's just not in use in the Netherlands anymore. We're trying to get it banned. Since 2012, it has not been used. Because we shouldn't have someone later saying that that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	That's good for the Acts. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Arissen for her question. I also see Mr Van Aalst at the interrupting microphone. Then we move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	I have another question in addition to that of the VVD. We wonder if we will not look at foreign countries at all. In the United States it became clear in 1961 that DuPont knew that PFOA/C8 was harmful to the people who received it with their drinking water. There was no policy at the time, but does the Secretary of State not think that, if in the 1960s it was known how harmful it was, we can now say that it is harmful and that citizens deserve our protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	That last one's in my letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	Enough, Mrs. Arissen? Yeah? Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst in this small block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment on the state of play. I'd like to give you something. This concerns the point where the PVV called: the blackbird between the different governments. I hope this is not going to happen again, when I hear the Secretary of State say: I do not know what I can or cannot get from the province or municipality. This is crucial information that we all need. It's under the judge, and we can't see everything. I do not hope that the blackmail between the authorities will start again and that this will prevent the provision of information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	That is by no means the issue, but I do think that everyone should know which debate is to be held. In part, the supervision of the government lies with the Chamber, but in part also with the States of South Holland, for example. Everyone must remain in their role, but from that role they will then work together, and that is what I agree with Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the people. For those people, it doesn't matter at all whether it's a secretary of state or a deputy who thinks something. They just think everyone should work together. I agree with Mr Van Aalst on this point. I'll be on the block about GenX. DuPont and Chemours phased out PFOA in 2012. The concentrations of this substance in residents will therefore continue to decrease. However, many people are right to ask whether the alternative, referred to as GenX, is safe. Some Members have asked me written questions about this. I already gave answers last year: I'll have RIVM look into it. The Chamber received the RIVM's report at the end of last year. This showed that for residents no effect of emissions to the air from the factory is expected. However, there are uncertainties, for example about whether GenX actually disappears from the body faster than PFOA. Therefore, RIVM used an additional safety margin in the risk assessment. You could call that a precautionary principle. That way, we'll know for sure that neighbors are protected. For the discharge to water there appeared to be reason to tighten up. It concerned the discharge permit that Chemours already had from the province. On the basis of information on the guide value, the submitted opinion of the drinking water company and the advice of the water managers, including Rijkswaterstaat, the province has further reduced the discharge of GenX substances. I would stress that the concentrations of GenX substances in drinking water are low and therefore there is no risk to public health. This has also been emphasised by the drinking water company. The efforts of the province, Rijkswaterstaat and drinking water companies aim to maintain this situation in the future. Drinking water is, after all, a first need for life. It just has to be safe and stay. From its system responsibility, therefore, Minister Schultz will continue to monitor the granting of licences. Where necessary, consideration will also be given to further tightening of discharge requirements or to requirements for concentrations at, for example, drinking water intake points. On 15 June a.s. there is a general consultation Water. If the Chamber wishes, she can discuss the progress with the Minister. Mrs Kröger asked: shouldn't we just put a moratorium on GenX? If you make a moratorium, that actually means you're withdrawing the permit. The license holder is the province here, not the ministry. The company must therefore close down; Mr Dijkstra has already mentioned it. If you're gonna do that, apart from the fact that you're facing huge damage claims, you're gonna have to have a very strong position. If scientific evidence is missing or missing, you don't have that title. This is about proof that GenX and the discharge are actually causing health damage. That evidence hasn't been provided yet. However, an enormous additional safety margin has been taken into account in the investigation. That is what has been done. But if the province announces in advance to stop, our estimate is that it won't keep that going. A precautionary principle also calls for doubt, and thus a form of support and knowledge that justifies that doubt. What we have done the other way around, at least the RIVM, is to take a huge extra margin in this investigation, so as to be sure. I'm getting to the block of drinking water now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	Before you move to the next block, Mrs Kröger has a question. I was just awaiting the end of the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	I have a question about the interpretation of the concept of 'precautionary principle'. We understand that GenX as a substance may indeed pose a risk to public health, and that RIVM indicates that there is currently insufficient research to establish indicative water quality standards. That would require more research. In fact, I hear the Secretary of State say that the precautionary principle means that discharges may continue until it is certain that there is a danger to drinking water. As far as we are concerned, that is very unwise, given the history, the uncertainty, the distrust of residents and the fact that this company has a track record on this subject and people have run a lot of risks. For the sake of clarity, we are calling for a moratorium on discharges. That would mean that the company would stop the discharges until the investigation, which, I understand, will come in March 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	If the world were entirely as Mrs Kröger now suggests, I would understand her point. But it's something else. There's been an investigation. The province then acted as well. The province modified the permit, with our help. Rijkswaterstaat advised. It is now being considered whether this permit should be tightened even further. So there has already been action. The RIVM then said that it would also like to do follow-up research. So that's what we're doing. But Mrs Kröger is asking me to say, on the basis of everything that we have now, that there should be no more discharge, point. The consequence is, in fact, that you withdraw the permit. That's gonna have big consequences, and you're gonna have to keep that decision going. The estimate is that this is not sustainable, apart from the fact that it is the province that should take this decision and not us. So the research that is now being done is important. And there has already been research, which has led to changes in the permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	Finalizing, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	That sounds as if the precautionary principle is being implemented in such a way that it must first be proved that it is really very wrong, and then measures are being taken to ensure that people are not exposed to the highly toxic substance. That's where our question comes from. Should not water quality be taken much more clearly into account in the granting of permits? As long as it's not really clip-and-ready that there are no dangers, you don't have to dispose of substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	I still have a whole magazine on drinking water. I suggest I discuss that with the Chamber first. Then we can see if Mrs Kröger can still find out what she thinks. Because I think reality is a bit more nuanced, if you'll forgive me. Last year we sent research results from the drinking water company Oasen and RIVM. This showed that PFOA has been in the drinking water that is extracted downstream, but not in concentrations that could lead to health effects. That is a conclusion based on last year's RIVM derived safe concentration of up to 89 nanograms in the body per milliliter. Moreover, if this limit were to be changed in the future, this could lead to a different conclusion, but with the knowledge of today, it is therefore concluded that there was no risk to public health. The Chamber then asked Minister Schultz to improve water quality in our country. There is currently a joint effort by the relevant authorities and civil society organisations in a deltabreed approach. This has led to the Delta approach Water Quality and Freshwater. There was also a declaration of intent on 16 November last year. The Minister and I see that emerging, not yet legally regulated substances are sometimes difficult to tackle, especially in relation to the supply of drinking water. That is why we are now working on a structural approach to emerging substances. This approach will be adopted before the summer and should include clear agreements and frameworks to help public authorities and drinking water companies to identify and address unknown, unstandardised substances. The GenX substances are an example of this. I think this approach will help to further improve our water quality, because that is just extremely important. Mr von Martels' question was: is the limit value GenX in drinking water included in the European debate? The point is, there is no limit value. There's only a health guide value. It was determined by the RIVM. We certainly share this guideline value in the European debate on substances in drinking water, including the review of the European directive which is about to start. Mrs Kröger's question was whether we should include a drinking water requirement in all permits. That is already the case. Article 2 of the Drinking Water Act contains a duty of care. It says: "Control bodies shall ensure the sustainable security of public drinking water supply." This already applies to the provinces and it is happening now in this revision permit. Mrs. Kuik asked: what has been investigated about PFOA and drinking water and what are you still investigating? I told you, RIVM has derived a guide value for the maximum concentration of GenX substances in drinking water. RIVM also investigated the possibility of setting the water quality standard for GenX substances. That standard is necessary, among other things, to determine whether people's long-term consumption of fish from the river remains safe. You have that report. In consultation with the European Chemicals Agency and the German Institute for Safety and Health, it was decided to have the European dust evolution of the GenX substances carried out jointly by RIVM and BAuA. So that's the Germans, to put it bluntly. That evaluation will run until March 2018. On behalf of the province of Zuid-Holland, TNO has carried out further research into the historical emission of PFOA. That was before 1998. The conclusion was then that emissions in the 1990s were about five tonnes a year. On 3 April the European Council noted that it had no objection to a ban on the production and marketing of PFOA and its use in products. It is now up to the Commission to adopt that ban. I expect, and also hope, that this will happen in the short term. My final question in the 'other' block is a question from Mr von Martels, namely what is happening with regard to the treatment of PFOA in the Stockholm Convention. The proposal to add PFOA to the UN Convention on persistent organic compounds is under discussion. The decision to add this substance to the UN POP Convention is expected in 2019. The examination of the proposal is on schedule. This means that the substance will not only be dealt with globally in the EU, where the Commission will soon decide. To be honest, that seems more than fair. End of input first term!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	My question is about the "drinking water" block. The Secretary of State rightly states that Article 2 includes a duty of care for drinking water. However, the drinking water companies currently indicate that the quality of drinking water is not sufficiently taken into account in the authorisation process. They are concerned about this, and that is why my question to the Secretary of State is: how can we better include the quality of drinking water in the authorisation process? Could the Secretary of State perhaps outline an action plan to ensure that this is done better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	I have just talked about this in detail when I talked about the structural approach to emerging substances, which Minister Schultz is in charge of. I suggested that you discuss this with her on 15 June. It is precisely in cooperation with the drinking water companies and the licence providers that we are looking at how we can get even sharper on the wind here. It's a fair question, but it's being worked on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	Does the Chamber receive a sketch of this for general consultation, for example a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	I dare not say that; you must forgive me. I have to check, because this is, of course, an area on which I am not in charge in the department itself. I can imagine that you will be hearing about this before the general consultation on 15 June. I'll have to check with my colleague. I don't know if there's a second term, but if there is, you'll hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	The PVV asked what the Secretary of State will do for the residents and the employees. Do we understand that this is limited to adopting the recommendations in the RIVM study?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	No, I don't think you're gonna be able to do anything about the government's efforts. In this case, we support the licence providers and the local authorities with an investigation by the RIVM. But, of course, we are also drawing from a number of lessons, for example for water policy in the broader sense. So we are doing a lot of things, which I have all mentioned, to ensure that these kinds of issues do not happen again in this way. In October last year, I also sent a letter to the Chamber on the changing policy on substances. Those are things that we are certainly doing. But there are different responsibilities, and I can't take them from others. I'd like to help drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	In conclusion, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	Is the Secretary of State prepared to tell us in writing what exactly she is going to do for these people in consultation with other governments? Because with the measures that she has just mentioned, I do not think that the people around us or the staff are getting very much better. They want to know exactly what the Empire, or any government, is going to do for them in the situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	You've already got all that in writing. The residents have received letters. There's gonna be an information meeting. So I do not know very well whether or not you are going to be specific yourself, and I can tell you what more you expect than is currently being organised through the various authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	You are being challenged, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	I'll take that entrapment. On your part, indeed, only the info session comes. Only information sessions, or a catch-up session with the GP, are not enough for a live-in. I expect a little more from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	Are you coming with measures towards Chemours? Are we gonna have a conversation, are you gonna talk to those people more, are you gonna force other governments to take action to talk to those people? Who's all at the table, there's gonna be monthly sessions? I mean, there are plenty of options to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think you just missed two hours of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	That sounded kind of nice. The debate was for us about past, present and future. As far as the past is concerned, the question of guilt is under the jurisdiction of the judge, so there is really nothing we can do about it now. As far as the present is concerned, it is particularly important to remove concerns from people. The Secretary of State has carefully outlined what you can do in this area, knowing that we have no direct solutions here either. But the most interesting thing for policy makers is to look to the future. Lessons have been learned, and the Secretary of State has mentioned a number of points that we take with us. My question is: to what extent are the current system and the tools we have in relation to the competent authority really sufficient? In my view, it is, but can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	The only point I found, with Mr Laçin, that I need it, is the revision that can be enforced by the competent authority. It's in the Environment Act, but it's not in force in that way. But it's provided for by the Chamber. You can't say there are other things on top of that, but it would have been nice if that law had already been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	So the conclusion is: we have enough teeth to prevent and intervene in the future if necessary? So we will not stand here in ten years' time and say: had we done anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	Again, it is also important that much more research is carried out into all kinds of substances that are less in the picture now. That is, of course, one of the elements of my approach. That is why I became a little more focused in the direction of Mr Van Aalst, although it was not to him personally. That is precisely what is crucial. Can we always see all the risks coming in advance? No. Can we change the policy in such a way that we are much more alert and that we can also apply the precautionary principle much better? Yeah, I think so. That requires a lot from us, but also from the Chamber. REACH is a registration regulation that sometimes does not just have friends, but it is an incredibly important regulation. We just need to do it much more, much faster and more effectively. I would very much like to do that, because I think that is what the people in the country need. This will not be a solution for the residents now, but it will help to prevent other groups of residents from coming up with the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	Thank you. This brought an end to the first term of office. I see that there is a need for a second term. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I have two motions. The first is to be served together with the members of Mr Kuik and Mr Van Eijs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas protecting our drinking water is essential;]] [[Whereas the cases with PFOA, GenX and.b. have shown that the effects of discharges on the supply of drinking water have not been taken into account or are not sufficiently taken into account in the granting of the authorization;]] [[Whereas drinking water companies call on the competent authority to take account of the impact on water quality when granting permits, but the current legislation and regulations are not sufficiently monitoring this;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the effects on the public drinking water supply can be taken into account when authorising the release of chemicals into the water;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber by 1 September 2017 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM cannot conclude whether the exposure of GenX substances poses a risk to residents because additional studies are needed;]] [[noting that RIVM cannot conclude what the discharges of GenX substances have an impact on the environment, inter alia because it accumulates in fish;]] [[noting that drinking water companies indicate that they are not equipped for the purification of these substances in order to ensure the quality of drinking water in the long term;]] [[having noted that the European Chemicals Agency has asked the German BAuA and the Dutch RIVM to carry out further research on the GenX substances and to report on them in 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to grant a moratorium on the discharge and emissions of GenX substances until the European dust assessment has been carried out and it is clear what the health and environmental impacts are,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	I understand the second motion, on a moratorium, yes. However, the Secretary of State stated in her reply in the first term that a moratorium actually means shutting down the factory. In fact, there will be claims for damages and the moratorium will not stand in court. What is the value of adopting and implementing this motion now, if you are then flagged back by the judge? How does GroenLinks view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	The motion doesn't call for the plant to shut down. The motion calls for a moratorium on discharge. Then the factory can look at how this can be overcome at that time. We are dealing here with a situation in which a company has created a lot of unrest, uncertainty and an unsafe situation over the long term. In view of the precautionary principle, I think it really needs to be clear what the consequences of this substance are before further discharges are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	In conclusion, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	The conclusion is that there's gonna be a lawsuit. With all the costs and the business of that. This motion is rather symbolic and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out in my first term, we must ensure that all those who are currently concerned, whose trust in the company and in the government has been severely damaged, feel that they are being taken seriously from now on. For D66, first of all, it is important to take care of residents. That is also the point where I expect action from the Secretary of State at the moment. I see that she takes this issue seriously. For example, D66 is pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that he is serious about identifying where there is still work in the Netherlands on potentially hazardous substances. That is how we are getting a much clearer picture of all of this. In the end, we all don't want us back here in a few years. I look forward to the information that is coming our way for the AO External Security. In which the Secretary of State reassured me less, the question is whether residents who are now concerned by the results of the investigation but have not previously applied for testing is now being proactively given the possibility of having a blood test. If I lived there, only black-and-white would see that my blood levels would be okay to take away my unrest. In order to ensure that this is done properly, I would nevertheless like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a sample of 382 persons shows that even five years after the cessation of emissions, higher PFOA blood values have been established for 18 persons than expected;]] [[having noted that RIVM derived a health limit value of 89 nanograms per milliliter in 2016 and that it may be adjusted downwards;]] [[Considering that the model calculation of the RIVM from 2016 was confirmed, which showed that the average resident near the factory in the past had a blood value of 90 to 130 nanograms per milliliter, potentially leading to major health risks;]] [[calls on the government to take the concerns of all residents seriously by proactively offering blood tests to all those who wish to do so, in cooperation with local authorities, so that no chance, however small, is missed to identify increased values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr. Chairman. I also have two motions. I'd almost feel guilty if I filed the first motion, now that I hear the Secretary of State's fervent desire to do something right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas provinces as competent authorities do not have the possibility to require companies to renew permits at the time of better technical possibilities for environmental protection and environmental quality developments;]] [[Considers that several environmental crises show that the provinces need additional tools to ensure a safe living environment;]] [[In anticipation of the introduction of the Environment Act, the government requests, in accordance with the amendment adopted by Mr Smaling (33962, No. 114), to enable enforceable revision licences to be made available immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas EU legislation provides that companies in the chemical sector themselves assess whether the use of new chemicals is safe or not, before registering them with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA);]] [[noting that the information provided by companies is often limited and is not independently audited, with all possible risks;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, the amendment of the system for the authorisation of chemicals, so that independent research is carried out prior to the placing on the market of new substances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-40]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mr. Chairman. We too would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. We have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the discharge and release of chemicals may have harmful effects on humans, animals, nature and the environment;]] [[noting that international chemical companies often enter into negotiations with local authorities on discharges and emissions of chemicals;]] [[noting that it has been demonstrated that chemical companies sometimes withhold knowledge about harmfulness of substances from economic considerations;]] [[noting that these chemical companies have a very long life in court cases involving both citizens and public authorities;]] [[Whereas the government must protect its citizens from the power of chemical companies and the potential danger of their actions to humans, animals, nature and the environment;]] [[Whereas the government has more power than local authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to put Chemours and other high-risk chemical companies under the competent authority of the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	How does Mrs Arissen come up with all these considerations? She puts the chemistry down in a certain way. We have a debate here on DuPont. That's not very good, that's clear. We've had a problem with that for years. But you can't put the whole chemical sector away as a sector that's not right. Mrs Arissen is doing that now. Where does it obtain its findings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	I'm not doing that at all. I'm just saying DuPont's been withholding data for years, as we know. Chemours is a spin-off by DuPont and GenX is a successor to C8. Zuid-Holland's deputy indicated that companies like Chemours have a very long life span in the field of lawsuits and claims. They have a large financial buffer against which public authorities and, in particular, citizens cannot compete sufficiently. The Animal Party considers it very important to be able to offer more protection to citizens and to support local authorities in these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Mr. Dijkstra, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	We absolutely must take care away, but you are now taking one company as an example. Your motion is general. You are all using formulations across the chemical sector, which is much larger than this single company. I don't think that's a healthy development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you. Mrs. Arissen, your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	Yes. I've got two more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the discharge of chemicals may have harmful effects on humans, animals, nature and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to include in its legislation, on the basis of the precautionary principle, only scientifically proven harmless substances may be discharged,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	No, take it easy. Perhaps next time you could consider making a little less lengthy motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mr. Chairman. I'll be back shortly on the first term. We would like to hear what the Secretary of State is actually going to discuss at the information meetings with the residents, so that they can see where they stand at those meetings. We also find it extraordinary that the Secretary of State, in response to the question of what was going on in the 1980s with regard to enforcement and supervision, is hiding behind the argument that there was no policy at the time. We find that quite remarkable. If we want to draw the conclusion that someone has been sleeping, it has been the supervisor in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs two minutes to review the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the questions raised in the second term and to give an opinion on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by answering Mrs Kröger's first-term question as to whether the Chamber is still being informed about the structural approach to emerging substances in drinking water. The answer is yes. This will be done prior to the AO that the Chamber has with Minister Schultz on 15 June in a letter. That's how I answered that question. I now come to my assessment of the eight motions tabled. The Kröger c.s. motion in piece No. 37 asks for an investigation into the authorisation of the chemicals to be discharged into water and how to take account of impacts on the public drinking water supply. That investigation is already taking place and the possibility of doing so already exists in the law. In that sense, this motion is superfluous, and since I do not think that unnecessary motions should be adopted, I advise her against it. Then I come to the motion on part No. 38 of Mr Kröger and Mr Arissen. It calls for a moratorium on the discharge of GenX. First of all, we have established that the competent authority is the province. In any case, I am not in a position to impose such a moratorium, because I am not the competent authority. If that's what you want, you'll have to file such a motion in the States of South Holland. You're saying that no more discharge means no closure of the company. I can tell you that no more discharge means that the GenX has to be taken care of, and that company can't do that now. For example, it will have to organise additional storage tanks. That doesn't solve anything. It does not mean that in the long term that GenX will not have to be removed. The point is that an adapted permit should be used, so that there is indeed a reduction in these emissions. That bet is there. We also support the competent authority. We supported it and we will continue to support it if it does. Again, I'm not the competent authority. For that reason alone, I can only advise against this motion. You are asking me to do something for which I have no authority. However, there is also a story behind it. Then I come to the motion on part No. 39 by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mrs Kröger. It has indicated that it still has a question on the first motion. You went pretty fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	The Secretary of State says that the motion on the structural approach is superfluous. It says that the role of drinking water companies and the guarantee of the quality of drinking water can be included in the authorisation. I understand that this will be discussed during the AO of 15 June. That's why I'm holding the motion until after that AO. Then there is the second motion and the question of whether or not the Secretary of State is the competent authority. It's not so much about the discharge permit. The point is that this substance should not end up in surface water. We understand that the Empire is the competent authority for that. In any case, we would like to see that examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (28089, No. 37). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	For the answer to the question, I look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	I cannot do that either, because there is a European regulation for this. I cannot unilaterally evade the rules of that regulation from the Netherlands. What we're doing is making the most of new research. We share that, also with ECHA, to ensure that everyone knows exactly what is happening. However, I cannot declare a moratorium on my own at national level where it can simply be challenged at European level. If that happens, I won't win. Then I come to the motion on part No. 39. A blood test for all, you might say. If people have concerns, they have to go to their doctor and then they can of course also ask for a blood test. This has been discussed for a long time by the RIVM and I understand that the expert aftercare committee has also been asked by the GGDs to advise them on this. There too, it has been said that you should not organise a comprehensive health study, because that is not effective and does not contribute to the objective pursued. If individual people are concerned, it is very important that they talk to their general practitioner. A blood test may then be decided. We're not gonna broaden the population survey for anyone reporting. That's not recommended by RIVM and experts. Apart from the fact that I am not in the lead here, those are the local authorities with their people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	What is the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	It is a custom that only the authors of the motion ask a question, but I see that Mr Dijkstra has an urgent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	Yes. I understand the Secretary of State's answer. However, can it guarantee that no one will fall apart, even though people are now healthy and want to make use of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	I will also bring it to the attention of the local authorities on your behalf, although I know that this is not necessary. They are aware of the importance of this. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 40, in which Mr Laçin says that, in anticipation of the Environment Act, we must immediately make it possible for enforceable revision permits to be issued. I must discourage the motion, but not because I do not like the idea, because I do. I have explored it and the route does not lead to an earlier enforceable decision, because I still have to come up with legislation. The Environment Act always runs ahead of what I'm gonna do, because it's already through the Chambers. I understand, but it will have no material effect if I now introduce a legislative process. That's the only option you can do this with. What I can do, though, is to make my commitment to you, which I promise is to put maximum pressure on the company, together with the province, when we consider it politically and contentally necessary. Even though you don't have the ability within the law to enforce something, you can use your authority to do it. I think that is a justified question and I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	I certainly agree with the second. We need to work together on this. However, I do not fully agree with the fact that it could not lead to an acceleration to allow for a enforceable revision licence immediately. Does the Secretary of State think it's impossible to introduce it earlier? Can't we go any faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	I have to change legislation for that. That just takes time and with the time it takes, you come to the introduction of the Environment Act. It's not gonna do us any good. The only thing we're getting anywhere with is that the deputy and I are pulling our hands together and, if necessary, getting together to the company and saying that it has to be different. I must discourage this motion, but if it is necessary to intervene, we will. They have to come from a good house to stop it, I say. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 41 which calls for the amendment of the system for the authorisation of chemicals where independent research is required first. I'm going to discourage this motion. Mr Laçin is asking for an amendment to the current REACH regulation, which has given us a great deal of information on thousands of substances in recent years. If we reverse the burden of proof and start independent investigations, this will lead to a huge delay. Companies have to supply the information and it is independently assessed, that is the core. If the research that is being provided is inadequate, then it turns out that it is. This puts the costs where they should be. Independence is determined by the assessment of the research, but not by the company itself. I agree that the butcher should not start to judge his own flesh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	I understand that at the moment there is not enough independent control of a particular substance before it enters the market, as in the food industry. That is what I have indicated in my contribution. I hear the Secretary of State say it will. Only a few questions arise. Why are we not considering a ban on PFOA until after decades? Why is there only now research, for example in Germany and here through the RIVM, into GenX? Why does it take years for something like this to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	That's a tricky question. Look, in the past, there was no substance policy at all. We started that at some point. Then we have refined it further and further. In recent years, science has advanced so far that we also know more and more, also things you had hoped you would have known much earlier. What we are advocating at European level is an acceleration in the raising of knowledge about all these substances. That's crucial. It all has to be much faster. But that is different from changing the division of responsibility, as you advocate. You're actually saying that everything has to be done by independents. That way, if someone wants something, they're always gonna have to pay other people's costs. I think that a company, if it wants a substance on the market, must prove that it is a good substance. This must then be assessed independently. It happens. After that, something can be applied. You're actually turning it around. I don't think that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	We certainly want to turn it around. Public health is more important to us than any delay in the introduction of a substance. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	I agree with you, but that is not the point. In her motion in part No. 42 asks Mrs Arissen to put Chemours and other high-risk chemical companies under the authority of the government. I'm dissuading the motion. This can only be done if the competent authority neglects the task. Then, as it is called, there will be inter-administrative supervision. That is not the issue here. It is also an unnecessary centralisation. We just changed the whole system. There's gonna be six Brzo services. It is very important that they function properly. We're on top of that. We look into it and, if necessary, we intervene. In the present situation this is not necessary, because the competent authority, I can assure Mrs Arissen, is sitting like a goat on the oat chest, and it must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	We understand that last year the competent authority passed from the municipalities to the provinces. But now the government of the province of Zuid-Holland tells RTL News that these chemists are so powerful, both abroad and in the Netherlands, and have so much leverage and financial buffers to go to court, that citizens can't actually stand up to them and that there is a lot of negotiation with local authorities about the extent to which hazardous substances can be emitted. The Party for Animals believes that more force is needed on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	In my view, this is precisely what the recent change in the system is intended for. The province isn't alone. I would like to emphasise that here. We hang out, if that's what it takes. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 43 in which Mrs Arissen calls for legislation to include only scientifically proven harmless substances in the precautionary principle. In the current system it is organized differently. What Mrs Arissen is asking for is a reversal of the burden of proof. We simply do not have that in our current regulations. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to advise against that. Then I come to the last Arissen motion in part No. 44 on the immediate prohibition of the release and discharge of GenX substances. That is actually the same motion as Mrs Kröger's motion in a slightly different form. That's what my judgment was dissuaded about. The precautionary principle is already in the law: Article 2 of the Drinking Water Act. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	Now the GS-college of South Holland, in response to questions from, I thought, the SGP on that precautionary principle, has said that it could be banned from the precautionary principle. In environmental law, the precautionary principle stems from the awareness that we live with very vulnerable ecosystems and we also have to deal with public health, which we must protect. It encourages action, even in cases where science has not yet decided whether or not a substance is harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	I do not have all the questions from the province of South Holland to the members of the States in a row; I have to say that honestly. Without being able to fully understand the context of that question and the answer to it, I find it very difficult to give an opinion on it now. But in general we have good contact with them and we help them to adjust the license to discharge GenX down. That's what they're doing now. We are doing further research which may allow them to adjust this further. We'll help them with that, too. If you'd like to do that completely differently, you're gonna get in the way of your regulations. If, as a national state, you unilaterally declare a moratorium on a substance which is not the case in the rest of Europe, then it will be very difficult and you will have an unsustainable case. That is why we are now conducting this investigation with the Germans and are trying to speed it up, because we want to have this discussed and sorted out at European level. So we are not sitting still, on the contrary, but we must do it in such a way that it will ultimately be effective. That's in the interests of the residents. I'd like to close with that. I understand their concerns very well. In the end, the government must always stand alongside the people from its responsibility. That is important, but that also includes being very precise in what you can do and what you can't do and why not. I don't ever want to raise false expectations. This is just as bad for trusting the government as letting things go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	Very briefly concluding, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	I have one final question. How is it possible that a chemical giant like Chemours can completely negotiate with the local government what and how much it emits? And to what extent can the government support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	That too is a reflection of a situation that needs to be formulated a little more precisely. The competent authority shall be a licence holder. In the end, they are the ones who say: this is the way it should be. The company has a burden of proof to file. If there's any doubt about that, there'll be research. If there is further doubt, further research will be carried out. And when it is necessary, we adapt the rules, because in the end people are, personally, always more important than rules. It's not like the chemical giants always literally pull the longest end. They have looked at all these years without regulation and the fact that we do so at European level. The question is constantly whether we are doing exactly enough to prevent them from taking undue space. That's what this is about. I agree with you on this point, but that is what we are doing with each other now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Aalst about the information meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	I just missed what the question was. I'm sorry, can that question be asked again? The information meetings are organised by local authorities for their people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	The question was what exactly is reported at those information meetings. What can people expect there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	They can ask all the questions there. That seems to me to be the point. If you go to a meeting like this and you have questions about everything and everything, you can go there. There will be people from the GGD and RIVM, as well as from companies and governments. People can go there. If they have any questions, they can go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	The vote on motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for her input into the debate and, of course, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed the debate.
