ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Security and Justice. Today, seven MPs are going to make their maiden speech. I'd like to suspend for a moment after two MPs for the congratulations. Then the members of the political groups and colleagues can congratulate them. We do it in categories; let me put it this way. I shall begin with Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA Group. For the record, a maiden speech should not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	For me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have a confession to make. I'm kind of disobeyed by nature. I have never put up with injustice, if one is seen as less than the other. In the old days, that gave me a bloody nose, when I tried to stand up on the school square as a bridge-classer for the even smaller bridgemen. But with time came wisdom and I saw that I could fight injustice better by standing up with people for equal opportunities. I did, first in education and then at the FNV, because everyone belongs and needs to be able to participate. I have also personally experienced how important that is, what happened in my family when an income was completely lost due to illness and there was nothing insured because it is priceless forzzp'ers to insure themselves. Then every base, every solid ground underneath you falls away. We only have the freedom to really make something of our lives if we have solid ground under our feet, if the base is certain. Then we have the freedom to really be who we are and to develop to the full, but that solid ground is not there for too many people. How often do we all reflect on the freedoms we know here? Every day? Once a week? Monthly? The freedom to set up your own life, to start a family. The freedom to say anything. The freedom to choose a school. The freedom to choose your own partner. The freedom to believe in nothing, in anything or in a god. The freedom to always be safe across the street, even hand in hand. But freedom means little without security, the security of work, of an income. You have to be able to trust that you can go to a doctor when you get sick. That you're protected when you're having a hard time. The security of a safe environment at home, but also on the street. And the certainty that you can become anything, whatever you believe and wherever you come from. You're not really free until you have that certainty in your life, when you're able to develop yourself and be yourself. A society with freedom without certainty has no real equality. This brings me to discrimination, one of those persistent problems that threaten our freedoms. Discrimination is unfortunately in all parts of our society. Recently we were shocked again by the events in Arnhem. It must be safe everywhere to walk around as a woman, with a different skin colour or with a different sexual preference. We do not ban discrimination by a single law. This can only be done through a comprehensive approach, as my predecessor Marcouch suggested: at school, in the police, in the courtroom and in education. I therefore have a number of questions for this debate. Can Minister Blok explain the state of implementation of the Marcouch motion for a comprehensive approach to discrimination (3450-VI, No. 55)? To help the informant, I have prepared a text for a future coalition agreement. Mr President, I would like to offer it to you with the request to transfer it to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	Among other things, the COC advocates higher penalties for discriminatory violence. The Labour Party supports this. Can Minister Blok respond to this? What is the Minister going to do pending the treatment of our own initiative law for criminalising sexual harassment on the streets, so that every woman can safely cross the street without being mimicked, mocked or molested? Finally, I have a question for Minister Asscher. Also in the workplace there is discrimination, whether it is because of your last name, age or sexual preference. Due to the adoption policy of companies, people are not invited because of their last name. How can the Minister equip the Labour Inspectorate to counter this? I would like to receive a response from the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	I now give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. Opportunities for everyone. That's what I'm standing for. That is not by chance the title of the election programme on the basis of which I was elected MP for my party, D66. Our multicoloured, diverse, open society is an important part of our culture, of our identity. For me and D66, an open and free society has always been a force, and it must remain so. This is a special debate, also for me personally. If I look at you then I'll take you as a symbol of a larger group of people, I'll see that we can soon replace the American dream with the Dutch dream, or as Alexander Pechtold puts it so beautifully: the Dutch promise. The Netherlands the New York of Europe, that's what I'm going for. Discrimination, which is still persistently present in the present-day Netherlands, we also sometimes fight against the flow. People with a migration background, from the first, second or third generation, are part of it. They're Dutch. It is deeply sad that they are treated differently in the Netherlands in 2017. There must be continued attention to that. We also see discrimination in the Ihbti community. That's been on the news a lot in the last few days. Sixteen years as a diplomat in several countries, I have worked for Ihbti rights. Then I was always proud of the Netherlands, because we have done so well here. Now that I'm back in the Netherlands a few months ago I'm scared again. Turns out what? Walking hand in hand is seen as provocation here, in the Netherlands, in 2017. We have been able to do a lot, but being able to walk safely across the street is a subject that deserves constant attention. That's what it turns out to be. D66 stands for the opportunities for everyone and for the rights and protection of minorities. That starts with education. Make sexual diversity negotiable, even in groups that still see it as taboo from home, whether in Amsterdam-Nieuw-West or on the Veluwe. Although sexual diversity has been included in the curriculum of secondary schools, it is often difficult to actually discuss it in the classroom. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to the subject of anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. Teachers are often too hesitant to start. Can the Minister take a look at that with his colleagues? My party colleague Boris Dittrich wrote it yesterday in De Volkskrant: people seem to think that protection of one minority group is by definition at the expense of the other minority group. We behave like that sometimes, even in this house. For D66 it is not either-or, but and-and, because the willingness to report in cases of discrimination simply needs to be increased. Whether it's someone with a Moroccan background who doesn't enter a nightclub, a gay or a Moslima with a headscarf that gets a slap or anti-Semitic choirs at a football game: report it. Only if discrimination is reported can the police do something with it, it is registered and the criminal justice chain can do its job. For D66 it is therefore very important for people to be able to ensure that something is done with their reporting or reporting. That means more capacity to detect discrimination cases, so that the D.A. can actually get on with these cases. What has the Minister done to raise this awareness in recent times? People with a migration background and a university degree are three times as often unemployed as people without a migration background. Then I'm talking about people who were all born here. They're having trouble finding internships, they're having trouble just being able to join. It is also good that, on a proposal from D66, the SZW inspection will have more capacity to tackle labour market discrimination. Then there is another issue that concerns me: discrimination against women in the labour market. Because we still see there that the number of women in top positions is lagging behind and that women earn less than men in equal positions. Research carried out by the College of Human Rights shows that almost half of women in the labour market have experience of discrimination in relation to pregnancy. There are 50,000 women every year. Is the Minister prepared to better inform not only employers but also women about rights and obligations? Is he also prepared to take greater action against pregnancy discrimination that prevents equal opportunities for women and men? Does he want to take away the lower level of reporting here, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can congratulate colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	I give the floor to Mrs Voortman, who speaks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. I wish Mr Bouali and Mr Van Dijk luck with their maiden speeches. Mr Van Dijk made a very passionate speech about the importance of freedom for all. He also had a very clear voice. I think that shows his trade union background, which is also very useful in this area. Mr Bouali stood out to me this week because of his animable appearance. Perhaps this is due to his very different background from that of Mr Van Dijk, namely as a former diplomat. You can see that in his story. I also very much agreed with what he had to say. I wish both gentlemen every success. Almost eleven months ago, Mr Marcouch and I asked for this debate following a report by SPIOR. That report showed that the problem of Muslim discrimination is much greater than the reporting rates show. The uncomfortable question of how racist the Netherlands is was therefore on the table. This week, the abuse of two homosexual men from Arnhem was spread out in the news. It is another sad example of the consequences of discrimination. Regardless of whether discrimination is based on faith, sexual orientation, ethnicity, age or gender, any form of it is objectionable and unacceptable. We must therefore continue to make efforts to prevent discrimination and, where necessary, to punish it, so that everyone is treated equally. The Netherlands may then traditionally be seen as a tolerant country, it is clear that this is not always self-evident in the Netherlands either. Consciously and unconsciously we often assume what is the norm and often have all kinds of prejudices. It can be painful to be confronted with this, precisely because we often do not realize that we ourselves sometimes discriminate. However, it is important that we enter into this process and that we can all look critically at ourselves. The SPIOR report shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. For example, the report of the Verwey-Jonker Institute shows that the number of events of racism and Muslim discrimination has consistently increased since 2013. The cabinet responded to all these messages with the National Action Programme against discrimination. It was a good first step full of good ideas to get more information from schools, municipalities and the police. But what exactly has been done to remove the barriers? Measures are being used to prevent ethnic profiling, but no consideration is being given to the possibility of using stop forms. This is precisely the main criticism of the action programme. As far as I am concerned, all the measures mentioned are sympathetic and important, but why is it not chosen to at least examine whether stop forms could contribute to countering ethnic profiling? How is concrete work being done to increase the reporting capacity of victims? Of course, the fact that there are 1,500 declarations of anti-gay violence per year and only 9 convictions does not help. It gives the impression that filing a report isn't gonna work. Where does the huge gap between declarations and convictions come from? What exactly has been achieved in the area of detection and prosecution, to which the police carried out a biweekly national screening in early 2017? GroenLinks wants a clear public policy against discrimination. That means more than a handout here and an investigation there. First of all, diversity needs to be addressed in education. Our colonial past, migration history, diversity and anti-discrimination must be part of the core objectives in both primary and secondary education. There is still much to gain in the labour market. Again, the choice is often made by someone who looks like the one who takes the job. A joint diversity charter and a possible barometer of cultural diversity for business are already being developed. What is the expected result of the diversity charter? And how does the Minister assess the results achieved so far? In addition, employers who do not comply should be penalised, which is only effective if labour market discrimination is actively detected by, for example, mistery applicants. Is the Minister prepared to commit to that? Investigation and prosecution also remain a problem outside the labour market. How does the Minister assess the measures currently being taken to improve detection and prosecution? Finally, it also means that we as politicians should feel responsible for the tone of the social debate, that we should be careful in our own statements not to throw away groups and that we should ensure that we are actually a representation of all the Dutch. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Discrimination and racism must be prevented and any perpetrators punished, but politicians also have a crucial role in this area outside policy making. Our words and actions have a major impact on the debate in society. Let us also deal with that influence responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. Let me start in bold capital letters today: the PVV is against criminal discrimination, against racism, against the call for violence and against violence itself. Thanks for the applause, but it was an open door. The fact that this debate is being held does not have much to do with racism and discrimination at all. This debate marks something else, namely the fact that the pursuit of a multicultural society is a failure. In multicultural Utopia, everyone should be equal. But now it seems more and more that we can't. It's not working. I can't. In fact, the more mass immigration takes place in the Netherlands, the more cultures you put together, the more large groups are going to behave like a hurt minority. In addition, the Netherlands has taught everyone that being a minority can be a good earning model with a long-standing subsidy circus. There is always something to get in the Netherlands. Socialists and other donors of our country will show the way. If it isn't free money, you can get on TV by milking the suffering of your great-grandfather or mother for your own gain. The only requirements are to belong to such a hurt minority, to own a good hurt model and, the key to success, to call hard "racism" or "discrimination," even if there is no such thing. The identitarian hurts in our society find an ally in Islam. They are united in hatred towards our superior Western civilization. That civilization must be destroyed, because if the Dutch oppressor is made a cup smaller, everyone is equal, or something like that. If there is one force in our society that bears discrimination as a trademark, that is Islam. Islam strives for domination and submission wherever it is present. Everything must be subordinated to Islam and oppression of everything and everyone who thinks differently is the result by default. Where Islam dominates, look at the history of it.There, as a Jew, Christian or homosexual, you can only survive by paying more taxes and adding to the rules of Islam. Or you give yourself up and you convert. There are no other flavors. Everywhere Islam dominates, Jews are expelled and/or killed. Then it's Christians' turn. There is also a proverb in Islam: after Saturday comes Sunday. Then you can fill it out yourself. And finally, the gays are up. Gay people dare to walk on the streets in the Netherlands immediately in the current day. One of them this week had appalling figures. If you're a gay couple going hand in hand across the street, you can get a bolt cutter in your face. There is no ideology that knows so many words that start with a k: k-jood, k-homo and also k-PVV'er. If discrimination is already a problem in the Netherlands, it is discrimination from Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	We have already discussed this at Question Time this week, but I would also like a reply from the PVV. It is true that Muslims use violence against homosexuals, but it is also true that native Dutch people do so. Does Mr De Graaf not think that we should also pay attention to this and condemn any violence against homosexuals, regardless of who committed it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes. That's a face-up, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	I am glad that Mr De Graaf says that, because the suggestion in his contribution is that the problem of discrimination against homosexuals would be solved if fewer Muslims lived here. Of course, that's not true. Gay people have been discriminated against for years; that has been the case for a long time and it has been before more Muslims lived in the Netherlands. I am therefore pleased that Mr De Graaf is now admitting that homosexual violence does not occur, that it is also committed by people who are not Muslims and that it is a broader problem that cannot be placed unilaterally in Islam. Thank you, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	Nice debate trick by Mrs Voortman to put words in my mouth and then to ask me for a denial and such. No, don't put words in my mouth. It has never been the case that we have said that Dutch people do not commit anti-gay violence. Everyone always says gay violence. No, it is not the gays themselves who commit violence, but the people who beat up gays; let us also be clear about that. I have never been shadowy about that as Mrs Voortman suggests. So don't attack me like that, don't put words in my mouth. Then I don't have to keep this weird story. It's obvious, isn't it? It's done. I'm doing nothing but say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr De Graaf denounced the inequality in Islamic countries. That's where I'm going with him. If Muslims, non-Muslims, Christians and Jews, men and women, are treated unequally, wherever in the world, then that is wrong. Is that so reflective that the PVV stands for a completely equal treatment of Muslims and non-Muslims in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	We have Article 1 of the Constitution and we support it. It's very simple. Mr Segers, of course, knows exactly what can happen in the Islamic world. He lived in Cairo for seven years. So perhaps you should support the PVV a little more in its anti-Islamic stance. And that too is one of the things that we have always said: everyone is covered by Article 1 of the Constitution. Everyone's the same for us. It is a pity that from Islam not everyone is equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	If there is inequality anywhere in the world, we must fight it. That includes Mr De Graaf. On the other hand, mirrored, we also believe that religious freedom applies to Christians, to Jews, to Buddhists, but that it also applies to Muslims. According to our Dutch Constitution, that freedom applies to everyone. Two sizes are measured. There is rightly criticism of foreign countries where this inequality is visible, but, Mr De Graaf, you should also look in the mirror and look at your own programme. If you do not give religious freedom undivided to everyone and do not give educational freedom undivided to everyone, then you have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	Great words from Mr Segers of the Christian Union. What he's doing now is appealing to his blind spot. I can't help thinking that if you've lived in Cairo for seven years, you still can't see that Islam is an ideology and that 4%, 5% of it is religion or religion. If you could cut off 95% of Islam, so that there is only religion left, there might be talk about it. However, Islam is an ideology and does not fall within the scope of religious freedom; it is as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	Freedom is simple. Freedom applies to everyone. We're not gonna see what everyone thinks in their heads; freedom belongs to everyone. I note that you say you stand up for freedom and fight against inequality elsewhere. You preach freedom here by not giving the freedoms we have enshrined in our Constitution undivided to everyone. That is extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, what Mr Segers is doing here is disappointing his own Christian supporters. That's what happens. If you give away the beautiful concept of Christian reciprocity "if you do not want it to happen to you, do not do so to another" to an ideology that does not have that reciprocity in itself and will never have it in itself, then you will end up going down yourself. That's exactly where it goes sideways. In the debate just before the elections between Mr Wilders of the PVV and Mr Segers, that became very clear. Mr Segers does not represent his supporters well. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	At the beginning I heard Mr De Graaf make a nice speech about the ideal of a similar Netherlands in which no one is discriminated against or excluded. But I was wondering how he looked at Geert W.'s conviction in the context of his discriminatory statements about "less Moroccans."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u24	Geert Wilders, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u26	Am I to understand that Mr Azarkan is indeed referring to Geert Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u27	I think the chairman just said that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u28	Okay, but I haven't heard the name out of your mouth yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u29	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u30	Fine, then we saw that trick right away. The whole case surrounding our party leader Geert Wilders is still under the judge. There's been an appeal. Of course, especially in Parliament, it is not always nice to make judgments about a case that is under the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u31	You're already making big statements about things in the paper, like the two guys who walked hand in hand and were beaten by a bunch of guys. You're already making judgments about that, when it's not in court yet. Isn't that inconsistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u32	No, we've asked the Minister to raise the penalty rate in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr De Graaf already knows that the penalty can be raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u34	We asked if we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u35	I see that Mr Azarkan has no supplementary questions. Proceed, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u36	We have to punish street terror by underage thugs according to adult law. In fact, this brings us to the very point Mr A., or Azarkan, raised. If the convicts have a dual nationality, we must take away their Dutch nationality. After we put them on water and bread for a long time, we have to evict them. Are both missionary rulers prepared to do so? I like to get a reaction. Finally: native Dutch people are often not advised to report anything. That's what makes crime look like it's getting away. That seems to be the case, because the willingness to report is falling. For minorities often overrepresented in crime, there are numerous hotlines, anti-discrimination agencies and the bonus of attention. That is the real discrimination that takes place in the Netherlands, because the natives, and some hard-working immigrants, pay for it. What we have to do is strive for assimilation. Exactly that was never asked of the foreigners who came here. Now we're stuck with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u37	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate colleagues Van Dijk and Bouali on their maiden speech; welcome to us! One of the most impressive movies I've ever seen is Amazing grace. That's a film about William Wilberforce, a British parliamentarians who spent his life fighting slavery and slave trade. Only a few days before his death was the final vote, the slave trade was abolished and he had fruit of his work. The great motive for him was the belief that every man was created in the image of God and thus equal and equal. Discrimination and racism undermine that equality and equality of every human being. They also undermine freedom, freedom that I believe God gives us all to the same degree: the freedom to believe and the freedom to not believe, the freedom to be liberal and the freedom to be socialist, the freedom to walk hand in hand and the freedom to live celibate. That equality and freedom are at stake. They are at stake in attacks on homosexuals, for example last weekend in Arnhem, a terrible event that we have seen and which we are very concerned with. But they are also at stake in the case of discrimination on grounds of race, which still exists and on which many declarations are made, as we have seen in the reports. They are also at stake in verbal physical attacks on Jews, in the face of mischief of Muslims, Christians or any minority. What is at stake is a society in which you can be yourself and let your heart speak and be who you are, within the limits of the law. There is a task for all of us to keep that society open. Honesty commands me to say that faith and religion do not always bring out the best in people, as was the case with William Wilberforce, but sometimes bring out the worst in people. There are gays who feel unsafe in religious circles. There has been anti-Semitism; there has been anti-Semitism in the past in the Christian community. There is now anti-Semitism in Islamic circles. That's extremely bad. That is why there is a mission for religious and ethnic communities to find out how safe they themselves are, how free they are and to what extent they encourage charity. Then there are also good examples. I refer, for example, to the reformatorical school De Driestar in Gouda, where, with all the specific ideas about marriage, they say: this must be a school where gay people can come out safely and be themselves. Furthermore, I heard from the COC that the Council of Moroccan Mosques sought contact with the COC as a result of what happened in Arnhem and asked: how can we hang out with you and how can we help you? Those are nice signals. I have spoken with Rabbi Lody van de Kamp and Said Bensellam, who together I would almost say: hand in hand, proverbial than to raise up to advocate tolerance and tolerance and thus form a wonderful example. My question to the rulers is: to what extent do they promote these kinds of conversations, these kinds of choices, these kinds of meetings? But there is also great concern in other communities. I mention the example of football stadiums, where every time there are choirs who defy everything: anti-Semitic choirs, with terrible words. And every time the game goes on like nothing's wrong. Is the cabinet prepared to talk to the KNVB about sanctions and the possibility of stopping competitions in order to maintain the standard there too? I have another question. This week we read that Germany is coming up with a proposal to make social media platforms responsible for action against discrimination, hate and racism. Is that a proposal that is also viable in the Netherlands? Can the cabinet look into that? Would it not be appropriate to discuss with the Council of Ministers for Justice special community service or special conditions with which we bring perpetrators of discrimination and racism into contact with victims and confront them with the pain that causes discrimination and racism? That might be much more beneficial than just punishing hard. I agree with Mrs Voortman's question about the difference between the huge amount of declarations made and the small number of convictions resulting from them. What's the cause of that? Can the Minister of Security and Justice address that? Finally, I would like to say that the COC has made a plea for increased punishment in the case of hate crimes. My question is: is that necessary or can it already be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u38	First of all, a compliment on the question about Germany. That question about the approach of Facebook and Twitter I also like to ask the Minister. However, my question to Mr Segers is about education. I know that Mr Segers is very much in favour of special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's his right. But he shouldn't be performing these schools here as examples of integration or as examples of schools where everything goes well. I object to that. If we look at the root causes of discrimination and racism, we must also look at our education. I regret the enormous segregation in education. Do you share my view, Mr Segers, that you should not mention your beloved Orthodox Christian schools as examples of integration, because they are very segregated schools, which also have the right to refuse students if they do not comply with their orthodox Christian image?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u41	In a new period you always hope that new arguments and new insights will come from Mr Van Dijk, but they are not there. This is a long-playing record. I repeat: there is no relationship between the freedom of education we have and segregation. There is no relationship, Mr. Van Dijk. It's been shown to be extreme. In particular, education is to the same extent a division between, say, ethnicity and indigenousity, and in the same way it contributes to integration as public education. That's the first thing: it's just not true. It is not true that special education leads to segregation. The second concerns whether education contributes to sexual freedom. At least I thought Mr Van Dijk was referring to that. There is a report from the Education Inspectorate from June 2016, so less than a year ago, which states that schools with a strong philosophical identity tend to pay attention to sexuality, including resilience and diversity. It is a commendable report on what special schools do in this area. Mr Van Dijk should read it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u42	The album mainly comes from Mr Segers, who doesn't really want to talk about anything anymore as soon as "freedom of education" and "Article 23" pass by. There is certainly a relationship between special education and the number of non-Western pupils. Special education accounts for relatively less. These figures should be examined by Mr Segers. That certainly applies to the Orthodox Christian schools. Mr Segers himself recognizes that. Then he says, "That's a very small group." That is not the point, Mr Segers. Orthodox schools in the Netherlands have the right to choose their own pupils. I do not think that this is an example of emancipation and equal access and certainly not of integration. It would be a credit to Mr Segers if he admitted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u43	This discussion has been extensive, I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u44	I just told my colleague, De Graaf, about constitutional freedom of education. I would also like to do that towards the SP Group. I would also remind you once again of freedom of association. Yes, sometimes there are different interests and different freedoms, but freedom of association may also be worth something. Freedom of education may also be worth something. Once again, if Mr Van Dijk wants to fight against segregation, we stand shoulder to shoulder, but I also want to fight against segregation. If he wants to fight against freedom of education, if he wants parents to have less freedom of choice and if there are no schools of a philosophical nature, then he has to say so. However, that is not a fight against segregation. That's a completely different fight. Mr Van Dijk wants different schools and less freedom of choice. That's what he wants, even if it's not my choice, but then it's really a different discussion than the one about fighting segregation, which I like to have with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u45	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Van Dijk, but it is really about discrimination and racism. I know that there are similarities with freedom of education, but we have had this debate a few times here. So I ask you to confine yourselves to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u46	With all due respect, but the debate on discrimination and racism has also taken place many times here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u47	No, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'll close it briefly. It's the other way around. The SP wants to increase parents' freedom to choose their schools. Mr Segers wants to limit it. He wants to give school boards the right to choose students, to apply selection at the gate. He's proud of that. Just admit it, Mr Segers. We increase the freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Van Dijk wants to get rid of the freedom of education. That means reducing parents' freedom of choice. Parents have the freedom to form an association and to establish a school. That's freedom. Yes, in some cases this leads them to opt for an Orthodox Christian school and accept only teachers and students who can work with heart and soul. In 3% of cases, this freedom leads to this. Even that's freedom. It's the freedom to form an association and be yourself. That's a freedom you have to keep open and defend. That same freedom is the mirror image of the freedom to have an open school, to have a public school, to have the whole range of schools we have. This results in a rich palette, good education and great parental involvement. Celebrate that and fight me against segregation. However, it must not be a fight against windmills, but a real fight against segregation. That is not through the abolition of Article 23 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u50	I commend Mr Segers for stating explicitly that discrimination also occurs in religious circles. I really thought that was a very appealing piece in his speech. I have also said in my speech that we are all sometimes discriminated against, unconsciously or consciously. I was very pleased with Mr Segers' point. At the same time, however, he says that in 3% of cases schools refuse students because they do not adhere to the faith of that school. Well, then, you do rule out people, don't you? And that's undesirable, isn't it? If students or teachers indicate that they can live with the doctrine, that they do not hinder them, but that they do want to go to that school, what is against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u51	My own three daughters go to a school with an open admission policy. It's a Christian school that allows anyone who's attracted to that school. Parents who want their child to become acquainted with the Christian tradition then opt for a Christian school without being Christian themselves. You can; that's the choice of that school. There are also schools that make other choices. Let me make a comparison with political parties. It would be strange if we were to prescribe the Party for Animals, which is sitting in the back of the room: you will also accept hunters. If a hunter knocks on the door of the Animal Party and says he wants to join and represent that party, wouldn't it be strange if the Animal Party should let that hunter in? An association always has the freedom to select, to say: these are us. GroenLinks has that freedom, the SP has that freedom, the Christian Union has that freedom and a school association has that freedom. He has the freedom to say: and this is us. So there's always a certain selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr Segers' example of the school where his own children go shows that an open admission policy and Article 23 on freedom of education can go together. For the freedom of education there is therefore no need to have the space to refuse other people. So I do not understand why Mr Segers still stands up for giving the room to exclude people. I don't understand. I think it's something else with a political party, although I think a hunter should be a member of the Party for Animals when...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u53	The Party for the Animals has violently shaken no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mrs Thieme shakes a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u55	Okay. I would think: as long as the principles of the party are upheld... Anyway, that aside. This is compulsory education, and all children have it. So I don't understand why you have to give people the freedom to exclude other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u56	When you give freedom, you give the freedom to make choices that are not always your choices. I myself, as a parent, have chosen a school other than a school with a restrictive admission policy. But isn't it strange to say that everyone has to make the same choice? Then I'm going to force the choice I make to others. That's weird, isn't it? That's not the concept of freedom. The concept of freedom is that you say: you have freedom of choice; there is a huge palette of schools and there is always a school that appeals to you. Choose for that. Keep that freedom open. But part of that package deal, of that story, is that you also leave the freedom open to schools that say: we can only maintain that identity with teachers and students who stand for it with heart and soul. I want to keep that freedom open. And then I'm going to link it to the debate here one more time: it doesn't lead to segregation and it doesn't lead to exclusion. It is increasing freedom of choice, with special education receiving the same share of newcomers as public education. It's about freedom, and we're celebrating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u57	I shall now turn to Mr Azarkan. He speaks on behalf of DENK. Mr Azarkan is also making his maiden speech and should not be interrupted, at least today; for the first time and for the last time, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Gijs van Dijk on his contributions, of course, for those of Jasper van Dijk and Mr Achraf Bouali during their maiden speeches. Let me first express my gratitude to the voters who have put their trust in me to represent them here, in the heart of democracy. It is an honor and a pleasure and it is also a great responsibility. DENK stands for a society in which everyone gets equal opportunities and is not dealt with on group characteristics, but on individual qualities. DENK stands for a Netherlands in which everyone feels safe and has a place to give in freedom to their own ethnic, religious, sexual and cultural identity. Only if we embrace diversity together can we prevent exclusion and inequality. Not just talk and participate, but also decide and be a full member of our society: that's what everyone wants and that's what I'm committed to at DENK and in politics. But we're still a long way from that ideal. Last year this debate in the House of Representatives was requested following a broadcast by Nieuwsuur about how racist the Netherlands is. And while citizens are dealing with discrimination on a daily basis, politics permits itself to wait a year to talk about it. What kind of signal do we send? Have we not failed as political leaders if we in the Netherlands have a society in which 4 million people claim to suffer discrimination and racism, according to the figures of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau? Reports of internet discrimination increased by 41%. Anti-discrimination provisions now report an increase after years of decline. The Human Rights College received almost 1,000 more reports of discrimination in the last year. My first question to the Minister is therefore: what do these figures say about the effectiveness of the approach over the last four and a half years? When we zoom in on those figures, it appears that discrimination based on origin and religion is growing alarmingly. Was it not the minister who wrote in his letter of 29 September: "Strikingly often Moslimas with headscarf are targets of verbal and physical violence"? I had to read this phrase a few times, because I had to guess what the minister meant by it. While I'm here, I might as well ask. Can the Minister explain what he means by "strikingly often"? Does the Minister have some sort of standard of when it is not remarkably common? I wonder if there would be a connection with the hatred that is being preached here by Geert Wilders and his PVV and which is increasingly being taken over. I've seen with horror how #houding? The Commission's proposal for a Council I don't want to know how Geert Wilders is going to shut down Muslims. I don't want to know how Geert Wilder's going to ban Korans and certainly not how Geert Wilder's going to close mosques. These mosques have more and more to do with hatred, violence and threats. Why don't these mosques just get the means to secure themselves instead of a paper hand-off? Is it not time for an action plan to end Muslim discrimination? We at DENK believe that more effort is needed. As a Chamber, let us say that we are going to force the new cabinet to make a firmer commitment to combating racism and discrimination. I am also considering tabling a motion for a resolution. I hope the Chamber is prepared to send a clear signal. In addition, there must be more capacity to tackle racism and discrimination, including simply more euros. The CPB provides for a surplus of 2.9 billion for this year. Are the Ministers prepared to allocate more resources to anti-discrimination policies and to tackle discrimination so that the authorities can do their work better? I have just heard in colleagues' contributions that we need a chain approach to discrimination. Mrs. Voortman spoke of community service. Last year we launched a chain approach to discrimination and I am now asking whether it can be passed on to the forming parties. I will conclude with one final point. Let us also tackle the abuses in the labour market very hard. An action group in Amsterdam called sixteen temporary employment agencies and asked if they could only send white staff. Three quarters of temporary employment agencies were prepared to do so. So three quarters! Is it not time for ministers to repeat the 2011 survey on the way in which temporary employment agencies deal with people of different origins? Is Minister Asscher prepared to use more inspection capacity to tackle discrimination? I'm rounding up. The quality of democracy is determined by the way it deals with minorities. I come to the conclusion that we still have a great deal of work to do on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you. I will suspend Mr Hiddema's maiden speech for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Gijs van Dijk, Mr Bouali, Mr Azarkan and the speakers who are coming after me for their maiden speech. I am sure they are great talents that add to the debate in this Chamber. Discrimination and racism are totally unacceptable to the SP. Eliminating people because of their origin, religion or sexual preference is very bad and needs to be tackled hard, especially when there is violence in play. I would like to stress to the members of the PVV group that this applies to the SP in all cases. I have the impression that the PVV shop selectively. Mr De Graaf began his speech by saying that he is against discrimination, but he then refuses to accuse his own party leader of discrimination when the judge simply said so. Too bad! This debate was requested in May last year because of the downright racist insults that Sylvana Simons got over him. I'll give you some painful examples: whining, attention whore, black pussy, traitor, slut, and whatnot. Minister Asscher rightly spoke of a sewer of reactions, some of which should certainly lead to persecution. In the meantime, we are almost a year further. What happened to that sewer of reactions? In how many cases has it led to prosecution by the D.A.? I'd like to get a reaction to this. We were faced last weekend with horrible violence against gay people in Arnhem. The victims walked hand in hand, started fighting with a group of boys and one of the men then lost four teeth. This kind of senseless violence is unacceptable. That is why I make a number of proposals. There must be sufficient capacity to deal with these kind of assholes. Why have there been only 9 convictions from 1,500 reports? Is the police even equipped for this sort of thing? The SP pleads for additional investments, but unfortunately she received no support from GroenLinks, D66, CDA and VVD for a motion on Tuesday. I ask all colleagues here whether they agree that it is unacceptable for perpetrators not to be caught because of a shortage of police capacity. If so, support our proposal for additional investment. In addition, Mr Segers also raised the question of whether there is sufficient capacity to tackle racism and discrimination on the Internet. What do the rulers think of the German proposal to criminalise Facebook and Twitter if they allow such things on their websites? At least as important is the prevention of discrimination and homophobia in education. Therefore, since 2012, schools have been required to provide information on sexual resilience and homo-emancipation. However, the education inspector states that two out of ten schools pay little or no attention to this. That is not possible! Do the rulers agree that these schools should be properly addressed? If they're still failing, do they agree to get a fine or an administrative instruction so that there's a stick behind the door? By the way, nothing has yet been settled for the MBO, while MBOs are an important target group. Is the Chamber willing to include lessons on sexual diversity in the MBO? I'm asking the Chamber, ordinarily I'm asking the government, but it's demissionary. I'm considering a motion on this point. The fight against discrimination and racism is also done by combating segregation. Through segregation, the separation of life, the fear of foreigners increases. We need to do more to achieve integration, starting with education, through an acceptance obligation. It's been coming along for a while. All schools must open their doors to all students. In my opinion, that is beyond question. In addition, you can fight segregation through a central registration of pupils at primary schools. This is already happening in Nijmegen. Is the government prepared to bring this model to the attention of other municipalities? Then we will ensure that primary schools reflect society much more and lay the foundation for our children for a life without xenophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to thank the electorate, who now demands the floor from me. Mr President, I would like to thank your supportive staff, who, with courtesy, patience and perseverance, are trying to show me the way in this house. I am grateful to the language in which I learned to express myself. Especially that one rule is very useful to me: Frysk blood chooch, wool no ris brûze and silk. This is the very wrong beginning of the Frisian national anthem. I can now use this as a stimulus, because I have to keep up the momentum. I understand there's a bell here that's shifting. I've been warned about that. Luckily, I can't see it. For me, the issue is discrimination and racism. The Forum for Democracy finds discrimination and racism stupid and narrow-minded and its lovers joyless and enhanced. If it were up to the Forum, our motto would be: let them cook in their prejudices and grumpy. End of story. However, that is not in line with public policy, I understand. So welcome to the world of discrimination and racism fighters and their reports! So you end up in the world of the reporters, the regulators and the equalisers; not even an environment where it is always pleasant, I can tell you. Their paper flows suggest a major problem. What's going on in my file? SPIOR (Foundation Platform Islamic Organisations Rijnmond) reports. The ADVs (anti-discrimination provision) report. Report the MiND (Internet Discrimination Report) and MDI (Internet Discrimination Report). The Islamophobia Information Point is coming along, as is the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination. As an ex-lawyer, you're gonna be good and hard on it. What's it say, anyway? A find of at least 1 kilo reported together, with a content of less than a gram. If a lawyer recommended a judge to reach a verdict on the basis of these findings, that lawyer would be laughed at and the report would disappear in the trash. There's nothing you can do with it. Thousands of reports and registrations have been reported, but there is not a speck of truth on them. Nothing can be verified. Are all these thousands of reports of vicious racist violence and verbal vandalism? You don't know, it's just a call. Is there any mention of long toes on the reporter? You don't know. Is there any form of harassment? You don't know. Are we talking about externalization, of all your failures blaming discrimination and racism? I don't know. There's no verification anywhere. The desks work simply according to the procedure: you complain, we run. And that'll pay off for the desks. I am thinking, for example, of the SPIOR recommendations. Those are terrifying quotes, aren't they? I read: There is a high level of underreporting. How do we know? I don't know. I also read'say' and then all the alarm bells of course say that there are eight times more cases of discrimination and racism than all the reports show. How the hell do you know, eight times as much? Then the alarm bells will start, as I said, because these discrimination rapporteurs already know that there are eight times as many to report and they want to investigate why that is. In other words, these discrimination rapporteurs already know in advance what they want to prove. Well, then the boat's on for me. Then you can't do anything with it. And then, of course, self-interest comes around the corner. What are the recommendations? Addressing the underreporting. How? Should the surveyors then use preprinted survey forms on the streets and register any displeasure talk? Is that the point? Then there is the increase in reporting readiness. That's a free job for mind-driving. That does not work in the direction of reducing complaints, because you would be glad that there is little to complain about. No, there's got to be a complaint optimization. The self-interest is obvious. I ask the Minister how, on the basis of this inscrutable piece of figures, where nothing of evidence exists, he intends to coordinate policies. I don't see how that's possible. I really wouldn't know. There is also hope, because the only report that does offer a positive view of the future is the report of the Public Prosecutor. This concerns complainants who take their complaints seriously themselves and they go to the police. Half of these complaints are dismissed. Then you'd think it might be because of the quality of the complaints that in the end there won't be so much of it in court and there won't be so many convictions. Be happy, I'd say. Then I'm not gonna ask the Minister why there's such a big hole? Then you might ask yourself whether the quality of the hotlines or the content of the complaint itself meets legitimate concerns that we may have. No, I didn't. So what are we supposed to do? We need to stop talking to each other about fear. I have not even mentioned the report of the Committee on Racial Discrimination. There are fleeting figures in there who should also cause unrest. Even the good Martin.................................................................................................................... It is good that a certain novelist, Mr Baudet, got the dance out of this report. So what are the recommendations of the Democracy Forum? Keep the Netherlands liveable. Stop this complaining and clicking industry. Make the people resilient. Get rid of the hotlines, or simply put it; get the plug out of the subsidies. 'Cause the cops can do it. If there's really something to complain about, you walk to the police and then the judge can judge if it's worth it and otherwise there'll be an O.M. sepot. Ready. That's how you make the population resilient. Hope makes life, I'd say. And then a final advice for everyone who is not sure whether or not they should complain: "but dyn duty and lit de lju rabje." That is also Fries, which means as much as: do what you have to do and let people chat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you. You're way over your speaking time, but all right, it's your maiden speech. You're forgiven. I'm gonna suspend for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u64	We shall continue with the debate and I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. Mr Van Dam also has his maiden speech and should not be interrupted on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u65	Madam President. Policemen, prosecutors, judges and, as I see it, lawyers are also frequently confronted with the back and bottom of our society. Murder and manslaughter, drugs, human trafficking, domestic violence. As a former police officer and prosecutor, I've dealt with all these cases for years. It is a good breeding ground to say one day: I no longer want to dampen the well when the calf has already drowned. Let me help to avoid problems, to make policies and to make the right choices. You can take that as a "I know better." I do not know whether I know better or can do better, but I do know that I have a specific opinion on security, a vision that fits in with the way Christian Democrats look at society. Safety also begins with citizens themselves, with the family, with schools, with football security. It is a vision of security that does not primarily impose responsibility on the government, police or justice, but relies on the strength, initiative and sense of responsibility of people themselves. It's also not a vision that revolves around the optimal pursuit of personal development, maximum profit and ikke, ikke. No, Christian Democrats are about the connection. In it, life gets meaning. The same applies to safety. So safety begins with a decent, well-functioning society in which people look at each other. If that is a prerequisite for safety, our starting position today is not a happy one. That society of ours is a bit of a screw-up. I would like to refer to the report on the Civil Perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. This shows that we are increasingly living in our own bubble, in our own corner of society, closed off from others. I notice it myself when I go out on Saturdays with my children here in The Hague. Each time I find myself in another world, from Moroccan, Antillean, Turkish or indigenous Hague footballers, where teams on the field do not play with each other, but especially against each other, each in his own world. The Social and Cultural Planning Office, on the one hand, notes that a large part of the population is going to make more and more their own choices, want to enjoy more freedom and take more direction over life, while another part of the population is less and less capable of doing so. It is no longer a barrier, but a horizontal division based on training, work and knowledge. Have we become a collection of mutual minorities or are we together the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands? Who else stands up for the common good? It is more than an election story for the CDA that we specifically call for attention to be paid to the country we wish to pass on. If the tendency is for us to withdraw more and more into our own world, in our own bubble, this is also bad news for the fight against discrimination and racism. If, on the other hand, we manage to polish the importance and significance of our common democratic rule of law in the Netherlands, sometimes even to find it, this is immediately an investment in something that we consider important and valuable together. In this context, the social service is compulsory and the singing of the Wilhelmus is more than an attempt at so-called forced labour or a relic from a distant past. It is above all an investment in shared values and interests and therefore im- or explicit an investment in combating discrimination and racism. This brings us to the subject we are meeting here today: discrimination and racism. Both have a lot to do with the way our brain works. Apparently, we are good at linking experiences we have with individuals to our appreciation for the whole group. Sometimes that leads to positive associations. For example, we think that all Volendammers can sing well. More often the opposite occurs: then negative experiences with individuals lead to a negative picture of an entire group. Parliament can make a significant contribution to imaging. Let us not fail to fight discrimination here. Whether it is an abuse of a gay couple, labour market discrimination, discrimination against pregnant women or discrimination against Muslims or Jews, we should all be very concerned here. I have the impression today that it is. I now come to my more substantive contribution to the debate. I thank Minister Blok for his letter. I understand the raising remark in the direction of this novice Member of Parliament; thank you for that. Let me say first of all that I welcome the overview and the comprehensive interim report on discrimination, which shows that a great deal is already happening when it comes to combating discrimination. The overview of good examples of policies against labour market discrimination is also very much appreciated. It is a cautious beginning, but the beginning is there. The CDA Group specifically asks the Minister to continue collecting these positive sounds and to incorporate them in the campaigns against discrimination and racism, precisely in order to change the image. I would like to talk about the reporting and reporting rates of discrimination. This debate has its origins in two motions concerning the delay in reports of Muslim discrimination. The figures from the anti-discrimination provision and the police show that the number of reports from Muslims has doubled compared to 2014. Although this increase in itself is very worrying, it could at the same time prove that Muslims dare to report more than before. Can the Minister tell us how he looks at this? Are the figures to be analysed in such a way that we can see what is really going on: more discrimination, fewer thresholds or both? I would like to make a comment on the figures. It is April 2017 and we are now talking about the figures for 2015. Call me any important issue that we are discussing in this Parliament: economics, care, security, and we have up-to-date figures on the table. The importance of the issue of discrimination and racism justifies the fact that clearer figures are available much faster. That is and remains an Achilles heel. I read in the papers that the police are working on reports every two weeks. I ask the Minister to report on this on a quarterly basis. I would prefer an integrated reporting of ADVs, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u66	You're done, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u67	Two more things, Mr. Chairman. The Minister announced that a study on the organisation of the various ADVs will be published in April. A number of municipalities have withdrawn from the ADVs. The CDA Group would particularly appreciate this being addressed in the reporting to be provided, including for the quality of the alternatives. Finally, in conclusion, I understand that I defy you, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u68	Well, you have four minutes' speaking time, but you have exceeded Mr Hiddema's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yes, I take that as an honor and a pleasure, Mr. Chairman. The last point I want to make is that there is always a lot to be done about the degree of declaration, how long it takes and how it is that there are a lot of declarations but there is little result. I ask the Minister whether it is possible to draw up a declaration protocol on discrimination cases, so that citizens can see what they can expect if they report discrimination. Thank you for your patience, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u71	I shall suspend on behalf of the VVD after Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' contribution. She's also making her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. Today, for the first time as a member of the Chamber, I can address you from this place: a great honour. It's extra special that my maiden speech may be about our basic principle that everyone is equal before the law. It is so important that it is included in Article 1 of our Constitution for a reason. I came to this country with my parents over 30 years ago as a political refugee. My parents fought for equal rights for gays, for religious minorities, for seculars and for many others. At some point, the situation became too dangerous for them. They had to choose to leave everything behind and build a new life elsewhere. With that background, I know that freedom is not self-evident. In our country too, our freedoms, standards and values are under great pressure. There are people who think they can shop freely in our freedoms, people who claim freedoms for themselves, but who brutally restrict the freedom of another with violence, intimidation, exclusion or otherwise. Any form of violence is equally serious, but if we are to be severely affected on top of our freedoms, we must be extra vigilant. We cannot be clear enough against these people: we do not do so in our country; we do not tolerate this. For the VVD and for the law, all people are equal. That principle is so fundamental to our society that we must not only live for it, but also cherish it, promote it and defend it where necessary. Unfortunately, this is increasingly necessary. I would like to say here that two men in this country can quietly hand in hand across the street, but I know that my gay friends have long since stopped doing so, because they are afraid to provoke. With pain in my heart I understand their fear, especially after last weekend's events in Arnhem and Amsterdam. That is also the reality of today: horrible. The problem is wider. Jewish primary schools are structurally protected by the Marechaussee. Parents who organize their daughter's bar mitzvah are organizing security rather than the festivities themselves, purely and solely because of their faith. That too is the reality of today. Sometimes the security of people is not directly at stake, but their freedom is limited. Think of Muhammad, who can't find an internship or a job, while Johan, with the same education, is much less difficult. That too is still the reality of today. If you stand for freedom and equality, you must, by definition, oppose any form of discrimination. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a very serious matter. There is no room for nuance or selective indignation. Where borders are crossed, you can expect the government to protect our freedoms and rights. And that's what happens. As Minister Blok pointed out earlier this week, the police and the judiciary have been working on a firm approach to discrimination for a long time. If you have sufficient evidence, you'll be prosecuted by default. In the event of discrimination, the Public Prosecutor's Office is required to impose a double penalty. The VVD, like the minister, has great confidence in the use of police and justice. But I hope that we will all be able to distinguish the cases where there is evident discrimination from the group that I would like to call the professionally injured: people who draw the discrimination card at the slightest or the smallest, and who constantly throw away our agents, doctors, judges, teachers as racists, those who cultivate victimisation, encouraged by parties and interests who have turned it into a successful business model. That is the other side, and I cannot and will not leave it unnamed here. I'm rounding up. Whatever we do, we will unfortunately never be able to completely eradicate ignorance and discrimination. There will remain those who judge and condemn others for their orientation, faith or descent, no matter how many laws we make here. With this science, every human being has a choice: do I crochet or persevere, wallow in victimisation and be reduced to my origins or do I participate fully? I choose the latter, just like my parents did over 30 years ago. That has inspired me to put my shoulders under it, with the result that I can stand here today. I stand next to every Dutchman who makes the same choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'm gonna suspend the sitting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. All colleagues who spoke today for the first time: congratulations! Discrimination is a heavy and loaded subject. Aren't we all looking for a scapegoat that we can blame for our own problem? That is why we are inclined to blame the Eastern Europeans for our unemployment, because they are taking away our jobs, rather than calling on employers who employ people for less money under cost and through foreign constructions. We give newcomers who are allocated a property, the debt of housing shortage instead of forcing the housing corporations to build more social housing. We give young people with a tan and a hard to pronounce name a lower school advice. In short, isn't it in human nature to take the easy way out and find a scapegoat and put away whole groups? Where your cradle stands, makes a real difference, even in the Netherlands. As a result, some have been lagging behind since the beginning. The government has a task to address this inequality. This debate has been requested following a report on discrimination and violence against Muslims. Rightly, because, as is often the case in the case of discrimination, the whole group is called to account for the actions of individuals. If a terrorist attack is committed in the name of Islam, people are afraid to put the whole group away, and that is unjustified. On the other hand, we must not close our eyes to the dangers that radical Islam can bring. Any religion, there is no excuse for violence and discrimination. The abuse last weekend in Arnhem shows that there is still much work to be done on the acceptance of homosexuality in the Netherlands. 50PLUS recently signed the Rainbow Voice Agreement with conviction. It is worrying that "gay" is still used as a swear word. Discrimination seems to be only increasing, a consequence of a polarising and individualising society. Social media, where people think they're allowed to go anonymously, only hunt this down and we have to turn that tide. 50PLUS calls for more priority to be given to tackling all forms of discrimination. The chance of getting caught and the punishment must be increased and, as far as we are concerned, the willingness to report it. We believe that Mr Segers' proposal of the Christian Union, the confrontation between victim and offender, is a very good suggestion and we support it. We think that a lot of people are gonna let that report go because they feel like nothing's gonna happen to it. This makes discrimination possible again easier and that circle needs to be broken. Because this problem is a multifaceted monster, it needs to be addressed widely. 50PLUS therefore wants more attention to be paid to preventing discrimination in education and more district agents who can keep their finger on the wrist and establish links between groups. That can best be done close to people. Discrimination must be prevented by engaging and staying in conversation. I'd like a response from the rulers on this. In early 2016, a letter from Minister Asscher showed that age discrimination is the second experienced form of discrimination. The latest letter on the progress of the National Action Programme against Discrimination no longer mentions age at all. Can the Minister explain this? Let us stop seeing the elderly as a group and put them away as a group. They deserve respect for their commitment to our society. 50PLUS therefore advocates the inclusion of age discrimination as a term in the Constitution. I'd like a response. In the report of the UWV published yesterday, a study by Panteia was cited. This showed that older jobseekers in particular are discriminated against by employers, even more so than immigrants. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u75	Finally, Mrs Arissen has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party. She's also making her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. As a brand-new Member of Parliament for the Animal Party, the broad emancipation party par excellence which stands out for the importance of the weakest in this society, i.e. against the rights of the strongest, it is an honour for me to be able to express my maiden speech on the urgent subject under discussion today, namely discrimination and racism in the Netherlands. Discrimination has many appearances. It's a multifaceted monster. It goes far beyond the horrible incidents in which a person's orientation is prompted by a bolt cutter to knock that person's teeth out of his mouth. It is a deeply rooted disrespect for the lifestyle, nature, appearance, habit or philosophy of others. This disrespect is often placed in clear frames that make it easy to mint politically out of stereotype prejudices. For example, discrimination against homosexuals would mainly be fed by people with a certain religious background, easily ignoring the fact that the fight against discrimination by orientation cannot be won through other forms of discrimination. The debate on discrimination is rightly referred to as 'polarising', whereas we should be aiming for a society full of compassion and compassion for each other. For the first time, an annual report on discrimination incidents and notifications has been published at national level. According to the cabinet, the report cannot directly conclude that more or less people have felt discriminated against. However, the cabinet acknowledges that only one in eight I repeat: one in eight of the eight cases of discrimination are reported and therefore discrimination is excluded. This is a shocking fact. How is that possible? Is there only a symptom response in the incident area, despite all local approach strategies in consultation with experts, municipalities and police forces? How else can we explain that the number of reports of discrimination is rising and the vast majority of them are not reported? Like the Party for Animals, the Cabinet sees the immense importance of a structural approach to discrimination through, for example, appropriate educational programmes with very small classes and intensive guidance. Does the cabinet agree with me that good, legal compliance and strict enforcement is the least that a reliable government should provide citizens in a civilised society? In this context, cross-border discrimination also deserves much more attention. For unclear reasons of specificism, people believe that the life of other species has significantly less meaning than that of a human being. The degree of intelligence is often given as a measure, but this cannot be an explanation for the fact that the pig that is more intelligent than the dog is considered edible as opposed to the dog. Discrimination can only be effectively combated if others than ourselves are respected in their natural needs, opinions, lifestyles and other essential features. An animal's life is as important to that animal as my life is to me. The same applies, as far as I am concerned, to other people's beliefs, habits, origins or characteristics of beings. Finally. Discrimination can only be combated with great potential if there is only one limit to understanding and compassion with the other: the freedom of one ends where the freedom of another begins. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. With you, we have come to the end of the first term of office. You may stand here, because colleagues would also like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m.
