ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Laçin, on behalf of the SP, for his question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management on noise pollution at Schiphol Airport. Now you can make an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President, I'm going to take advantage of that. I'll start with my introduction. Last Friday we saw in the news that the residents of Spaarndam have requested measurement data of the noise pollution of Schiphol. And what does it turn out to be? The noise that has been measured is much higher than what has been brought out for years, because Schiphol does not measure its noise, but calculates it. That's ridiculous, of course. You're not awake from calculations. You're awake from airplane noise. Schiphol is an important employer, but that's not a free pass to squeak around the residents and the Chamber, cheat and barge. I want to have every debate with this minister, but on the basis of truths and facts. Is this Minister prepared to simply measure the nuisance again instead of calculating? Those gauges are just there. They were placed by Schiphol themselves. Why aren't they used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Laçin is right. You need to be able to rely on the sound load data, not just around Schiphol, but everywhere. There must be no ambiguity about that. For this reason, I would also very much like to talk to the Working Group on Schiphol Spaarndam to put the data they have obtained next to ours to see where those differences come from. Do you have to change the system? For the future, of course, you can only use models, calculations. That's what's being done. In addition, the 500,000 radar tracks that are available each year of all flights as they have flown are mapped afterwards and compared with those measurements. If there are real differences between them, the calculation method will be adjusted accordingly. In this case, therefore, I would very much like to see where these differences are at present, because there should be no ambiguity about this at all. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thanks, but I hear it again! I hear again that the Minister puts on the penance rug and then says: yes, I want to talk to the people and I want to regain the trust of the people. We have heard this before, for example in previous debates on this subject. But when it comes to the point, I have the feeling that this minister does not choose the people, but again the aviation lobby and the unbridled growth in aviation. These measurements were requested by the association of residents and did not come to light by a comparison by the Ministry with the calculations. No, the residents' association requested those measurements and made this clear. These measurements show that 210,000 people experience severe noise. This contrasts with the much lower number indicated by Schiphol, some 117.000 people. 210,000 people! That is as many people as in a city the size of Tilburg, the sixth largest city in the Netherlands. Is this Minister prepared to block Schiphol's expansion plans until there is more clarity about these numbers and about the actual nuisance? We have already heard it in the last few months. Schiphol shouts loudly that Schiphol can and must grow, but it turns out again that Schiphol is exceeding its own standards and is pushing aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Before I say it's not right, I'd like to know exactly the seam of the stocking. I would like to table with the working party to see exactly where the differences are. Is it true it's such an anomaly? I stand at the bar to ensure that we remain within the legally agreed limits with regard to noise limits. That's what I'm really gonna look at. If that is not the case now, then we will have to intervene. I need to know for sure first. So I would like to have a conversation with the people to see how exactly that can be reconciled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	I understand. I understand very well that you want to talk to the people, but those readings are correct. This is not about numbers that people make up, but about measurements that they have requested. This shows that 210,000 people experience serious noise. Another point is that not only in Spaarndam the people have been paged, fooled and boarded, because also in Gelderland, Overijssel and Friesland residents are being shipholdd. Again, it has been determined residents and volunteers of action group HoogOverijssel, who have shown that nothing is true of the calculations that have been made around Lelystad. This is not the first case in which calculations and measurements do not match. They are now saying that the airspace must be reorganised before Lelystad Airport can open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	I haven't asked my question yet, Mr President. Is the Minister prepared to block the opening of Lelystad Airport until this has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Well, you do shoot a little bit in the overdrive, because the people I've already had the pleasure of speaking them twice haven't said there's nothing wrong with those calculations. Mistakes have been made and shortcomings have indeed emerged. We have also really acknowledged that this is the case. That is something we must avoid for the future. I think it is very important to put what we have measured in practice with those 30 measuring posts, and the results of these measurements are simply to be found on the internet next to the calculations and to see where the differences are. Depending on that, we're going to decide whether we need to make adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have one more comment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, I'm not. You are already over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	I just want to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	You may then ask a supplementary question via the interrupting microphone. If I allow you to make another comment, I must allow everyone to do so. So I have to be a little strict, no matter how hard that sounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	We also had this debate on measuring and measuring versus calculating last week. Then I asked the Minister the following. At present, all plans around Schiphol and aviation are made on the basis of calculations. We measure sound in the Netherlands, but we do not use these measurements to strengthen the calculations. The Minister said that this is the case. Now she talks with residents who have demonstrated that calculations are incorrect on the basis of NOMOS data about Schiphol. I would very much like to ask the Minister once again to send a letter to the Chamber explaining how measurement point data, i.e. measurements, are currently included in the calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Kröger mentioned it: for the plans you use calculations. There is no other way, because these plans are in the future. Meanwhile, the measuring points are there and are placed in good consultation with the surrounding area. A municipality may ask for a measuring point at a given location, for example because it receives most noise complaints. The question is to put that next to each other. That is also looked at afterwards. We comply with all European regulations, to do this kind of calculations by default, but I am open to suggestions for improvement. First we just have to look at what is now and be as careful as we are. On the basis of what has appeared in the news, I cannot do that, so I would like to contact the working group to put his data next to ours and then find out where the differences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	I do have a suggestion to the Minister for an improvement. Schiphol can hide behind the pronunciation "we meet the legal standards." Of course Schiphol meets that; it would be very strange if it didn't. My question is whether the Minister, when she has spoken to the group and found that half the country is in rebellion, is prepared to look at the legal rules on which Schiphol bases itself as a result of the discussion. Apparently, there's something wrong with that. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	If the discussion with these working groups shows that there are really big differences, then of course we will have to sit down with each other to see how we are going to improve this whole system. I stand at the bar to ensure that the noise level actually remains within the agreed standards. That's what I'm gonna do. If the current system is not sufficient, we will have to change it, but I will have to have all the data on the table first. There's no point in doing that out of the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	I see that you would like to ask another question, Mr Van Raan, but Mr Wassenberg had already asked a question. Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	I actually think it's okay that we're measuring "to measure" but we also know that we're calculating, because with that we can unlock a lot more data, which every time recalibrates our models. My question to the Secretary of State concerns Mr Laçin's comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	To the Minister. I have to say it right! Excuse me. Mr Laçin says he is coming one way for the locals. Yeah, we all feel that way about each other. The neighbors want transparent data. They're entitled to that. On the other hand, Mr Laçin is calling for murder and fire at the moment when cargo flights can no longer land at Schiphol Airport. It's either one or the other. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Who is the question addressed to, Mr. Remco Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	My question is addressed to the Minister. Isn't it a little hypocritical to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	...to say you're standing up for the residents while you're screaming murder and fire in the Chamber at the same time when there are firing requests from cargo at Schiphol Airport, while Mr. Laçin actually wants to lock down airports? How does the Minister feel about this? Isn't there a double standard in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. I shall, of course, first of all give the floor to Mr Laçin because he is being addressed. He's glad to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	Of course. I'm always happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Laçin, finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	This contradiction creates the VVD itself. As SP, we stand by the policy of Schiphol, which has been very wrong in recent years. Schiphol has brought in all kinds of low-cost carriers and Middle East carriers at the expense of the freight flights that Mr Dijkstra talks about and what we stand for. We stand up for real jobs, for enough freight flights at Schiphol Airport so that people can keep their jobs. We are not like the VVD for unbridled growth without even listening to the people that matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	This was extra time for the SP, given by the VVD. It's being broadcast live, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I'm going to see the Minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	My mission is to arrive at a pure, comprehensive balance of all interests. In this context, I am committed to ensuring that legally agreed noise standards are respected and that we do not go beyond that. I think we'll always need a combination of calculations and measurements, because you can't put a measuring point at every house. Of course, those 30 can never cover everything. So you'll always need calculations. But I'm open to seeing if we can and should improve the system somewhere. I'd like to come back to your room afterwards if I know exactly the seam of the stocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	Do you have a deadline in mind for informing the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	Of course, I must first consult with the group from Spaarndam. I can't see when that conversation can take place and when we've been able to validate all that data. But let's just say I can at least say it at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	Okay. Thank you.
