ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are going to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD for his question to the Minister of Security and Justice about the message "Traised by a family member."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister two specific questions about the use of DNA in criminal matters. That's what I want to do in response to an article in Trouw that I read last weekend. In the United Kingdom, it is evidently possible to take DNA from suspects after each arrest. I have always understood that something similar in the Dutch system would not be possible. This would be contrary, inter alia, to the European Convention on Human Rights. Can the Minister explain to me how this is possible in the United Kingdom? After all, that country is bound by the same treaty. And can the Minister explain to me, or investigate further, whether DNA extraction as designed in the United Kingdom also leads to a higher chance of getting caught by criminals? The article in Trouw also mentions an expert who would run into all kinds of restrictions when it comes to the possibility of tracing a DNA profile from old blood samples from sex offenders, for example. This is technically possible now, and it might also be possible to resolve so-called cold cases in this way. I don't really understand why this isn't possible. Is that even true? How does the Minister view this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Oosten commented on the article in Trouw last Saturday in which a comparison is made between English practice regarding DNA removal in suspects of crime and Dutch practice. In England DNA is collected from all suspects, while in the Netherlands DNA is collected in case of suspicion of a serious crime, a type of crime for which a conditional conviction is also possible. And DNA can be taken from people convicted of such a serious crime. In the past, English practice has been overqualified by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. For this reason, the English legislator has adapted the practice, in the sense that DNA is still collected from all suspects but that the DNA of suspects is stored separately from the DNA of convicted persons and that there is a shorter retention period. This new practice in England has never been submitted to the Strasbourg Court, so it has never been checked whether it is permitted. However, my predecessor asked the Council of State and a number of experts at Erasmus University whether such a system would be allowed in the Netherlands. The opinion of the Council of State and those experts at Erasmus University was that this is probably contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. "Probably" because there is no harsh pronunciation. In fact, we are in a rather uncertain situation: there is no hard verdict and the treaty is from before the time when someone could even imagine that DNA removal would be possible. All judgments in this regard are therefore based on court rulings. Mr Van Oosten asks whether we can see whether English practice is applicable in the Netherlands. As a result of the investigation of the murder of Mrs Borst O'Brien, that was the investigation into Mr Bart van U. The practice of DNA collection in the Netherlands has been strengthened. An evaluation will take place in the course of 2018. I think it is logical to go into the comparison between the English situation and the Dutch situation in that evaluation again and to look at the benefits that this brings, for example, on the basis of Mr Van Oosten's question as to whether this leads to a higher rate of resolution in England. So I suggest we get back to it. The second question concerns the remark in the article that the NFI has a stock of blood samples that could possibly be used for DNA sampling. These are blood samples that were taken before DNA collection was possible and usual, i.e. before 1994. So that blood was taken for another purpose, namely to see if the blood type was the same as the blood type found in the spore test. It is certainly not natural to use blood samples taken for a particular purpose, for which permission was actually requested at the time, for another purpose. It will not be possible to do so automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	On that second point, I should like to make a comment. If we in the Netherlands organize it in such a way that you also form a coldcase team within the police that is working day in and day out to solve unsolved cases, while the solution may be on the shelf, namely a blood sample where you could distil a DNA profile with modern technology, I would be sorry if we did not do everything we could to see if that could be legally possible. Maybe we can at least ask these people to find out if the DNA profile that can be traced from it matches other criminal cases that could be solved. Who knows what they'll say? I think we owe it to our stand to go after it. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that. The second point, which I have just mentioned as a first point in my introduction, concerns the system as it exists in England. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment to include this in the evaluation. I know, of course, that this evaluation is coming, but I have taken note of this and understood that there will now be specific attention to the question of whether what can apparently be done in England and what is apparently considered lawful by all those experts, is also possible in the Netherlands. I find it very difficult to understand expert reports from universities and from the Council of State when I read fairly firmly that it is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, whereas another country, which is just as well bound by that Convention and which undoubtedly has all kinds of expert institutes and so on, says that it does, nevertheless, do so and considers it to be justified. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is taking this particular point and I await that point with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Minister, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yes. With regard to the first point, it is true that there should be a real request for permission to use the old blood samples for DNA sampling. That is, of course, a very large, complex operation in practice. I am prepared to present, as part of that same evaluation, whether that would be feasible and what that could yield, but without such permission, you really cannot use those blood samples. The other point was: really carefully looking into what is happening in England and what this will provide for the possibilities of solving crimes and whether this would also be applicable in the Netherlands. I'd be happy to say so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
