ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u1	Mr. Chairman. My congratulations to Mrs Kikken for having accepted this initiative proposal from her former colleague, Mr Van Laar. It takes drive and perseverance to guide an initiative proposal through Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The fight against child labour is a very important issue for my group. It is certainly not a marginal phenomenon. Child labour is unfortunately a common phenomenon in many countries and often part of a culture of poverty, a culture in which all family members are employed to keep their heads above water. The ILO has estimated that more than 150 million children were forced to work in 2016, some 70 million of them in jobs that pose a direct threat to their health and safety, such as textiles and carpet weaving, coffee and cocoa plantations and tin and gold mines. These are mainly Asia, the Pacific and Africa. 150 million vulnerable children, more than Russia's population, who are cut off from primary necessities such as security, care and education. Children whose development is blocked and who cannot grow up uninhibited, children who, at a very young age, make long hours for a small amount of pay under often miserable conditions. A flagrant violation of their rights, which means that producers can sell their products on the world market at absurdly low prices and thus create an uneven playing field on which it is difficult for good-willing companies to compete. Fortunately, the figures also show that child labour is falling globally. Since the turn of the century, however, this decline has stagnated again in recent years. Child labour is unacceptable. International action is necessary. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are rightly ambitious in this respect. The world community is called upon to take measures that will make child labour a thing of the past by 2025, measures that will eliminate forced child labour. The ILO, the OECD and the EU are also frequently reminded this morning that directives have been issued to combat child labour. National efforts are equally needed to stop child labour. In this context, my group sees this initiative proposal. Now everything is happening in the Netherlands. I am thinking of initiatives and agreements on corporate social responsibility, the efforts of trade unions, children's rights organisations and NGOs, the involvement of civil society organisations and churches and the public procurement conditions. Mrs Kuik's letter of 17 October has given us another picture of this. However, as several speakers said at the expert meeting in early October, these agreements, initiatives and the legislative proposal before us are mutually reinforcing. Or, as Mrs Van der Meij of the MVO Platform concluded, there is talk of communicating vessels. That is how my group sees it. It's about and-and not about or-or. Moreover, these sectoral agreements are much wider than child labour alone. Can the initiator and the minister recognize themselves in this finding? I understand, moreover, that companies that have signed these agreements fulfil their duty of care under this bill. Can that be confirmed? At the heart of this bill is that consumers who purchase products on the Dutch market may assume that the companies that offer these products will do everything to ensure that these products are not made with the use of children. If a company defaults several times, there is even a criminal offence. By means of a declaration, companies indicate that their products are child labour-free. In this way, my group believes that the legislative proposal fits in with a much broader need for information among consumers in order to make the production process of goods and services transparent. This concerns energy consumption, environmental impact and health impacts. Non-use of child labour fits well with that. Consumers, according to research, do not want products made with child labour, but they can only turn their attitude into behaviour if they also have the necessary product and production information. It is therefore a good thing that the House of Representatives that asks for the register to be made public with a company statement received majority support. I have already indicated that there are the necessary initiatives to combat child labour, but this bill provides a legal anchor to the duty of care of companies not to sell goods on the Dutch market made with child labour. And that is where the added value lies for my group. Mr. Chairman. This shared urgency of the underlying problem of child labour must not, of course, prevent the legislation itself from seeing sound and meeting high standards. The Council of State was critical, particularly on issues such as justification, feasibility, supervision and enforcement. My group notes that the original author of the legislative proposal has dealt seriously with this criticism. The same applies to the treatment in the Lower House. We count no less than five notes of amendment. Nevertheless, there are still concerns, important concerns, which I would like to share. In the first instance, the ACM was considered to be the most appropriate regulator. Afterwards this was formulated more openly and at the expert meeting it became clear that the ACM itself sees little benefit in this role. Alternatively, during the meeting the Inspection SZW and the NCP were mentioned. Can the initiator and the Minister give their views on this issue? Shouldn't this point be settled clearly? Has there been any consultation with the ACM? It seems to me that the budget for the supervisor, EUR 1 million, is very modest. Indeed, in-depth research will often be required to identify that production chain. Evidence is crucial. The chance for companies who knowingly go wrong must be substantial. The effectiveness of the bill should not be affected by this. Monitoring must be clearly regulated. My group needs clarification on these points. A reference to the AMvB is not sufficient in this respect. We're talking about difficult matters. Consumer goods production processes often extend over extensive and long chains with different suppliers and intermediaries and sometimes also in different countries. It is not always easy to get the use of child labour in these chains above the table for companies that are at the end of the pipeline. Does the initiator have any idea of the cooperation of Dutch companies to take on that responsibility that the bill asks of them? Is there support? What is the latest state of affairs on this point? VNO-NCW and SME Netherlands are critical and prefer to focus on the CSR agreements. Last week we received a letter in which a large number of CEOs from internationally operating Dutch companies gave their support to the bill. I won't repeat them here, but they're companies of name and fame. The essence of the bill is that companies, based on due diligence, in good Dutch, have to investigate whether their product has been manufactured using child labour in order to draw up, if necessary, a plan of action with measures to counter this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u2	I would like to come back to the observations on imvo and on how this initiative law is actually being dealt with in different ways by industry. I also made a little call from the companies on that list of Tony's Chocolonely. Most consider it to be a very sympathetic and important objective that something should be done about child labour, but if I go through the question then I find that perhaps the technical aspects of the law have been less thought about by the people who have said that they will sign the petition. So that's one side of the story. On the other hand, I am curious to see how the colleague of the Christian Union feels that, for example, it is said from the angle of VNO-NCW: if we have this law, the companies will sit back and do not want to work for them anymore and may lead to a decline. So on the one hand there are companies that go for the sympathetic goal and on the other hand there are companies that say: when legislation comes, we do not want to participate in these covenants anymore. How does Mr Ester view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u3	They could be different companies. That seems to me to be the first answer. As far as my group is concerned, if so many companies of name and fame indicate to the First Chamber that they are committed to the bill, that is a signal that I take very seriously, not to belittle and, above all, to consider the basis for this bill. That's one. The second point you are pointing out is whether companies would not be able to sit back afterwards. To be honest, I find that a bit of an occasional argument, not from you, but from those companies themselves and from the sectors they represent. Of course, you can turn it around and say that this legislation is obviously now needed. The colleague of the SP made that point in detail because these companies are now reclining. That is also a frame that is possible and I feel, quite frankly, a bit more comfortable with that than with the opposite reasoning. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I asked about the state of play. I indicated that VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands are critical and I focused on the letter from the CEOs, which the intervention was just about. The obvious question about the plan of action is whether a practical, uniform format is also available and what minimum conditions apply to it. Surely that would be of great benefit to the intended care. It is, as I said, complex matter. The explanatory statement indicates that the Minister will consult with the social partners in order to provide support to companies. For my group, that sounds just too non-committal. I would like to ask you to add a little more text and explanation, because we believe that the more professional the support for the production chain is, the more effective and efficient the legislative proposal will increase. This certainly applies to the smaller companies. Partly in this light, it is important what concrete matters will now be dealt with in the AMvB. I would also like a response to that. The Act, President, is expected to enter into force in 2020. That gives companies time to get their shit together. These are certainly companies that are already working on these agreements. That stick behind the door, as I understand it, is mainly intended for companies that are lagging behind. The penalty itself ranges from an administrative fine to criminalisation. The notice of formal notice is governed by the Law on Economic Crimes. I would like to ask whether there is also a need for a separate legislative amendment and, if so, what is the timetable envisaged. I also particularly have the question of how sanctions are imposed on and implemented by foreign companies and Internet companies. That seems almost impossible to me. All in all, Mr President, my group notes that basic elements of the legislative proposal I referred to as supervision and enforcement are further developed in the AMvB. That makes it a little difficult to assess the effectiveness of the bill. There are decisive criteria in the assessment of the Upper Chamber of such legislative proposals. My group seriously needs a thorough explanation of both points. The House of Representatives has asked for a heavy suspension procedure and Minister Ploumen has also promised it. I assume that the new minister will honour this commitment. I like to hear that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, three specific questions to the Minister. The government agreement mentions the intention to increase the Fund's fight against child labour within the budget for development cooperation. This amounts to around 7 million. My group would like to hear how this intention relates to the primary objective of the legislative proposal now before us. How does this proposal fit into the wider policy and what are the current ambitions? Child labour is a complicated and layered problem, but so is the fight against it. The subject of supervision, enforcement and sanctions clearly shows this. Today's debate and its preparation also illustrate this. The bill provides for an evaluation of the law after five years. My group would like to ask the Minister, in view of this subject matter, to review the law a little bit more broadly than is now foreseen, including as regards the position of foreign companies and online companies selling products on the Dutch market. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. Then there's my last question. Last month, the Global Conference on the Sustained Eradication of Child Labour took place in Buenos Aires. Was our country represented and did the conference lead to new insights? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. This bill does not put an end to the poignant phenomenon of child labour. The problem is too deeply rooted, both economically and culturally. This is mainly due to changes in the countries themselves, but I do not think that is the intention of this initiative proposal. However, the Netherlands shows that child labour takes seriously: business and consumers are given a role in the fight against child exploitation. I hope that this role can be leveraged. This positive approach is without prejudice to the fact that my group has identified a number of fundamental issues relating to the legislative proposal. I look forward to the answers of the initiator and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to this House. We wish her a successful period as a minister and sincerely hope that she will repeat an effective contribution to reducing child labour worldwide. I would also like to welcome Mrs Kuik here as the initiator and defender of this bill. 152 million children sigh in the world under the heavy burden of labor. 90% of them are in Africa and Asia. 71% of all child labour takes place in agriculture, both for commercial and personal maintenance. I have derived these figures from the latest ILO report, "Global Estimates of Child Labour: Results and Trends 2012-2016." 150 million children, Madam President. Although this is less than the 168 million mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the present bill, it is still about nine times the total population of the Netherlands. Despite all the global and European human rights and children's rights treaties, the ILO agreements, the UN binding treaty on business and human rights, the commitments made in the OECD directives, the EU resolution, adopted on 12 September last, and the agreements made at the ILO conference in Buenos Aires on 16 November. The Financial Times, European edition, recently announced, on 23 November, that the London Metal Exchange has launched this month an investigation into possible cobalt produced by child labour of children from 7 years of age from the mines in Congo, which would be used by Chinese companies in the manufacture of rechargeable batteries. Worldwide efforts are now being made to reduce child labour to zero by 2025. The present proposal seeks to contribute to this and has also been submitted by the initiator with this intention. My group would like to express its admiration here for the efforts that the initiator Roelof van Laar has been making for years to help child labour out of the world. The Foundation for Combating Child Labour has been created partly thanks to its continuing commitment. Mrs Kuik, too, would like to commend my group for the careful way in which it has taken up the defence of this proposal. Madam President, it goes without saying that my group, too, supports and strongly supports the fight against and eradication of child labour in the world, and I repeat, effective initiatives and measures to this end. I don't think there's anyone in this house who wouldn't be willing to cooperate. The question of what is involved in dealing with this bill is therefore not whether we are in favour of child labour or against child labour, but whether this bill, as it is now before us, is an effective and feasible means of reducing child labour in the world. The book 'BITTER Chocolate Stories', which I received during the hand-off of the signature campaign last Tuesday in this house, in which a number of children report on the exploitation of cocoa plantations in Côte d'Ivoire, I read with attention. They are indeed bitter stories. They were all brought to the plantations by close family, friends or acquaintances of the parents and exploited there for years, some even since their sixth year. And not even against a cheap paycheck, they often didn't get anything. They've never tasted chocolate in their lives. Involuntarily, our thoughts go back to the Netherlands in the second half of the nineteenth century. Here, too, child labour took place and a legislative initiative was tabled against it. On September 19, 1874, the Groningen Liberal MP Sam van Houten accepted his proposal that if the children's law of Van Houten would go into history. It contained only five articles after amendment, namely: 1. a ban on the employment of children under the age of 12. Article 2 contained exceptions to that prohibition for domestic and personal services and field work. That would have been done by amendment, against his will, of course. 3. Liability in the event of an infringement of the principals or directors of the undertakings, with the possibility of discrimination. 4. A criminal sanction, fine and/or imprisonment; in the event of repeated imprisonment. Finally, a transitional provision for a gradual introduction. In the first year the ban was valid for children under 10 years of age and in the second year for children under 11 years of age. Van Houten's children's law was the very first law in the Netherlands in the field of social legislation. For that reason alone, it has become and remained famous, and here in this house this morning and this afternoon also mentioned a few times. Earlier attempts have been made to improve the condition of the workers, but without them leading to legislation and government intervention. It was the swallow that does not yet bring spring, but it would go too far to say that it has had no effect, as we can often read in modern history books nowadays. All overwritten, without further investigation! The parliamentary survey of 1886/1887 was the direct result of it. That survey was conducted, among other things, to check the operation of the child law. The investigation was anything but complete. Sampling was carried out on a number of sites in the Netherlands, including Maastricht, the most industrialised area in the Netherlands, Amsterdam, the most varied industrial area in the Netherlands, and Tilburg, especially in textiles. Due to lack of time, inter alia in connection with the 1887 Constitutional Review, the Amsterdam Committee of Inquiry was only able to examine very incompletely and, for example, it was no longer at all in the hands of Twente or Groningen. Nevertheless, the Committee of Inquiry's report struck like a bomb in 1887. That was not because there were still children under 12 years of age working in the factories and workshops on a large scale. Most entrepreneurs had generally applied the statutory prohibition of 1874 and complied reasonably with it. The law was actually implemented. In Maastricht and Roermond, the Public Prosecutor's Office had prosecuted a total of 82 entrepreneurs between 1874 and 1886. Of these, 65 have actually been sentenced to a fine. You can read it all in the re-release of the parliamentary survey entitled An Evil Life. It's under the Maastricht interviews on page 3. However, the report of the parliamentary survey showed that children under 12 years of age were still heavily exploited in the field and in housework. Also the condition of the children over 12 years old, of the women and of the adult men was awesome. The title and re-release of this parliamentary survey therefore included the life of the workers in the Netherlands in a nutshell together with "an evil life." It was this parliamentary inquiry into the operation of the child law, so it was not even a legislative proposal that brought the first spring breeze to improve the position of the workers. The next, also first, Christian cabinet, led by one of the former parliamentary surveyors and Minister of Justice in that cabinet, Gustave Ruijs de Beerenbrouck, would establish the first labour law banning field work for children under 12 years of age, a maximum working time for women and young people was set for a very long time: eleven hours a day and Sunday free work and a public labour inspection was set up, which was competent to carry out unsolicited checks in the factories. Three labor inspectors, it's not much, but it was a start. From then on, new labour legislation continued and continued. This was done initially in sub-areas. But it would still take up to 1919, 45 years after Van Houten's children's law, before the Catholic minister Aalberse in the first Ruijs de Beerenbrouck, Charles Ruijs in this case, son of Gustave, received his Labour Act, which laid down the 8-hour working day and 45-hour working week for all, including and for the first time for adult male workers. Madam President. It is perhaps nice to mention that after the vote the entire House of Representatives has burst in loud singing. First, the left side out of full breast put in the socialist song of the eight-hour day, after which the right side stood up as one man. At that time, the parliamentarians were just memorized of that. Why am I telling you so much about Van Houten's child law? Because that initiative law was as clear as it was effective. Unfortunately, and we sincerely regret to have to observe this, my group cannot say the same about the legislative proposal before us. We believe that this bill will not reduce child labour worldwide. Our objections relate in particular to the following points. First of all, the purpose of the law is not clear. The law does not prohibit child labour, but protects Dutch consumers, end-users, from products and services manufactured or provided by children, who are sold or offered in the Netherlands. Why isn't there just a ban on child labour in the law? It is possible to impose restrictions on the free movement of goods and services within the European Union, provided that such measures are necessary and proportionate. The Netherlands, like so many other countries, has committed itself to human rights treaties, child rights treaties, ILO conventions, covenants, OECD directives and so on. We believe that this should be sufficient to justify a direct ban on child labour. A number of these conventions contain all binding provisions, which have direct effect in the Netherlands and to which economic operators also have to comply. Unlike, for example, in the UK, these international conventions do not need to be transformed into national law first, but are already part of our own national legislation. Entrepreneurs can therefore be called upon to do so. Why this improper way of banning child labour? Why is there not just a ban on child labour in this law? I would like to receive a reasoned response from the initiator. Entrepreneurs shall be imposed only on an effort obligation, not on a result obligation. That is the second point of criticism. It is also, as I understand it, virtually impossible to guarantee that a product is 100% child labour-free. Even Tony's Chocolonely can't guarantee that. However, compliance with an effort obligation is very difficult to measure, especially if it is left to the operators themselves to a large extent. When will the effort be sufficient? When is the penalty and/or penalty worthy? Who decides? Please provide a reasoned response from the initiator. The third point of criticism: the system of the law is not clear. For example, the definition and definition of essential concepts - I mention a few: "appropriate care', "reasonable presumption', "plan of approach', "statement', "sources reasonably known and consultable for the company' - are left to a general administrative measure to be taken. This may be even worse by being delegated to other bodies. According to this bill, this AMvB does not need to be placed before both Chambers, at least the law makes no provision for that. A commitment by the former minister in the Lower House and perhaps by the current minister in the Upper Chamber would only give the guarantee that the first AMvB would be placed before the States-General, but subsequent changes to those AMvB would no longer have to be put forward. Amendment, addition and extension of these essential concepts is, in our firm opinion, a matter for the legislator itself, and not for the government itself, see Article 8 (3) of the Treaty, or for the Minister alone. See Article 5 (4). If this bill is accepted, will we not accept an empty shell and will its concrete content not be determined elsewhere? Who determines the final content? The government, by or under AMvB? The Minister? The supervisor? Another agency? The NGO? The CDA? Why is the definition of these concepts not simply incorporated into the law? I would like to hear the motivation of the initiator on this point. I do not expect to see why these essential concepts are not in the law itself, as usual. My group also asks the Minister to make a reasoned statement on this matter. Does it not agree with us that such essential concepts should be defined in the law itself for the implementation of the law? The age of children, when child labour is prohibited, is not clear. Article 2 mentions three different ages: up to 18 years of age, up to 15 years of age and exemption for light work for children from 13 years of age. This makes it unclear and complicated for entrepreneurs to determine exactly when child labour is prohibited. Why wasn't there just one age chosen, and then preferably as late as possible? Why didn't we opt for a transparent, unambiguous determination of age? Can the initiator make it clear from what age child labour is prohibited? 13 years, 15 years or 18 years? Furthermore, it is unclear who will be the supervisor; it has been said before. The supervisor has an important role to play. After all, he or she can issue administrative fines. For this reason alone, they should be designated by the law itself, and not, as is the case in the present proposal, by AMvB, see Article 1 (d) of the Treaty, which, moreover, is not before both Chambers of the States-General. In the Lower House itself, the initiator has expressed a preference for a new supervisor to be appointed. But the initiator may also agree if, for example, the Authority Consumer & Markt, the ACM, is chosen. However, Ms Van Buchem, director of the ACM, said here at the expert meeting: "As you have read in our written contribution, the ACM supports any effective and feasible proposal that prevents child labour. However, I have serious doubts about the feasibility of monitoring compliance with this bill." It is not the only one who has serious doubts about the feasibility of supervision in this area. The Advisory Section of the Council of State also expressed these serious doubts, as has already been mentioned. Several other sides underlined these doubts at the expert meeting. We too have serious doubts about the feasibility of this proposal; it will no longer be a secret. Why didn't the initiator just appoint the regulator in the bill itself? Who sees the minister as the most ideal supervisor? That is what my group is looking forward to. Does it not agree with us that a possible regulator should be appointed by the law itself rather than by AMvB, partly in view of the far-reaching powers he or she has, inter alia by imposing those administrative fines? Please provide reasoned answers to our questions. With regard to the sanctions, the initiator opted for a three-stage rocket: first a warning, then an administrative fine and finally, in the event of a recurrence, a criminal route. Where an administrative authority is imposed, an appeal and appeal may be lodged. This means that there can and will certainly be endless proceedings, which will allow the payment of any fine to be suspended. I am not even talking about the costs involved in all these procedures. In the meantime, a possible mispolicy can be stretched for years and years. Wouldn't the bill gain in effectiveness if at least the criminal route had been chosen immediately? In contrast to the ACM, the Public Prosecutor's Office, provided that it has sufficient resources, has the possibility of carrying out effective research beyond the Dutch borders if necessary. Human rights violations, in particular slavery and so on, are crimes against humanity. They can be prosecuted anywhere. I'd like a motivated response from the initiator. The wording of the entrepreneur's statement that the final product to be sold has not been co-produced by children is also unclear. The initiator has opted for freedom of form in order to avoid administrative and bureaucratic burdens. But is this not exactly creating an unclear twilight zone to be avoided? When is the statement correct? According to the initiator, the wording can be worded in one sentence: "I declare that I am complying with the OECD child labour directives." Such a short wording would not create additional bureaucratic and administrative burdens, would it not? Why isn't this wording just incorporated into the law? What about an incorrect statement? Is that in itself susceptible to an administrative fine? Is it a crime? If so, who investigates the inaccuracies or correctness? Who determines its inaccuracies? Please provide a reasoned answer from the initiator to these questions. Both the time of entry into force and the termination of the law is left to a royal decree in this bill. The date of entry into force is not until 1 January 2020, but there is also no obligation in the legislative proposal to bring the law into force. So theoretically it is possible that the bill never comes into force. Is it not also true that a law can only be rendered ineffective by a new law, and not just by royal decree? I would like a response from the initiator and from the minister to this. A bigger problem is that there is no comprehensive approach to the whole issue of child labour in this legislative proposal. In essence, addressing the issue of child labour is not effective at national level. Child labour is global and therefore needs to be addressed at international level and at least at European level. The time seems now ripe for this, especially with regard to the target set at the World Trade Organisation 2025, no more child labour and in the light of recent developments. In the clothing industry, for example in India, the integrated approach seems to have been successful here and there, and also in the IMVO agreements, which advocate an integrated approach, this seems to have been successful. If, as in this legislative proposal, one opts for a national approach, I am not against it in principle, by the way, it should at least be consistent with recent legislation from other European countries, such as France, Germany, Switzerland and the UK, which advocate a more comprehensive approach to the problem. After all, if I have understood correctly, they are not limited to consumer protection against child labour, but they are also aimed at dealing directly with forced labour, slave labour, and they are for living wages, for trade union freedom and for compulsory education for children, briefly for addressing human rights violations in their entirety. Once again, in order to do that, we in the Netherlands do not even need a new law. All these rights, all these treaties, we have long signed and they are valid in the Netherlands. That's right. It will also make it easier to engage in cooperation with the various players at the same time, such as NGOs, businesses, trade unions, local and national authorities, who can mutually support each other in the fight against human rights violations. Collaboration between the different partners, "stakeholders" in good Dutch, in the fight against child labour is even essential, as the expert meeting clearly demonstrated, and so it is clear from all the stories of people or companies who want to combat child labour, precisely in order to push the deeper suppliers in the chain into new policies and to prevent companies from moving out of the poorest areas because of the ban on child labour, thereby making the law a counter-productive effect and making life worse for those children from evil to worse. Mediation, subsidies, schools, in short positive incentives, are often more effective than imposing administrative fines or criminal sanctions. To take another look at our own past: in the Netherlands, child labour has only actually been reduced by the introduction of the Law on compulsory education, which entered into force on 1 January 1901 for children aged 6 to 12 years. At the time, the bill was accepted by the smallest possible majority in the House of Representatives, 49 against and 50 votes in favour. Among the opponents was the SDAP. The votes would have been stopped and the bill would have been rejected, if it had not been for Count Schimmelpenninck's horse to cast off his rider, so that he could not be present in time to cast his vote against him. The horse has become famous as the horse that was wiser than its master. Moreover, it should also be noted that before and after school children, especially in agriculture and in our homes, often had to work overtime. Finally, my group would like to hear a response from the initiator to the opposition from the field that the voluntary participation in due diligence in the framework of the association agreements based on an integrated approach to the problem would be frustrated by this bill precisely because the legislative proposal merely calls for a statement and the agreement between the parties to the agreement on a much more far-reaching cooperation to combat child labour effectively. We await with tense attention the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. Go ahead, Mr. Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u7	I listened with great interest to Mrs Lokin's extensive speech. It was extremely informative. Nevertheless, I've kind of lost my way. In the first half of her speech I thought: well, in the CDA we find a supporter of a much harder legal approach to child labour and possibly related other abuses, because all the questions that Mrs Lokin put on this issue were in the direction of tightening up the legal framework. In the second half of her speech, however, she seemed to be moving in the opposite direction, the side of those who seek the solution mainly in soft law, voluntaryness, involving many different partners in a perhaps not voluntary but voluntary framework. Could Mrs Lokin indicate at what level of the two legs on which she is now staggering she will end up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u8	My argument is both ways. One thing is that I actually think that this bill is superfluous because we all have the rules as the law in force. It's about the execution. The other leg is that the bill, as it is here, is unfeasible and has great flaws. Our group has doubts as to whether this will have any effect at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u9	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u10	I have listened almost breathlessly to Mrs Lokin's fascinating speech, certainly the first part, the history of the child law of Van Houten. I Googled for a while, and I took the baby's act. It is an extremely short law, four articles and a transitional provision. Nothing about supervision, nothing about feasibility, nothing about enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u11	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u12	Well, I didn't find that. You'll have to show me later. It just says what the punishment is when you don't stick to it, at that time 3 to 25 guilders I believe, but it doesn't say who should control it then et cetera. In this sense, there is some agreement, some of which I would like to emphasise, with the proposal before us. There is clearly much more to it when it comes to implementation. But you are right, with Van Houten years later it turned out that the practice is more aggressive than that beautiful law. The necessary steps have been taken to get the feasibility going. This bill provides that before the law becomes effective, there are AMvBs in which all these matters are clearly regulated. I agree with you that it would have been better if it had been in the law itself, at least in part, but that is not the case. We have a clear view of when it will. In that sense, I do not think that the comparison with Van Houten really goes up, as you put it. Mrs Lokin also says that the law is actually superfluous, because we have all kinds of international conventions which we as a country are bound by and which entrepreneurs are also bound by. You say they have to live up to that. There too, the practice is apparently stronger than all these beautiful treaties, because they do not. What would be more beautiful than a law like this as a stick behind the door to encourage those entrepreneurs, the good ones, because they are there too, getting them moving and helping them to do so. In this sense, it is in line with your call for positive action, but practice shows that the results are very low, despite the international conventions that entrepreneurs have to abide by. If it can't be done this way, then I'm very curious how it should be done in the eyes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u13	As for Van Houten's law, the prosecution has been prosecuted if there was evidence that children under the age of 12 were employed in a company. People have actually been prosecuted and convicted. They didn't need a supervisor in that respect. Then there is the second point. In fact, this new bill hardly demands anything from entrepreneurs. The only thing they are asked to do is to make a statement. Whether it's right or wrong, no one knows. Then there is also a supervisor who is toothless, because only in the Netherlands can he investigate anything. It has no jurisdiction abroad. The D.A. has that potential, but the D.A. doesn't have the manpower and the money right now. That could be dealt with. I would say: stress more effective implementation of the legislation already in force. I would be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u14	Mrs. Vlietstra, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u15	I'll do my best. I think Mrs Lokin is a little short. That statement is a closure. Companies are asked to do research. That's not just an investigation. That is an investigation into the presence of child labour in their products. If there is any indication that child labour is involved, they must then produce a plan of action to indicate how they think about it. All that lands in that statement. That statement is a closure. You are pretending to be merely an explanation, but it is much more about the route that precedes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u16	And who's gonna control that trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u17	What is your question, Mrs Vlietstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u18	It wasn't even a question, Mr. Chairman. I had a feeling Mrs. Lokin is incomplete. Maybe I can ask that question. Doesn't Mrs Lokin miss something when she says it's just a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u19	I'm not missing anything. I have also read the bill, but I do not see how it is checked that entrepreneurs do this, except for that statement they make. That is also one of the questions I asked: who checks whether such an explanation is correct and whether that investigation has been carried out? Who controls that? The supervisor? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u20	Finally, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u21	The legislative proposal refers to an AMvB which includes requirements on the research and the plan of approach to be carried out by the company. The bill also refers to the supervisor. From all the answers we have been able to read, it is clear that the tasks, the powers and the authority responsible for monitoring are subject to further consultation, including with the field. We also have the question that Mrs Lokin is right to put, but I am concerned that there is much more to it than simply drawing up a one-line statement saying that nothing is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u22	That's our problem. The development of all these matters should be included in the AMvB. How can we decide on this bill without having just the beginning of an AMvB content? My whole plea is aimed at including that in the bill itself. We've got two years. It won't be two years until the bill becomes law. So we would have two years to make it a good law, but then there must be a novelle. I have talked about this with the initiator and he does not see any immediate benefit in it. That is why I am not arguing for arrest or for a novella, but the bill as it stands is an empty shell. Honestly. Otherwise, of course, we'd be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u23	I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. Then it's gonna be a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u24	Mrs. Stienen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u25	I hear Mrs Lokin-Sassen say that she is on the ground with both her legs. We have experience that legislation can work, but it does not think it is good enough or not at all good enough. Suppose that in two years' time, when the evaluation of these agreements has been carried out and there are recommendations, it turns out that it is actually going too slowly and needs to be improved. Is the CDA Group prepared to consider what kind of legislation and what binding measures could be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u26	I do not know whether the CDA Group is prepared to do so, but I personally am happy to do so. In fact, I have some ideas about that, too. But that is not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u27	Well, I think we're talking about that dilemma today. On the one hand, there are many companies that say: look for the fight against child labour first what self-regulation can bring. On the other hand, there are companies that say: no, we need legislation, the norm needs to be raised and we just want regulation. I am very curious to see what Mrs Lokin-Sassen's position is in this dilemma. Perhaps she can explain that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u28	May I remind you that the Supreme Court has no right of initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u29	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u30	That's too far, too. I can refer to the child law of Van Houten, which I have given here as an example of an effective law. You could take another look at that, but on the international front. But indeed, we are not dealing here with the legislative initiative. We are talking here about the appreciation of this bill. That is what I want to limit myself to now. I am always willing to consider more effective legislation outside this Chamber and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u31	Then I understand your answer better now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-17.u32	Thank you, Mrs Lokin.
