ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State again. We have five speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mrs Marijnissen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a legislative amendment aimed at preventing doctors from being influenced by the medical equipment industry. As a SP, we very much welcome this. When you need a new artificial hip as a patient, you want to be sure that the doctor does not base the choice for a particular brand of artificial hip on the company that best courted him. Everyone will therefore agree that when a doctor chooses a particular brand of medical device, the patient's interest should always be at the forefront. As far as we are concerned, no concessions can be made. Grace should therefore be prohibited at all times. Such a ban is already regulated by law for medicinal products and, fortunately, this law also regulates medical devices. In our view, however, the law leaves room for a foot between the doors of industry. As SP, we think that's undesirable. There are exceptions to the ban on grace. These exceptions also apply to the prohibition of favour in the field of medicinal products. We think it is a missed opportunity that the government does not seem to use this law to see if we can get to a watertight system without that space. We would like to see a clear line with concrete boundaries and also a good feasibility. Isn't a ban without exceptions much clearer? Why do we not use this law, for example as a test, so that we can also remove the exceptions for the benefit of medicines? Let this perhaps be a good opportunity for the Secretary of State to show that conflict of interest in care is not tolerated by us. Allowing all kinds of exceptions, in our view, only creates grey areas, which can then be abused again. We are therefore tabling an amendment on this. According to the SP, the links between medical professionals and industry should be limited to an absolute minimum. This can be done, for example, by removing the purchase of medical devices from the doctor and hospital. What does the Secretary of State think of the idea of purchasing medical devices centrally through one purchasing organisation? Wouldn't the risk of unwanted conflicts of interest between doctor and manufacturer in central purchasing be much less? I now come to the Care Transparency Register. The SP considers the listing of a BIG number in the Transparency Register to be a good addition. This brings to an end the possibility for medical professionals to hide behind company names and thus disguise ties with industry. However, wouldn't the Transparency Register be much more effective when registration is no longer voluntary, but becomes mandatory? Can the Secretary of State explain why he is opting for self-regulation in this area? In 2015, according to a Gupta report, a profit of 1.8 billion was made by the manufacturers of medical equipment and tools. So it's not about small grunts. What good is a transparency register if we cannot have a real picture of the number of medical professionals associated with the industry? We would like to hear an explanation of this. I'm coming to the end of my story. The SP strongly supports the ban on favor for medical devices and the inclusion of the BIG number in the Healthcare Transparency Register. We would like to see a little more ambition from the government. For example, address this amendment for a consistent ban on favour, without exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Yassini of the VVD Group. I notice I forgot a piece of his name. His name is El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. You should be able to trust that when choosing the right treatment or the most appropriate tool quality is always the starting point. The choice of a particular device must be based on a medical interest and improvement of the quality of life. This confidence is harmed if it appears that the choice is based on something else, if a tool is prescribed with enthusiasm because there is the provision of money, services or valuables by the manufacturer. Something doesn't add up. When you, as a patient, have doubts about the motives of the doctor sitting across from you in the office, that doesn't make you feel right. The pharmaceutical sector has been subject to legal regulation for some time now. That's right. Since 2012, the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices has existed as a form of self-regulation. This code of conduct is an important step in the right direction. The Health Inspectorate now has no legal means to act. This is already the case in the pharmaceutical sector. That's why it makes sense to go through those rules. This bill provides the Health Care Inspectorate with the tools to act. Nothing changes for the sector as long as the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices is adhered to. If you cross the line, you'll have to deal with the inspection in the future, and that's a good thing. As a patient, you need to be able to trust that the doctor sitting across from you serves only your interest. I do have some questions for the Secretary of State. As a VVD, we think it is important that as a patient you can count on care buyers buying in hospitals for your benefit. Article 10h (2) of the bill states that healthcare institutions and insurers are covered by this law. Can the Secretary of State confirm that care buyers working for these institutions are also covered by the rules on favour? The VVD has already asked the Secretary of State to explain the consequences of this bill for the sponsorship of projects and/or activities for the benefit of independent medical scientific research. The law states that one of the requirements to be covered by the definition of favour is the apparent aim to promote the sale of medical devices. How will the Health Inspectorate interpret the apparent sales promotion? Can the Secretary of State confirm that this law will not lead to innovations being avoided by making it impossible in practice for manufacturers to finance basic research? I ask this because scientific research can also be carried out through private funding in the field of resources. Finally, Mr President. If you're sick, you want to get better as soon as possible. In addition, you should be able to rely on the doctor in the surgery to be there for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. This bill aims to regulate legal favors for medical devices. Grace is to offer money, services or goods with the aim of promoting the use of a means. Actually, a doctor is offered a present. The doctor accepts and then he may get the idea to owe the giver something. In 2015, nearly two and a half thousand doctors were paid by pharmaceutical companies. They were reimbursed for travel and subsistence expenses when they took part in a conference. They got money to have a chat or to put their name under a publication. All in all, 5.6 million euros went towards doctors. But what about those doctors going to the industry? After all, they spend millions of dollars for a reason. Research shows that the millions that the pharmaceutical companies pay doctors have been very well spent on them. Sponsored doctors prescribe the medicine three to four times as often as unsponsored doctors. Beautiful for the pharmaceutical, but caring for us. A doctor must come to his choices objectively and not as a result of flattery. He should only serve your interest, as Mr El Yassini has just said. The medical device market appears to be even more big business than the pharmaceutical market. In 2015, a profit of 1.8 billion euros was made by manufacturers of rollators and medical instruments in the Netherlands. That's a lot! It is therefore a good thing that we now have a law that restricts the service of medical devices. Although my group would have preferred this type of practice to be totally banned. For although the essence of the bill is a ban on favour, there are large exceptions, such as for training sessions, training sessions and lectures. In our view, these exceptions are too vague. For example: the fee may not exceed what is strictly necessary. I wonder what's "strictly necessary" then. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Who decides what is strictly necessary? Who controls what is strictly necessary? My group believes that choices in healthcare should be made independently and not through the appearance of bribery. Therefore, although the legislative proposal should be stricter as far as we are concerned, we do support it. Especially because it enables the inspection, the IGZ, to take enforcement action against alleged bribery practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we are discussing the legislative proposal which limits the favour of medical devices and the transparency between the industry and the medical professionals. Our group welcomes and wholeheartedly supports this initiative. Improper influence of the tool industry on healthcare professionals is not only unethical, it is ultimately not good for the patient, who wants the best quality tools based on an independent judgment. We therefore share the observation that there is a need for this law, which restricts undesirable practices between the medical devices sector and professionals. As far as the proposal is concerned, however, my group has a number of questions and comments. First of all, on the IGZ's commitment to review and enforcement of the law. What commitment does the IGZ intend to make to this end? Are there sufficient means to ensure compliance with this envisaged law? Can the Secretary of State outline a complete picture of this? As far as my group is concerned, there is also a need to improve the Transparency Register for Health. It is a good thing that this has been introduced, but unfortunately, as Mrs Marijnissen pointed out, without any mandatory character. If you have nothing to hide, why would obligation be a problem? With a mandatory transparency register, do we not offer more clarity about the links between industry and care? Does the Secretary of State agree with me? If so, how will the Secretary of State take steps in this regard? I'd like a response. It is good that the law also relates to non-BIG registered persons. They may also be guilty of receiving benefits from the medical devices sector, as the Cabinet also points out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. However, this group is not included in the Care Transparency Register. How is the Cabinet going to ensure that non-BIG registered persons also strictly enforce the law? I have another question about the accessibility and awareness of the register and about continuing attention to the proper qualification of the reported financial relations. Last year, the cabinet promised to improve it. Has this been implemented and, if not, what period is it going to take? When we talk about tackling the undesirable impact of industry on healthcare, we cannot ignore the funding of scientific research by industry. This is a complicated subject, because third-party funding for research is currently indispensable. However, this relationship between the pharmaceutical and resource industries and scientific research is at the heart of the present law. The independence of researchers, who are also invited to conferences by industry, for example, as speakers, may be put under pressure. Does the Secretary of State recognize this problem? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Is hij met GroenLinks van mening dat de grootste transparantie over deze banden tussen de industrie en onderzoek gewenst is?]] What transparency is there already about these money flows? Is it not desirable to include this funding in the Healthcare Transparency Register? Finally, given the importance of this law, I would like a periodic review of the Transparency Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. It has been found that marketing tools which involve the risk of undue influence are also used in the tool industry, similar to the pharmaceutical sector. That is why the bill that we are discussing today chooses, by analogy with the Medicines Act, to also lay down legal rules for favor in the aid sector. There is already a Code of Conduct for Medical Devices, but it is desirable to lay it down by law so that the IGZ can maintain it if necessary. The objective of preventing doctors from being affected and, as a result, prescribing devices that may not be the best choice for patients is clear and will endorse everyone, including the D66 Group, but I still have a few questions about achieving this objective and I still need some practicalisation here and there. The law forbids grace. That's a good starting point. However, with regard to D66, a total ban would not be desirable because it would impede the application of new products and increase their knowledge. A number of exceptions have therefore been made. In short, exceptions are made for participation fees, services, small gifts and purchase discounts. The reimbursement of participation costs seems clear: only strictly necessary to participate in a meeting or event. The other wordings seem to leave more room for interpretation. Service is permitted "provided it is reasonable in relation to the money provided or offered." Several political groups have already informed us of this in the note on the basis of the report. It refers to further elaboration in the policy rules. However, I think it would be desirable to have some more information on this, because the demarcation is relevant, also for enforcement purposes. I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. What are we supposed to think about? For example, small gifts should only have a low value and no performance of the person involved in the use of the medical devices. With a little gift I think of a pen or a notebook. Then you'd think, "What the hell?" However, the Institute for Responsible Medicine (IVM) states that this is already a symbol of influence. Even a small gift can already have effect, although the recipients are often unaware of it. So I ask the Secretary of State, what could be the purpose or use of a small gift? Isn't it always a way of getting someone into a favor? Why is there no clear upper limit on "small value"? The news recently showed that brand loyalty among specialists makes suppliers feel no need to lower prices. Intrakoop investigated the market for knee and hip implants and concluded that hospitals could save millions if specialists changed products more often. Patients should not suffer from this. Of course, that's the lead. Apparently, certain providers are much clearer in sight than others. How does the Secretary of State view this? Can this legislation help ensure that providers have equal opportunities? The research of Gupta Strategists entitled Winning in the Dutch healthcare sector shows that manufacturers of medical devices make large profits. Often these are internationally oriented companies, for which the Netherlands is only a small market. Suppliers have a strong position with that. Can this bill also contribute to a stronger position for healthcare organisations? I have a few more questions about the Transparency Register. Can the Secretary of State explain when something should or should not be entered in the register? I have an example. A doctor is invited to dinner with a company that makes tools. Dinner will discuss the operation and the benefits compared to existing tools. The costs for dinner are of course borne by the supplier. But because the doctor has also invested two hours of his valuable time, he also receives a fee of €400. Is this a favor now? Should this be reported in the Transparency Register? Is it true that participation in the register is not mandatory, but it follows from the Code of Conduct for Medical Devices? Why is self-regulation chosen not to be legally anchored in this respect, which is done in favour? What does that mean for the role of the IGZ? How is the inspection supposed to be checked? Is she actively looking and is she able to do so? I heard Mrs Ellemeet ask about that too. Or does the inspection only take action if there are signs of undue influence? I would like an explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u8	We have come here at the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 4:35 p.m. and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u9	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. The bill with that long name is very much in the interest of the continuous improvement and optimisation of care in the Netherlands. On the one hand, you want a system in which you can share new technology and constantly innovate and replace existing medical devices with new ones. As a result, medical care in the Netherlands is also one of the most modern in the world. On the other hand, you want to prevent the intensive contacts between healthcare professionals and the business community from getting out of control. This balance is sought in the legislative proposal: to allow for contacts that are simply necessary for innovation, innovation, knowledge exchange and training, but not for undue influence. The point is that the patient always gets the right product based on his or her health interests and not on the financial interests of a healthcare professional or a manufacturer. That's why we want to regulate favors, including medical devices. This complements the existing regulation in the field of medicines, as the Members of Parliament have already said. In the legal framework, four situations to which this prohibition does not apply have been identified. They all relate to the contacts that you logically need to do research, to gain knowledge of the product and to ensure that innovation can actually take place. The Health Inspectorate will be given the opportunity to intervene whenever necessary in the legal anchoring of the favour in the medical equipment sector. The Minister, in cooperation with the Health Inspectorate, will draw up policy rules. They will provide for the elaboration of the law and provide guidance for enforcement by the IGZ. At this stage, I want to give the IGZ some room to develop these policy rules. It's not a static whole. Those policies will also be published by the IGZ in due course, so that everyone can learn about them. But I imagine that over the years they will also be tightened where necessary. This bill and the visibility of the financial relationships between professionals and companies contribute to preventing the influence of healthcare professionals. Making financial relationships public is also going to help. The transparency register is not a public register, but a form of self-regulation, which, as far as I am concerned, is now working well. It is very important that we have an arrangement in which we say: make clear what these financial relationships are. But it is also important that the whole sector is constantly aware of the need for transparency and that there is a responsibility in it. I shall perhaps come back to Mrs Dijkstra's example later. She gave a very clever example, just below those boundaries. Of that you can indeed say: you cannot arrange everything, because also small things can lead to a favor that affects you. That is why it is so important that professionals themselves are constantly aware of their responsibility and exercise transparency where they feel they need it. The transparency register should therefore be supported by the public authorities. This support is designed in this legislative proposal by creating a legal basis for the use of the BIG number in the register. A number of Members have already mentioned this. On the basis of this self-regulation, financial relations in the medical equipment sector have been included in the transparency register since this year. That's a kind of growth model unlike what we already have, with two areas in the pilot phase. However, enlargement is foreseen as from next year. A number of questions have been asked about this transparency register. I think it's very important to know the financial ties. This will stimulate awareness, but will also prevent undue influence in advance. The very fact that you need to be transparent means that awareness is also raised there and that patients, caregivers and healthcare providers can talk about it and ask others about it. They can then ask to explain why it is so; isn't that wrong? As a result, this conversation between healthcare professionals and companies continues, which serves self-regulation. Legitimate contacts between companies and professionals can continue, always aiming to optimise the care that best suits the patient. I recall that the transparency register for care is unique in the world. The Netherlands is at the forefront of transparency agreements in Europe. Sharing knowledge about new technologies and medical devices must be very transparent. That may be legitimate, but it is good that it is transparent, because it is best for the patient. A compliment for the sector is in order; he is at the forefront of this difficult relationship. There must be contacts, but at the same time companies must be transparent. Contacts must not lead to undue advantage. This is a beautiful, balanced, perhaps truly Dutch legislation, which maintains responsibility for the sector, but in which the government indicates what limits we should all keep in mind. I come to a few questions that have been asked. Mrs Marijnissen asked whether this exception is necessary in the light of the favour; not everything is forbidden. Exactly that's the balance. There are training sessions in which doctors are given information on how to apply a new aid to the patient and what the aid means. Information on a new medicine and its side effects can also be provided. In other words, we recognise that there are contacts, that not everything is forbidden, but that supervision is needed in order to see if that contact is not improper. It must be prevented from occurring at such amounts that it is disproportionate to the effort made. That way we tried to find a certain balance. The same applies to the question of the legal obligation for certain data on the transparency register. I think it is very important that we create that legal basis now and that the transparency register is in line with the code of conduct endorsed by the relevant parties. I am very keen that the sector should promote self-awareness in this area by means of self-regulation. The Code of Conduct for Medical Devices Foundation is responsible for handling complaints from parties under the Code of Conduct. It also gives opinions on the interpretation of the Code of Conduct. For infringements of the provisions of the Code of Conduct on Disclosure of Financial Relations, the Code Committee may impose sanctions. At present, therefore, we have no reason to believe that it is necessary to make participation in the register compulsory. I would, however, like to keep a close eye on the acceptance and compliance with the code of conduct in the near future in order to see whether it will continue to be so. I expect there will be growth and not a decline, but we will be monitoring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u11	Again, we welcome the step we can take today. It is a step in the right direction. I have listened carefully to the Secretary of State and I think I can follow him a long way. But isn't it one or the other? We would prefer to see a complete ban on grace. However, the Secretary of State says that these exceptions are sometimes necessary and that this must be possible. If so, shouldn't the transparency register be mandatory or vice versa? Surely you cannot say that exceptions are possible, but that participation in the Transparency Register is non-binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u12	There's a difference between them. To assess whether there is a favour, do you look at questions like "the favor that is being granted is it in crochet?" and "Does there not be any wrong-doing?"'. Of course, you can participate in a training or information meeting on a particular product, but if it is a favour, you can assess whether that is good and you can put the inspection on it. The Transparency Register is more generally concerned with financial relations between the sector and professionals. This register is not only about favors; it is also about relations with patient organisations. Then it is good to know the financial relationships in general, so that on the one hand you can see per healthcare provider whether unauthorized amounts are provided and on the other hand you can see the financial relationships between industry and healthcare providers, care providers in general. These two things together, I believe, strike a good balance between the responsibility of the sector and the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u13	I understand that, but I do wonder whether the argument for not making the register compulsory can be maintained. If the register is mandatory, it is just as clear to everyone. I understand from the Secretary of State's reasoning that these exceptions are obviously necessary. Is it not wise to simply make participation in that register compulsory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u14	This could, of course, be the case, if we do not have the tradition of applying this to medicines and now to medical devices, which take responsibility for the sector itself, and work is being done in the sector itself to strengthen awareness. I think that you should reward that support and the efforts of the sector itself by saying: we are going to honour that by giving it a position as well. If you make an obligation, the government will take over. Instead, you could also follow the initiative taken by the sector itself and which I believe is working well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u15	I would like to endorse the last words of the Secretary of State. It is very good that this initiative has been taken and that we are taking the lead worldwide. At the same time, we should not be naive about this sector. In addition to all industries and companies that establish good faith relationships with healthcare professionals, we know that there are huge profits in this industry. We also know that sometimes that does not work the way we want it to. As Mrs Marijnissen just said, this transparency register is there to gain transparency, but certainly also to gain insight into those cases where we have doubts about the relationship between industry and professionals. Is there not a certain naivety in the Secretary of State's desire to leave this entirely to the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u16	Well, completely leave it to the sector... The sector has a code, which states that it is mandatory to report items in the transparency register that should be reported in it. The sector itself has not made it non-binding. It's also a bit of a growth model. The code therefore states that there is an obligation to report cases to be reported in the Transparency Register. That's a nice system in itself. You can legally require it, but then you have to define when and when to report it. We come to Mrs Dijkstra's interesting questions, namely whether you can write them down. Now there is an approach based on self-regulation. There is a code of conduct which states that if something is going on, it must be reported. It can be checked regularly whether that works or not. Suppose it doesn't work and we come to the conclusion in the long run that it doesn't work properly, then we can always tighten it up. I would now like to pay tribute to the positive approach of the sector, including the code of conduct that has been drawn up, which requires compulsory notification where it is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yes, it is a nice initiative, but the reason why this law has been made is that there are problems between industry and professionals. There are abuses and improper influences on professionals. We don't want that and we need to be fixed. Isn't the transparency register the most important instrument, precisely by making it compulsory, in order to be able to deal with it better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u18	I am opposed to the idea that there are abuses and that this must therefore be done. A mature sector may be asked to be very responsible for itself, to take care of what is doing right and what is not doing right and not to catch up in case of doubt. Financial relations are reflected in the Transparency Register. It is in the field of scientific research; I would like to draw your attention to the very fine example that Mrs Ellemeet herself set out. It is very good that when a researcher comes to new discoveries and writes articles about them, the financial relationships are reported, for example, with the pharmaceutical industry that has participated in and helped in the research in question. It is very good that this is transparent and visible, but this is not an error. In favor, it's another matter. That means that you say: we are okay with financial relationships, for example because there are fees for certain activities. Let us then make sure that they do not get out of hand and that together we create a legal title for the supervisor to check whether that is going well or not. Those are two elements. The reason is not that things are going wrong, but rather that we want transparency in general and we want to create a legal basis for the supervision of favour. Those are the two elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u19	I understand what the Secretary of State says. He says that it is a growth model and that everyone has to get used to it, that it comes from the code of conduct and that we therefore do not want to regulate it legally. He says we'll keep an eye out for things to go well. I have a very practical question: how will the Secretary of State monitor this and how long will he give it time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u20	I don't think you can cut that time with scissors, but we're giving the IGZ the legal basis to oversee the favor. We will see whether that works and whether the policy rules that will come about need to be adapted over time. We can, of course, continue to monitor whether the transparency register is being used more and more. I also see articles that show that there are more financial relationships now than there were in the Transparency Register a few years ago and that conclude that this is not going well. The opposite is the case: more relationships are reported to ensure that they are entered in the Transparency Register. If that development continues, I'd be fine with it. Suppose we all find that it bleeds to death or that less is reported, then we have another debate. I honestly do not know how much time we have to take, given this growth model, but over a period of two or three years we will be able to see whether this will continue to work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u21	That seems to me to be a reasonable period of time. I think the Secretary of State will go into the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u23	That's a tricky point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u24	I have a question for my colleague, Mr Ellemeet, who states...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, no, no. You must address the Secretary of State and not each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u26	Then I turn to the Secretary of State, Mr President. The VVD finds it bizarre to hear from Mrs Ellemeet that there are very serious abuses in the sector while the documentation does not immediately show that there are any major abuses at all. We want to give the IGZ the tools to maintain in case of problems or excesses. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that Mrs Ellemeet does come with words, but doesn't have such quick examples? Maybe she can come up with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u27	Oh, Mr. Chairman, I think I'm gonna have to watch my mouth. I agree with Mr El Yassini that this bill did not come about because a lot of things are going wrong, but precisely because of the forerunner position that the Netherlands has with regard to transparency on the one hand and the developments surrounding the favour. We want to keep that lead position, therefore this bill; not because it goes wrong, but because we want to take the next step. Steps in the right direction, as Mrs Marijnissen called it. I do not think that Mrs Ellemeet wanted to say that everything is going very badly, but that she wanted to express her concerns: we need to keep an eye on whether things are going well. I think I can get away with this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u28	Just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mrs. Marijnissen asked if it would help if you bought centrally. We have different types of procurement: purchase by health insurance companies and purchase by healthcare buyers at institutions. I see the discussion is ongoing. Then you have a firm position as a buyer. I think that will work, but that also has the risk that the influence possibilities may increase if you buy everything centrally. So I would not like to say 'everything is central is better'. From cost considerations and as a countervailing partner of a manufacturer it can help to do things with each other, that's right. That does not mean that this should be the case in all cases. I think I have talked enough about the transparency register. Mr El Yassini asked whether the care buyers of hospitals, for example, are also covered by this law. Yes, the bill focuses on individual healthcare professionals, institutions and health insurance companies. Institutions also include persons employed by the institution, including purchasers. So I can confirm that. He also asked whether sponsoring of scientific research was allowed after the legislative proposal entered into force. Is it an obstacle to innovation? Sponsorship of scientific research, for example, remains possible, even in the new legislative proposal, insofar as it does not have a sales promotional purpose. This therefore does not fall within the definition of "bounty" and is therefore not prohibited. Integer, independent research remains possible with this bill. I therefore believe that innovations are not hampered by this legislative proposal. Mrs Agema asked for some definitions. We give IGZ the power to enforce. The IGZ also monitors risk-driven supervision. Mrs Dijkstra also asked: how exactly is this going? This means that oneself proactively investigates situations between providers and recipients on the basis of the information collected by the inspection itself. In addition, you can respond to signals. The strategy of the inspection is based on own risk analyses and on signals from third parties. The IGZ can impose a fine. You have also been able to see the amounts up to which this can go. It seems to us that this is enough to enable us to set up supervision in each of them. I would like to put it to a question from Mrs Ellemeet, who asked whether the IGZ has the capacity to do so. Now 5 fte are in charge of the patronage investigation. For now, that's enough. We don't have any signals that it's not enough. On the basis of the monitoring plan, it will be specified how this will be implemented. The IGZ takes the supervisory capacity with it every year. I think I have said enough about transparency. Mrs Ellemeet also asked about the accessibility and familiarity of the register. Both the umbrella of healthcare professionals and the industry's affiliated parties inform their members about the transparency register. They will continue to do so, including through newsletters on codes of conduct and reporting in the Transparency Register. The manager of the Transparency Register is working to improve the information, including online and on the website. Accessibility and awareness will therefore be further strengthened on two sides. Another question was whether it also applies to non-BIG registered persons. The purpose of the proposal is explicitly to catch non-BIG registered persons between quotation marks. For example, they could be nurses or care buyers at the hospitals, which we have just talked about. The IGZ therefore also supervises this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u30	Is this more difficult for the inspection because the non-BIG registered persons are not part of the transparency register?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, because the inspection does independent research, including with healthcare providers, and will then look not only at the BIG registered with the healthcare providers, but at anyone who may have contact with the industry. Mrs Ellemeet also asked if certain providers are more in sight than others. Are there equal opportunities for providers? Of course, there's a difference. For the medicines, all suppliers are in the picture and for the devices the growth path outlined here applies. In 2015 there was the pilot with the cardiologists and the orthopaedic companies and we will grow them slowly. As time progresses, we will also have a level playing field. Mrs Ellemeet also raised the question of whether transparency is desirable between research and caregivers. I've hit that point for a while. I agree with her that transparency is also desirable in research. That's being tested at the medical-ethical check-up. It also takes into account the scientific content of the research, not only the relationships, but also whether the scientific content can be influenced in one way or another by those relationships. I believe that we now have a fairly good tradition in the Netherlands, which is published in scientific research on the financial and other links between researcher and industry. They are therefore also transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u32	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that precisely the transparency register offers a very nice entrance for a lot of people who want to know how the relationship between industry and care or care is. The investigators? Wouldn't it make more sense, if you look at it from the information that you provide to people, that you make a link with the registrations that are already there, but that are not included in the transparency register, and that you put them in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u33	We should look at that in the long run, but there is a distinction. The Transparency Register exposes the financial links so that everyone can see what is going on and what relationships are going on. In an investigation, it might also be wise to know what specific relationships there are when it is published. That doesn't have to be consistent with each other. When publishing that research, it is the researcher's responsibility to publish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think Mrs Ellemeet knows that better than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yeah, but then there's a question from people who want to know. With the Transparency Register, we want to provide as much information as possible to the widest possible audience on the relationship between industry and healthcare. If you want to know about the relationship between industry and researchers, it requires much more commitment from people to find out. Then they have to look into that specific research to see if it has been co-financed by industry. In my contribution, I said that it could also be about researchers who explain a particular product at a conference. The public then wants to know if there is also a relationship when it comes to funding research. Then the Transparency Register is a very logical entry to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yeah, but in a lot of research, you'd like to know exactly what's going on with the findings and the researcher. The transparency register looks more at the structural side. I'd like to see if it could be and-and, but I'm going too far to say that you can just link this up. It might be good to include this in the further development of the Transparency Register. I now turn to Mrs Dijkstra's somewhat more difficult question. Her question was very to the point, because she mentioned amounts that are just below the border. The standard for small gifts is actually the same as for civil servants: €50. The threshold for reporting on cumulation per year is €500. I assume that is exactly why Mrs Dijkstra chose €400. I think the honest answer to her question is that you can't take care of everything. I have heard Mrs Dijkstra's example: you are invited to dinner, you do nothing else and you also get €400; that is below the border, but is there any improper influence? I'd be scratching behind the ears. I'd think, "I don't know if that's true." You do not see it in itself in the reports, but you can still think that an improper influence has taken place. This is typical of what we believe should be demonstrated by enforcement and supervision. If it turns out that all kinds of things are being done and that all kinds of shortcuts are being made up, then we need to rethink the policy rules in which these limits are set. You can't take care of everything. Mrs Dijkstra's example shows that it is also about the morality of the doctors themselves. That's the base. We can be pleased that we in the Netherlands have a professional sector that always puts patients' interests first and that there is a willingness to lay down rules, including through this law, which allow supervision to take place if it is not good. Everything naturally stands or falls with the morality, self-awareness and behavior of, in this case, the caregiver himself. It seems to me very good to continue to cherish this in the good tradition that the Netherlands has in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u38	The thrust of this question is, of course, that perhaps it can be said that these are not large amounts. Although, for a lot of people, $400 for two hours is a lot of money. What matters is that you don't want patients to end up getting aids or being treated with devices that are not the best for them or in their situation. I understand what the Secretary of State is saying and I fully agree that you can never get it completely closed, but to what extent can this legislation and the transparency register, according to the Secretary of State, help to make people aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u39	I am very positive about that. I said for a reason that the transparency register combined with the "bounty legislation," so to speak, is unique in the world. This also says something about a sector that is already willing to draw up codes of conduct on its own and to be transparent about it. We are strengthening this with this law. Furthermore, there is supervision by the IGZ. The inspection may determine, on the basis of the enforcement strategies, what it will look at, whether it will tighten up monitoring and how it will respond to signals. So we have the industry's code of conduct, the transparency register, the rules on favour and supervision by the IGZ. I think we have a system with which we can at least rely. I am not saying that we will then be able to sit back, but the measures and instruments mentioned above will enable us to keep an eye on whether things are developing as they should in our opinion. However, there is no reason to sit back. However, there is reason to review this constantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u40	There doesn't have to be any reason to bring this to the attention of anyone. The amount is just below the limit and this can still be very common. That is what my question was about. Doesn't the Secretary of State think this legislation will help?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u41	I think so, because the amount of €500 is cumulative per year. For the small gifts an amount of €50 applies. I have some experience with these kinds of rules in the state service, and they work there too. In that sense, I believe that we can trust that this will continue to work. Again, the IGZ can request contact details at any time, check the amounts and make conversations. The experience is that the Netherlands is so small that we find out everything. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u42	So much for the first term of the Secretary of State. I note that Mrs Marijnissen does not want to say anything more in the second term of the Chamber. Mr. El Yassini did. I see that there are also two amendments. Secretary of State, would you like to deal with them in your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. It can be short. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. In the previous debate with the Secretary of State, which included my maiden speech, I forgot that thank you. It's good practice to do that, so here's to it. We are very pleased with this and look forward to the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u44	I note that Mrs Agema, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dijkstra also do not need a second term. That's what the Chamber is ready for. The Secretary of State can now discuss the two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u45	Then I must have them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u46	They're arriving in a rush. We'll wait, because I'm sure the Secretary of State will want to take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen's amendment to item No. 7. We have just talked about the need, to my taste, to make a number of exceptions to the favour, because of normal contacts and innovations, and for example training about products. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I think these exceptions are necessary. In her amendment to item No. 8 asks Mrs Ellemeet for an annual evaluation of the Transparency Register for Healthcare. I should like to leave this amendment to the House. I have one comment to make. We're starting this now and it's a bit of a growth model, so if we're going to do this every year, I'm not sure if we're going to have a lot of new information in the next few years. But I support the intention of the amendment, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u48	So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-13-tweedekamer-8.u49	And so much for today's meeting. We will be voting on the law and both amendments next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence in both this debate and the previous one. I wish everyone a happy Good Friday and meaningful Easter days!
