ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate on the declaration of government. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Madam President. As far as I am concerned, there is one more question from Mr Krol. Let's see where I left it. Otherwise, it'll come later. I've got it right here, I see. That question concerned the division of the 400,000 group which does not improve purchasing power. These are, to a large extent, people over 65 with a significant supplementary pension. This has to do with the indexation of pensions. That brings me to the labour market paragraph. Some questions have been asked about that too. I want to avoid, also in view of the time span, that I must always read out the coalition agreement. I therefore confine myself to the questions. In his first week, the Minister for Social Affairs immediately started contacting employers and employees and looking at their views. We want to achieve a better balance on the labour market, including between flex and solid. The social partners are, of course, involved in this. This is necessary because we want support, but also because of the importance of good collective agreements and the contribution they can make to achieving that balanced labour market. We have good faith that we can get out of this together. We think it is a balanced package, where the labour market is more accessible but also fairer. We do not want to make Flex even more flexible, but rather less flexible. At the same time, we want a labour market that works for everyone and we also look at what we can do to remove employers' concerns to offer people a permanent contract. In addition, special attention is paid to the position of the self-employed without staff. Payrolling is also addressed, so that it is no longer an instrument to compete on working conditions. There will also be adjustments to the right of dismissal, as they are also included in the package. I think I have answered a lot of questions. A more specific question is: what do you do to make money available for earlier cessation of work? Are you or aren't you? That was Mr Asscher's question. He asked if it was true that no money would be released for early retirement. That's not right. We believe that employers and workers should invest together in sustainable employability. Especially when we age and the retirement age continues to rise, it is important that people can continue to work healthy and longer. But it is also invested in by the government, because the Income Provision Act for older unemployed is extended for a further four years, so that they are not covered by the wealth and income test. In addition, we are going to see how we can further support the labour market and how we can remove any obstacles to existing flexibility around, for example, retirement age, for example, by allowing options such as part-time retirement, or at least by broadening it, through the second pillar pension or through generational pacts. This too, in close consultation with employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	Do you have all the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	I can specifically finish the headline on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yeah, I prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	We have talked in detail about the people with disabilities, so I am not doing that again. Then there is the question of the importance of volunteers and carers. Among other things, Mr Krol has asked for this. The fact is that pensioners, especially those with low incomes, are on average improving in the coming years. We talked about that today. In particular, we also want to make agreements with the municipalities on support, for example for carers. In addition, day care is important, but also the grace care, so that people who do a lot here also get some rest. In the case of volunteers, the maximum unpaid voluntary allowance is extended. I have already mentioned this in another context. Finally, this. Yeah, it's true. In 2012 it was decided to gradually increase the AOW age to 67 years and link it to life expectancy. We think it is important that people also retire in a healthy way. There is a great responsibility on the part of the social partners, which we are also discussing with them. This also means that they need to consider re-training and further training measures. This really is a question of the need for a cultural change, in which I would like to address the employers in particular. I have the impression that this is being realised on the workers' side, but here, in particular, employers can really do more. I thought it was a little too enthusiastic to respond to ideas from the employees to freeze it again. On the contrary, I would like to call on them to take responsibility and to contribute to ensuring that people reach retirement age in a decent manner. And here too, of course, we are extending the IOW, which is the special asset and income test benefit, for four years. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions raised about the labour market by implication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	I have a question on the proposals in the field of labour law, in particular on the proposal to introduce a five-month probation period for a fixed contract, as well as a shorter probation period for temporary contracts, which were previously prohibited. The concern I have with this, and with many of me, is that you are actually going to introduce a very far-reaching flexibility, that there can be a revolving door whereby people can be dismissed at any time, without reason and without valid grounds, because there is no further need to send someone away within a probationary period. Can the Prime Minister confirm to me that there will be proposals to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	Everything is aimed at making the fixed contract accessible to more people. You have to sort things out in such a way that it's maximized and that you don't introduce things when you set them up so that people can get back out there quickly; that's what you want to avoid. We are also going to have talks about this with employers and employees. But at least that's the goal. In the end, we want a labour market that works for everyone: the zpp'er who wants to bezzp'er, another who says he wants a permanent job and a third who says he wants to work more in a flexible shell for companies or government organisations. So a labour market that works for everyone. You shouldn't be forced into a particular arrangement because that labour market isn't there for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	Clear. Could I explain that in a social agreement the agreements on this point should be read on their contribution to the actual provision of fixed contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yeah, exactly. The aim is then that employers will eventually take the people into permanent employment and not to give employers an extra hand, which I do not believe they want at all, but I am referring to those who may be making wrong use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	Finally, on this point. This means that the cabinet can also live with the discussion I had with Klaas Dijkhoff yesterday: the social agreement means that the letter of the coalition agreement may be waived. Of course, it's a base that's there for a reason, Buma said. But it means that the Minister has the room to improve the arrangements. Otherwise, it's a completely pointless story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	Of course. We have an opinion. It's in the coalition agreement. We talk to employers and employees and we don't lock ourselves in our own right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have two questions. The first question is about the senior ambassador. The previous cabinet didn't want it to be called that. Will this function of the elderly figure continue in the coming period of government, in particular in order to help older people get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	We're gonna find out, because even Wouter Koolmies doesn't know an answer to this. We're gonna find out, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's nice, in I've been looking for you all the time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u16	Sure, but we'll answer them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u17	My other question is this. Last week we heard the Prime Minister in the programme The Monitor to street makers in Venlo promising that if they voted for the VVD, 65 would remain 65. What can he tell those street makers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, that was in 2008 or 2009, when I was group chairman. Then I spoke to a group of street makers who were worried about whether they could continue working and what impact that had on their health. My party's position at the time was that you should see if people who have worked for 40 years in a heavy occupation can retire sooner. We had to let that go as a VVD. Anyway, I'm not here in front of the VVD, but in response to your questions. We now have the view, like many other parties, that it is widely held in the Chamber, that the age of AOW should be raised, that we should not make an exception for heavy professions and that we should ensure that people with a heavier appeal can reach that age in a decent manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u19	And what are we going to do for the people who can't make it? We heard the story yesterday. I know you don't go into individual cases, but there are a lot of people who are at an age that they're really convinced they're not gonna make it to 67 or 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u20	No, that is why I call on employers not to think too quickly 'o, how nice that some in the circle of employees are calling for a freeze on the AOW age increase'. No, employers must also take responsibility and say: listen, we need these people. It's also experience. The advantage of hiring someone over 50 is that he won't be working with you for 40 years. You're building a certain flow again, because that person is out after sixteen, up to seventeen years. I refer to personnel policy: retraining, retraining, involving people in more coaching-like roles, training roles, which we also see in shiftwork companies where collective agreements often provide that people from a certain age no longer have to work on shiftwork. We all think that's perfectly normal. I think that in the Netherlands, I really think that this is a joint task, in which the employers have a very important role to play in ensuring that we can experience this with all of us. We are getting older, we can work longer, but also the people with heavier professions must be able to do so in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u21	But it is clear that there are employers who can't do that, because they don't have enough staff. So there's always gonna be people going to fall between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u22	So I'd like to avoid the latter. I can't give you an individual guarantee here. What I can say is that all smaller companies are also working together in branches. We also have a need at the moment. There's a huge shortage of skilled personnel. So the employers I speak to say: apart from the fact that people remain in employment for longer, we also have an interest in ensuring that they can reach retirement age in a pleasant way and continue to live healthyly afterwards. When you have a small business, you work together. Then you are almost always in an industry or organisation in which you can make agreements with other companies, for example: "I can't offer Piet a place where he can continue his last few years without doing that very hard work. Can he get a training or coaching role at your company, which is slightly larger?" Then, of course, you have to look at what that means. That's what the whole package demands. I believe that employers have a very great responsibility in this regard. Of course they have them together with the trade unions, but I do call on employers' organizations first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u23	Didn't that whole increase go too fast? You can't get this done this way so fast, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u24	I disagree. We had to do this because we're all getting older. Bismarck put that age once, 140 years ago, at 65 years. I always thought it was crazy that we didn't incorporate the new insights into life expectancy. I also think, I repeat, that it is very good that we can continue to make good use of people with their experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u25	I think you're on the subject of "care."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u26	Indeed, I come to the subject of care. Let me start immediately with the question of district nurses, although there are other questions about care. Mr Asscher also tabled a motion on this matter yesterday. I'm just gonna get the facts straight. Mr Asscher made a large number of appointments yesterday. It is a fact that in the next few years, the cure part of the care will receive a very large amount of money. That is the part that does not fall under long-term care, but the part of hospital care and community care; that type of care. In the jargon, it's called "the cure." In the coming years, 8 billion will be added. So there comes an entire Defence budget, or one and a half times the assistance, or one and a half times the police budget. We want to try to slow down this growth by another 1.9 billion, as we have done in the past, by making agreements to reduce this growth area somewhat. That is necessary, because in the coming years you will once again stand up for the job of maintaining the quality of care while maintaining affordability, so that people can continue to pay it. We also see now that these costs are only increasing. You can also see that translated into the amount of the premium. We've seen the reports in the last few days about how that premium's going up. Fortunately, this has been incorporated in the purchasing power picture, but it is nevertheless significant amounts, also from the national budget. That's the context. There are therefore no plans for a cut, for example in the area of nursing. We said we want that 1.9 billion. Then the Central Planning Bureau makes a kind of assumption as to how this could turn out across the different sectors. Mr Roemer has noticed the same in his election programme. Actually, the same thing is happening with our plans, as the SP has seen it: about 100 million are then allocated to the district care. That is not a cut in the budget, but if you are going to slow down that cost, it will affect 100 million people in the sector, which, incidentally, will continue to receive very substantial money over the next few years. In 2018, around 3.7 billion is available for community care and that is a quarter billion more, 250 million more than in 2017. That's about the context. I understand Louis Asscher saying, also on behalf of the other parties, that if we are going to talk to the sector, we must ensure that we do not let this happen at the expense of implementation in three respects. These points are quality, accessibility and workload. So how do you ensure that the quality, accessibility and workload are not affected? What I would like to try today, perhaps, is to succeed now or in the second term, but it is an advantage that the motion is already there now, to see if I can reach a broad agreement here in the Chamber that, when implementing the main agreement, we should ensure that we maintain the current standards in the nursing sector when it comes to accessibility, quality and working pressure, which should not increase. If we could have some sort of landing land there, I would like to prevent us from getting into that word game about whether or not we're cutting back and excluding sectors, which is complicated when you start talking right away. That also leaves a little room for rulers to enter into these talks with all the care. Otherwise, of course, the following will come up with: it is excluded, so now I too must be excluded. That doesn't work either. Can we look at the content of these three criteria to see if I have understood Mr Asscher correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u27	I think it's good that we agree on the context. In addition, I can go along with a great deal of what the Prime Minister is describing here. There is an increasing demand for care, because more beautiful, better treatments are being discovered, because we are getting older and because we can often treat nasty diseases, which means we keep quality of life longer. That is a good thing, but it does lead to huge costs for society, so you have to do something about that. I support that, too. I too had in the election programme of the Labour Party that a broad agreement should be reached. The Prime Minister says: it is not our intention to cut down on community nursing. Well, then the solution is already very close. But the Central Planning Bureau will translate it that way. There's a reason we didn't have the neighborhood care excepted in our election program at the pass-through. There is certainly a substantive reason for this. Most older people live at home longer and longer, which is also wanted by those older people themselves and by all of us. There is a legitimate investment in the quality of nursing home care, when older people do have to go to a nursing home. In the meantime, however, the workload for men and women working as neighbourhood nurses is high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u28	And now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u29	Sure. Mr President, normally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u30	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u31	Can I make a plea to get a little bit of space once in a while? This is the difficult part of the debate. At least, it could be fun. It's important that we both have a little time for that. That's my suggestion, politely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u32	I'd say take over!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u33	Well, that would be inappropriate under state law, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u34	If the Prime Minister wanted to save time by saying "judge Chamber; I am convinced," he could do so at any time. Then I'll give you room for that again if that's what it takes. Why is the motion necessary? In my view, it is important to make it clear that you realize that there is actually already a lot of work being done by the district nurses. I don't recognize the image that these men and women work there inefficiently. There may be inefficiency at the top of these organisations; I would like to say that. Yesterday, in the debate on order with Klaas Dijkhoff, I said that it would be fine if we could get something there. But the motion calls for the local nurses to be excluded. This means that you exclude the very people who do the work, on whom a lot of patients depend, from austerity. Now there are two possibilities. Or it's a cut. I think this is true in practice, because there is more money, but there is more work. This means that you actually have to do your job with less money per patient. Or it's not a cutback, but that's where we end up in a game of words. In both cases, I hear the Prime Minister say that it is not the intention to cut down on district nurses. In both cases, the operative part of the motion is, in my view, in accordance with both our intentions and, moreover, with the direction of the govern ment. The Prime Minister merely uses an argument that the ruler should have room to conclude agreements. I agree with that. That space is also provided in the recitals in the motion itself. Only, it's also important that there be certainty now. That is a very serious point. I didn't file the motion yesterday for nothing, because there is this unrest. There must now be certainty for the people who do this work. They are indeed very concerned. If you're right, that's wrong, but I'm afraid it's justified because of what the Central Planning Office is linking to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u35	The point here is, and that makes it complicated, that last year in the neighborhood nursing care there was 200 million left. This will remain in 2016 or 2017. In any case, there has been a year when too little has been spent, less than there was in the jars. Oh, I hear that's been the case for years, since 2015. That is not an argument to say that it is easy. But in the coming years there will be a lot of extra growth space, a lot of additional people need to be recruited and there will also be innovation, which will not be at the expense of quality, workload or accessibility. My image is as follows. I think we're all in agreement on what we want. The question is, how do you say it? If you're talking about the operative part of the contract, I'm gonna have to cut the departmental nurses off from austerity, then you've put that group completely aside and you've used the term "sustaining." If you were to say in the operative part "call on the government to ensure that access and quality is preserved and that the workload does not increase," then we would leave room to do, for example, what Mr Roemer suggested yesterday about how he would have wanted to implement the SP programme, namely by looking for efficiency above the level of the district nurse, and let us also have room to see what is possible of innovation at the level of implementation by the district nurse. I'm asking for that space. So my question is: can we change the operative part in this way? Then I can say right away: agree. Perhaps that will not work for Mr Asscher or for me now, but we can also discuss it further in the second term. But I am looking for an outcome in which the operative part is adjusted, where it is quite specifically said that the anchors are quality, accessibility and working pressure. I think we agree on that. Let that reflect in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u36	I understand what the Prime Minister's looking for. He says very clearly that it is not the intention to cut down on the district nurses. At the same time, however, he says: what if innovation left money, it would be a shame if you were not allowed to make agreements about it? I have no objection to that at all. It's about choosing to make it clear that that's what the operative part means that you're not at the expense of the workload...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u37	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u38	... not at the expense of the amount of man and woman hours and not at the expense of the quality of care offered, attempts to reach a broad agreement. For this reason, the recital also states that the quality of care and the reduction of workload must be paramount in the conclusion of new basic agreements. I think you can read the operative part there, too. It's not meant to deny the Secretary of State space. If there are opportunities for innovation and efficiency, that is always good. Then there will be more money for the care itself. That is what we want to achieve. However, it must be made clear in substance that there seems to be no objection that there is no saving on the district nurses themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u39	Then it would be my preference to adjust the operative part. This debate has a huge history. That makes sense, because this is a subject that you and others have dealt with in detail, which I understand very well. In my opinion, we are now approaching each other far and wide on what we want: those three anchors of accessibility, quality and working pressure. It would be my great preference to put that in the operative part and thus replace the present operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u40	I am going to say something about this, Mr Asscher. There's gonna be more than one motion. I know it's important, but we can't talk endlessly about one motion. I also see the names of more colleagues, nine group chairmen under the motion. I find it a little complicated to get all nine group chairmen to say something about it. I would therefore like to appeal to you to conclude the debate on this motion now and then perhaps come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u41	The only change that is being asked is to take out the passage "out of cuts." That would, I think, be a mistake, because that would leave open the possibility that there will be savings on that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u42	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u43	That is precisely the uncertainty that has arisen. That's not what I'm here for. I am prepared to explain to the Prime Minister how the motion can be read, but we will have to discuss it in the second term. If passages can be changed or improved, I would like to discuss them with the proposers, with the cabinet and with other parties. There's no objection to that. But the meaning must be clear. After today, there is the certainty for district nurses: you are not being cut back; of course, the inefficiency at headquarters is being addressed and of course we are ensuring that more money gets into care, but not at your expense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u44	I understand what Mr Asscher is saying. My point is that we are explicitly saying that we are excluding a sector from the main agreement. I find that complicated. I also think it would be better if it were explicitly stated which three anchors we would like to place in it, also because this motion will often come back in the coming period. I remember discussions with Mr Pechtold in another role on education. It closely listens to what we finally have in a text that we agree on. This cabinet has no intention of cutting down on community nursing. This cabinet wants to slow down growth throughout the course, and does not want to say in advance that no attention is being paid to community care. But if we do that, it must not be at the expense of these three elements. For example, it may be in efficiency, in the organisation, in new technology or in a modern way of personnel policy or whatever you can think of. Well, I've made a suggestion for how I'd like the operative part to be adjusted. Maybe it's best for the moment, Mr. Chairman. If we all think about that again, we will have a second term in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u45	Fine. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u46	My question is not about the motion but about the general principles that are being formulated. The Prime Minister says there are three anchors. It must not be at the expense of employment and workload. I hope that doesn't just apply to community nursing. The motion was very clear. It's not about cutting back specifically on this item. But if we are to mention just what we are going to make agreements in the ggz, then these principles apply, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yeah, I haven't really thought about that right now. I suppose so; that's my feeling. But I will come back to that in the second term. I would like to be careful not to fall into a big pie, but I think Mr Klaver is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'm glad the Prime Minister will return to it in the second term. Now we are talking about the motion, because it calls very explicitly on the authors not to cut back, so to say: we are not going to make a profit in the neighbourhood care sector. If then the great gesture of the cabinet is that there are three general principles which actually apply to all sectors, then I do not know where the outstretched hand of this cabinet sits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u49	I regret that, because then you get: we want an outstretched hand and we have now written a motion and you have to say yes to it. I really appreciate that motion. I am actually very happy that it is now there, because that allows us to talk about it now. But if I can choose between saying yes or saying yes, I don't think that's real. I actually liked my debate with Mr Asscher much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u50	I don't see it as my...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u51	Well, I shall now give the floor to Mr Asscher!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr President, it is neither your job nor my job to please the Prime Minister in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u53	That's what I'm starting to find out!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u54	We need to question him as closely as possible to see if he's not doing what he's been trying to do here for years, which is to send the Chamber with a rug. Of course he doesn't just have to say yes. It will be given and taken, but I believe that the three principles or anchors that are formulated here apply to all agreements. So I wonder what the special thing about these three elements is when you only look at community nursing. I just want that to be very sharp. I know this Prime Minister as an astute person, so I assume he also appreciates that I am just looking for the sharpness to see what is being offered here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u55	I just answered that. I understand that question about generalization, but I'm gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u56	In the coalition agreement, a lot of extra money is allocated to nursing care. Now there is an understandable wish from the PvdA Group and other signatories to look also at community care. There are also other forms of care for the elderly, other forms of housing that are not so much nursing home care but are outdoors. We want older people to live at home as long as possible. I have a general question. Could, for example, a look at the budgetary treatment of VWS be given a look at the coherence? Is there a balance in caring for the elderly in all these areas? I want to know whether it does not overtake one element of that concern, while we want older people who want to stay at home for longer. Maybe it would be good to give that peek. I hope that the VWS Minister will be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u57	It seems to me, but maybe I can give it a try already. Of course we invest heavily in nursing care on the one hand, but we certainly should not forget that there are also many people living at home and need care at home. We are, of course, looking for a good balance between these different elements. We are now primarily dealing with the issue of additional investment in nursing care, but we need to maintain a good balance. On this point, I would like to say that we are doing so, among other things, by strengthening support for the care of the family, the care of the child, the fight against loneliness and the taking up of the Manifest Ageing. These are all instruments to ensure that the balance does not go to one side. We are going to work on these four matters: support for the care of the family, care for the rest, the fight against loneliness and the Manifestly Ageing Vigorous. That's supposed to take care of that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u58	One more element: there are also new forms of housing. We all know the initiative of Jan Slagter in Rotterdam. I think the US Secretary of State is undoubtedly aware of that. That's not nursing care, but somewhere in that domain, it has a place. I would like it if all those elements could be weighed in conjunction. I would like to have a look through: how do we ensure that people in the best place can age in a very good way and that there is balance between these different domains?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u59	Can I suggest that we leave room for the Minister to do so either in a letter or in the first-term response of the VWS budget? That is a good time to say, as a new minister, that this is my view and vision on this subject. I'll leave it to the Minister if he does it in a letter or that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u60	I would also like to comment on quality, accessibility and workload. The Prime Minister was right to say that we all agree that nothing can be handed over, because the sector is already under pressure. He also believes that we should give room for red tape and innovation. If there's money to be raised, of course that's fine. My question is how this can be made concrete in the near future. How is it possible for the Chamber to check that this is not at the expense of accessibility, quality and workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u61	The honest answer to that is that I cannot give a firm total guarantee on that right now. However, I can make the effort to make that clear. We have done so in the past in the previous main agreements. There has always been an attempt to outline as best as possible what the impact would be on the execution. If we agree today specifically for the nurse that these three anchors are leading, then it also obliges us, if a deal is made and agreements are made, to show why these agreements do not lead to a deterioration of one of those three anchors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u62	I think it would be important for this to be made clear, because then we can get above the level of political horse-trading and really see if it actually works out that way in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u63	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u64	In my view, this is also the function of the ruling of the Chamber: give the Minister the opportunity to conclude agreements on the basis of an instruction on what you should achieve. The intention of the cabinet is not to cut down on nurses, as has just been said. That's in the operative part of the motion. I would like to talk about all the considerations and anchors around them. In my view, then, we are actually ready to send the Minister on his way with a clear instruction from the Chamber which corresponds to what Kees van der Staaij just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u65	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u66	Yes, Mr President, just a moment, because it listens very accurately and very closely. I think it is a good thing that we both reflect on the other suggestions on the operative part, and that we should also consider the second term. But whatever exactly comes out, I think we agree on what we want to achieve. Then there is the question of the many people who are needed in the coming time. It's really very large numbers. We don't have a Columbus egg for that either. This will involve the whole of society and certainly the whole healthcare sector. There is the Labour Market Agenda 2023. There is also money available for training and improvement of the whole image of care and care for the elderly. I think we can see that taking care of others is one of the most beautiful professions in the world: teacher, nurse, policeman and in this case care worker. It takes a lot of people. I'm not gonna try to fix that whole thing here, but there are a few things you can look at. You'll have to work on educating, educating and educating the staff. Then you can try to get people to grow into some heavier functions. The second is limiting the outflow. How can you keep employees? Think also of extending part-time contracts and finding smart ways of working and using labour-saving technology. I was just talking about this in the context of community nursing. There is a tremendous amount of work to be done on all sides. It will also be very important with how much love to use that word; yesterday the Forum for Democracy used that term, but now I do so for care and respect we talk about care. If there are problems, we must, of course, name them, but we must realise that there are people who may be looking to consider whether or not to work in this sector. Everything we do is part of the question of whether people are going to make that choice with great pleasure in the end. Let us always realize that, without saying that we should not have the debate about it if there are abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u67	Have all the questions about care been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u68	No, if you'll allow me, I'll take care of the part briefly. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm about to go into other, more medical-ethical questions. The questions about cure and care, so hospital care and care for the elderly, I have now answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u69	I do not hear one option in the options that Mr Rutte has mentioned here for resolving the deficits in healthcare. I would like to ask whether it belongs in the list, namely market forces in healthcare. In municipal procurement, contracts are often short-term rather than long-term. I hear that this means that healthcare providers have to give more and more temporary contracts to their employees. That's a lot of uncertainty. This uncertainty is one of the reasons why people choose care less easily. Providing long-term contracts by municipalities to healthcare providers could be an important way of making the profession more attractive. Is that one of the options that can be credited to the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u70	We will really have to do a deeper analysis of how labour market distorting it works. I think there is still a debate on this. I do not want to try to restrict the policy freedom of municipalities by means of a detour. That is not what this debate is for. I understand what Mr Klaver wants and respect that, but I think that we should first look more closely at the reasons behind it and whether there is a real disturbance in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u71	I did not really want to interrupt on this point, because it fits very well with the healthcare budget. I'm doing it anyway, because the Prime Minister himself is insisting on it and he's listing a number of options. It is very striking that this option is not included. This is not about reducing the possibilities of municipalities. This is about increasing the possibilities, namely that they do not have to end up in a procurement circus every time and that they can make agreements with healthcare institutions for the longer term. The Prime Minister can then say: we need to do some more research on that. But this is a wish that lives with municipalities and healthcare providers. And more importantly, I hear this from a lot of people who have worked in healthcare. They say: we had uncertainty every time because of temporary contracts. I only have one question for the Prime Minister: just add this option to this list, because then she will be on it and we can talk about whether it fits in with each other. In that sense, this option is as certain or uncertain as any other option the Prime Minister calls it, but I want her there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u72	The list was not exhaustive, but as Mr Klaver puts it, we have to formulate the matter very sharply here. I don't want to do that. If I can understand him in such a way that he wants to look more generally at the system of municipal procurement in relation to the labour market in health care, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u73	It's all a bit economical and lean, but I'll take this as a matter of fact if there is room to look at the way in which procurement is carried out, and if this is also better regulated for the longer term for municipalities and especially for the people who work in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u74	I was afraid of this, because then we disagree. I don't want to promise that here. It may well be that at some point directors will come forward with proposals on this subject which Mr Klaver likes, but it is not the case that there are plans for this at the moment. I understood him just so that he said: this could be a problem in the labour market. Then you have to weigh it in that light, and I can promise you that. I do not want to go so far as to say that I will go along with a restriction on municipal policy freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u75	Everyone in the Netherlands is of course happy with extra money for the care of the elderly, but it does make me a bit of my eyebrows frown when I hear the Prime Minister talk about love for care or love for the elderly. It was his Rutte II cabinet that made tens of thousands of people redundant in the care sector in recent years. By closing the nursing homes alone, 37 000 people were involved. After that, tens of thousands of people were laid off because of the cuts in home care, and they lost their jobs. If you hadn't, you would now have a much less serious problem getting those heroes of care back to work. It's nice that money comes in, but don't talk about love. You cut away first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u76	The cabinet has had to take measures in many areas to get the economy back on its feet. It has also carried out a very large transition in the care where there is a broad sense of social desire that people live longer at home and are well supervised and that people only depend on nursing care in much more complex situations. This reduces the importance of nursing home care. That's a choice. That is a big change that is going on, but it has good reasons, namely that people want to stay in their own environment for longer. Mr. Chairman. I've come to a few medical-ethical topics. Oh, I'm not getting to a few medical-ethical topics yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u77	I can't stand it if the truth isn't spoken, because this hasn't been the mechanism. You did something in your previous cabinet that was completely illogical. You closed the nursing homes with the idea that people could stay home longer. If people stay home longer, you'd rather say that extra money should go to home care, but you've also cut back on home care. You cut off the places in the nursing homes where people could be protected before they could possibly go to a nursing home, and you fired 37,000 people into care. And instead of giving more money for people at home, you have also cut back on it, which has also led to tens of thousands of redundancies. So don't talk about love. You've ruined the care of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u78	However, very precisely: there is a broad sense of social desire, along the lines we are now working on, that people can stay at home longer. In addition, we are, of course, faced with very difficult measures that had to be taken to control costs throughout the public budget. I would point out that health care is now by far the largest budget item we have. For very good reasons, there is no doubt about that. That is why we do, but we also need to realise that as a politician, you have to ensure that these total costs remain in balance with the other expenditures. Otherwise, care is the cuckoo cub that pushes Defense, police and education out of the nest. So it's the government's job to always look for that balance. That's difficult, but it's called driving, it's called taking responsibility, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u79	That's the kind of answer I can't sit around with. Of course, Mr Wilders was absolutely right about this. People were forced to live at home. One part wanted it and another part was forced. In fact, older people in nursing homes were forced to move because the nursing home had to be closed down. This is what happened to the elders. If you then state the wish or obligation that people have to live longer at home, this would imply that you will then invest extra in home care. No, it didn't. People have taken their pay for a large part and a lot of people in home care have lost their jobs. So from both sides, these people are just double-crossed. Tell the honest story, though. Moreover, there are still a lot of people who choose to live in a nursing home anyway. It's only gonna cost $300 million to get these nursing homes open again, calculated and all. So the dividend money can also open up our nursing homes to those people who would like to. 'Cause look what happens to all those people who stay at home for a long time to fall, to hospital costs. We're often much more expensive than ever. So tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u80	I gave my response to Mr Wilders. What Mr Roemer is neglecting here is a broad living and widely felt social desire to make a transition. In the seventies, when we were 65, we went to the retirement home. This also had to do with the shortage in the housing market. In the eighties and nineties we went to a nursing home with more serious complaints. Now a new choice has been made. Over the past ten years, there has been a new transition in healthcare where we have said that when it comes to people with not too heavy complaints who in most cases want to stay at home, we want to facilitate that as best as possible, so that we can also focus the money as much as possible on nursing care for those who rely on heavier support. This is a process of change that has taken place in health care over the past 30, 40 years. With seven-mile boots racing through it, what Mr Roemer is doing now, I find a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u81	No, that's not easy. I know the Prime Minister doesn't like to hear this. The fact is that a number of people want to stay at home for longer, but there is a huge amount of money in it. People were forced to live longer at home. That's really different. People were obliged to move from nursing homes because they had to be closed down. Those people didn't want that. How many times have we been told: Mr Roemer, you should not plant old trees. That's what happened. If you want to make a transition to living longer at home, you should have invested in more home care and more community care. Neither one of them is done. So there has just been a vulgar austerity with a nice story about a kind of transition, and the elderly have become the loser. The 77.000 people in care who lost their jobs are also screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr President, I repeat once more. The costs in our health care in the past cabinet period and also in the upcoming cabinet period... I said it already: the entire Defence budget is added to that part of the concern that in plain Dutch is called hospital care with everything around it, i.e. the general practitioner and the district nurses. That's $8 billion. That's the whole defense budget. These are the huge cost increases we are facing. If Mr Roemer were in this place, he too would have no choice but to wonder how he can maintain the quality of care while at the same time reducing the rise in costs. Why is that necessary? To maintain the level of Europe's best care, perhaps in the whole world, that we are delivering at the moment, while at the same time ensuring that it remains affordable for everyone in this country. This also leaves money available in the budget for matters such as education, defence, police, benefits and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u83	I very much agree, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u85	I agree; so do we. However, we do not do it at the expense of home care to allow people to live longer at home, by mass lay-offs and cutting back on them. What we do do is deal with the top salaries in healthcare. One in five caregivers deserves more than a minister. Why don't you take that, get the millions out of there? We've been talking about bureaucracy in healthcare for years. It's still not getting any less. Take on that whole market operation with all those health insurance companies. Stop it and we'll save billions. Yes, I'd be happy to join in to see how we can reduce the cost of care, but then we'll tackle the waste, then we'll deal with the pharmaceutical industry and then we'll deal with market forces. We do not do it to the people in home care and certainly not by letting them give up 20% on their salary. We don't do it to the elderly who have to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u86	I know what Roemer's saying. Mr Roemer says where you could look, but then you talk about small amounts. This is not about the billions needed to slow down the rise in costs. That's really what's going on. If you don't, you're gonna take responsibility for the fact that healthcare spending is gonna keep spiking up. This is ultimately at the expense of other things in this society. I think it is the task of politics to make choices in scarcity and to constantly wonder how we can manage the rise in costs in a responsible way, without compromising important considerations such as we have just discussed with district nurse care. At the same time, we must ensure that quality is maintained. That is the task we have as politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u88	And I understand that Mr Roemer might make other choices in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u89	Finally, Mr President. It is very hard to hear that the Prime Minister is defending that he prefers to take it away from home care. He has the home carers turn 20% in on their salaries and says nothing about the top salaries. One in five deserves more than a minister. Nor does he say anything about e.g. those who call themselves health care providers and pay profits, as we were able to read last week. By the way, the CDA's motion to ban this has been widely adopted in the Chamber. It just happens. There are 12% more accounting costs overalls. I don't hear the Prime Minister about that. No, the costs must be borne by the home carers, because that is apparently the fat that needs to be cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u90	Mr President, of course one sector has not been looked at. In recent years we have had to take very difficult measures, including in health care. For example, we have managed to conclude broad-based agreements which have somewhat dampened growth, wide across the hospital sector. This will ensure that this growth does not go far ahead of economic growth. If that is the case in structural terms, this growth pushes other spending out of the big government nest. That's what this is about, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u92	The things Mr Roemer mentions do not yield these amounts. Mr President, a few other issues. Mr Roemer keeps shouting, but we'll talk about it further together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u93	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u94	The SGP has asked whether the death wish in psychiatric patients is so often linked to their illness that this is reason not to increase the pressure on psychiatrists to apply euthanasia. That was a question from Mr Van der Staaij. I have a few things to say about that. In psychiatric patients there may indeed be a death wish that is a symptom of their condition, for example depression or psychosis. However, this does not have to be the case. Also in psychiatric patients there may be a death wish that can be met within the euthanasia law. If all due diligence requirements of the law are met, including a voluntary and considered request and unbearable and hopeless suffering, the treating physician may, under those particular circumstances, grant euthanasia to a patient. This is the general line of the euthanasia law that is being applied, including in groups such as dementias and psychiatric patients. Each individual case must, of course, always be assessed in accordance with the law and all guarantees. It is important to stress here that psychiatrists are not obliged to participate in a euthanasia request, as is the case for doctors in general. There is no right to euthanasia. It is always a doctor's choice whether or not to respond to a request. We have also agreed in the government agreement on how to deal with sensitive issues relating to medical and ethical issues in the near future. We agreed to look at the state of medical science, the state of the social debate that is taking place and the wider political debate that needs to be held. This has led to the texts contained in the government agreement, for example on how we deal with embryo selection or embryo cultivation. It has also led to the texts contained in the government agreement on other important medical issues, such as the Manifest Ageing and also the question of the possible extension of euthanasia legislation. On one point, I still owe Mr Asscher an explanation. It is about the question he asked me as chairman of the Group of the European People's Party for Freedom and Democracy in the last debate on the results of the information. Mr Pechtold responded to that yesterday. I'm trying to get it back for myself. My answer was wrong, because we did intend to repeal that law. We didn't want to be sneaky about that either. That is why that law is also included in the list of legislative proposals to be repealed. Mr Pechtold raked the garden for me yesterday, for which I am grateful. I can confirm what he said then. Whether it was the NIP test or if I thought "he's making it very exciting and I don't know what it is exactly," at least it was a misunderstanding on my side. It was in no way intended to be mysterious about that. Mr Pechtold referred to the fact that it came up in the coalition meeting on Monday. It came up a little earlier, Friday last week, two days before that in the Council of Ministers when we had the list of legislative proposals to withdraw. We discussed this in more detail in the coalition talks. So since last Friday, I've at least noticed that I've been messing around here. I am going to try to keep that to a minimum in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u95	Before I give the floor to Mr Asscher, have all the questions relating to medical and ethical matters been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u97	Yes. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u98	I would like to talk about the combination of sensitive issues. We have seen that the abortion pill has been removed, albeit without secrecy, but it is happening. We have seen that for research into serious hereditary diseases requiring embryo research, a kind of freeze has been agreed. We have also seen that the NIP test remains available, but we do not know whether it will remain accessible to people who cannot pay the full price. That certainly raises the question of whether the prism, the spelling formula, is not a delay button for one of the four parties. I say that because there is a reference to a social debate. These are all three subjects that have been the subject of the social debate. I say that because there is a reference to the possibility of alternatives. It is all three subjects in which, if there were alternatives, we would choose them. So it gives the impression that they didn't want to write "we're shutting this down" and therefore that prism has found as a way to offer comfort, which I can understand in itself. But be transparent about this, especially in the direction of patients who hope for this research, especially in the direction of women who are worried during pregnancy about what might go wrong and towards women who are faced with the terrible decision whether or not they will abort their pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u99	That's not what happened. It is fine that Mr Asscher says that it could have happened this way, but that is not how it happened. It has been a very special part of the information, in which we have discussed these sensitive issues very extensively and with great respect. We have established, of course, that parties look at this from very different angles. We have also noted with each other that major social changes in this area, including in the past, have taken time and have not been rushed. Look at the abortion laws and euthanasia laws. That took 10, 15 years. Then we asked ourselves how we should have that discussion. How do you do that? To begin with, after a few difficult moments in the information, we have determined with each other that we are always going to get out of this, that we will come out every time in a respectful way. That wasn't enough to start the cabinet. Then we came to a conclusion, apart from the precise party political points of view on these issues. My own party, by the way, always makes free issues in its own group and thus has a slightly different position in it than other parties. Anyway, all parties have their own position in that. We then found that you should look at that discussion first with the question of what is actually medically possible, what is the state of it. You can see, for example, that there are very different views at the GPs about the Writing of Pregnancy and the abortion pill. Next, the question is what authoritative people think of it, wider than just what is medically-technically possible. Finally, what is the state of the social debate about it? What is social acceptance? How's it growing? This has also happened in the past, with other subjects. This is how we want to continue to do it in the coming period, with great respect for each other. This is indeed a more extensive paragraph in the coalition agreement. We've talked about this for a really long time, but I'm not ashamed of that at all. I wouldn't have gone for the short blow anyway. Even if the VVD had had the absolute majority here alone, I would not have been in favour of that. I really think it's good that we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u100	That's why I'm not asking the question about completed life. I think we all feel in this Chamber that this discussion may not be ready yet, at least not for everyone. The debate on embryo research has been intense since 2006. So that's the ten-year term you're talking about. As a result of this discussion, the medical status and advice of others, Minister Schippers made a very careful and very limited legislative proposal, for my part, on what should and should not be possible, for the benefit of women who have had cancer and yet want to have a child and for the prevention of very serious hereditary diseases. I would be extremely sorry if we were to deny that the social debate has been, pretend that this proposal is not careful and put patients and people who are worried about it on hold. That is the first question. My second question is about the abortion pill. It is true that there are general practitioners who are concerned about this, which is a point that Pechtold also made yesterday about what it can bring with it. There are also very clear advantages to providing that abortion pill via the general practitioner. It's more low-threshold. So you have a chance that women would rather make that difficult choice, with less serious consequences and more opportunities for aftercare. In addition, I would like to point out that a general practitioner can also play a role in preventing future unwanted pregnancies. So isn't it much more reasonable to propose the bill for amendment or improvement? By withdrawing it, you are causing a considerable delay here too, which is incredibly important for women in a very vulnerable position. They're getting... I don't know what it is I'm hearing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u101	There's someone who agrees with you in the public gallery, I'm afraid. A baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u102	Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u103	We could use a few more young voters, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if the right to vote is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u104	I hope not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u105	It is these two points that are at stake. Assuming that what the Prime Minister is saying is true, it's not a trick for delay and it's not an incantational formula, that prism is able to do it at least at the point of that very selected, specified embryo research right now. Then you could go another way on that abortion pill. I'd really appreciate it if I could. That does not affect the due diligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u106	Let's walk past it. I'll start with the Wafz. There was actually no discussion between these four parties, although perhaps due to different considerations they came to the conclusion that the legislative proposal should be withdrawn. For example, because the relationship between the GP and the patient is stronger. The Council of State, in its opinion, is extremely critical of this point, because only half of the cases are the family doctor to whom the unwanted pregnant woman is the first to address herself at an early stage of pregnancy, while at the same time the entire bureaucratic burden and the complete under-utilization of the general practitioner only further complicates the matter in the bureaucratic sense. There is also a lot of discussion among general practitioners about this, and in particular about the administrative burden. That is why parties have finally said to each other that it is better if the bill does not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u107	Sorry, can I at that point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u108	Well, maybe I could finish, because you also had the question about embryo selection and embryo cultivation. It's not like there's no way to investigate embryos under this cabinet. Well, that's possible. Only what we want to look very carefully at is whether embryo farming should be allowed. That is, of course, extremely sensitive in the confessional circle. We don't have to be secretive about that either. It is true that research is taking place in a few countries. I was thinking in five countries right now. Dutch science can also simply take advantage of the outcome of that research. It is therefore not true that, because we would not do so here, new insights resulting from medical research would not be at the service of the Netherlands. At the same time, the research carried out with embryos remaining after IVF treatment continues. We have agreed above that we extend the possibilities for sex choice in diseases where the sex can be very decisive for the disease. This already happens in a number of cases, as with the hereditary breast cancer gene, but it has been agreed to extend it to a hereditary form of blindness, LHON, and other forms of breast cancer. Based on that sex choice, you have a fairly large degree of certainty that it only occurs with the boy or girl. So we'll make that possible. We are also expanding that a little bit. So we do things, but that is indeed with embryos that remain after IVF. There is no doubt that the sensitivity is there. I do not run away from that in the question of embryoculture. That is a very sensitive one: creating life with the aim of destroying it again. Of this, I note that what is taking place internationally in research and the results of it, are simply at the service of the Dutch medical science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u109	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u110	Finally, Mr President. On the first point, I continue to find it very unsatisfactory that, where parliamentary treatment has actually started, the first ministerial council of the new cabinet decides to withdraw the law, thereby denying Parliament the possibility, for example, of responding to the concerns of general practitioners, but also of meeting the real benefits laid down in the legislative proposal. I do not think that is a good thing, especially on such a sensitive subject, when you tell the page after it that the discussion should take place. The option of the abortion pill via the general practitioner is withdrawn here on Friday. On the contrary, I think it is logical that only half of the cases in which women turn to the general practitioner, because they cannot do very much. You can at least have the full parliamentary debate. Then you can always rescind that law. So my request would be to reconsider that withdrawal, so that there too we can have a full social and parliamentary debate on this subject, because it affects women deeply. Two: the point of embryo selection. I get that. I understand the choices that have been made. Only there's a wording that makes it unclear what the deal is. You cannot at the same time refer to the sensitivity, and say: that appointment is actually quite normal, because you have to deal with this kind of thing carefully. We were ready. So then the deal is, we shut it down. Then you don't need prism. Then you have to be honest and say: this is a concession done in this case. I can imagine, given the composition of the cabinet, but be clear about that, otherwise you'll send people with a bum in the reeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u111	I think that the latter is too short. It may be that the first test, which is what is going on with medical science, is a long way off. But if we look at the second test that we consider important, the second prism, namely the medical-ethical dimension and what other interests there are, and certainly the third, namely the political reflection and the broad social debate, then ten years, for such a fundamental point, the creation of life to then destroy it too, perhaps with, I say from my own perspective, very good reasons, but nevertheless for other parties a very sensitive issue is not enough to harden the whole of society. I really don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u112	I am here for another part of medical ethics, which the Prime Minister has just spoken about, the euthanasia regulation. Widening awareness of euthanasia legislation is also one of the points of the coalition agreement. As you know, we do not agree with this as a SGP, but I am concerned about the interpretation of those words. Can I explain in this way, having just heard the Prime Minister's reply, that at least it is not intended that this extension could put some kind of pressure on doctors to go more euthanasia?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u113	What we want to do here is this. I'm just going to check it out in the text, because you have all these fine prints; I have an earlier version. This is the Schnabel report. The Schnabel report was a very well-balanced report, in which it was said that a number of things need to be looked at, also in order to see what is still possible within the current euthanasia practice. That's on the abstracted level. That's not meant to put pressure on the doctors. This is meant to see what could be further from the system of the law as it is now, and what other possibilities there are within the law. It's not meant to put pressure on doctors to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u114	At least that's good to hear, because it actually has a broadening effect when you state explicitly: look what can be done under that law; there can be much more than we all think now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u115	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u116	The Prime Minister would answer the first part of my question. It was about suspending the repeal of the bill on the abortion pill until after the pros and cons were discussed in Parliament for a broad social and parliamentary debate. This ball is now being pulled out of the game by the coalition, which does not really fit in with the careful description of how the discussion should be conducted on other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u117	Yes, but that discussion does not always have to take place on the basis of legislative proposals. We really don't like the bill. That's not just him at the point I just mentioned. There are other aspects. One of them I just mentioned: the relationship between GP and patient is supposed to be stronger than it is in practice. The discussion among general practitioners about the fear of extra red tape is behind that. As you can also see in the opinion of the Council of State, which was extremely critical of this bill, the current practice of abortion is good and careful. As far as the Council of State is concerned, it is not possible to prove the meaning of this bill. Finally, a second evaluation of the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy (Wafz) is to be carried out. The Council of State said: is it not strange that the next step is being taken, while all this is still going on and the whole consultation is still going on? I think it would be good to do this step by step. This law has now been repealed. At some point, that evaluation will come. We will then be able to examine further what follow-up steps are desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u118	I would like to make a final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u119	My conclusion is that the four men who formed the coalition think that this discussion is ready and that the law can be dismissed, on the long run. I am on the side of former Minister Edith Schippers and the women who do appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u120	I'll join Education and then I'll join State Department and Justice and Security. On education, many comments were made yesterday but not in a conflicting sense. The word "teacher shortage" was not mentioned in the coalition agreement. No, neither is the word "islam" nor other words, but we are going to deal with the shortage of teachers. Now the question is: what is the story for teachers in secondary education and the MBO? We have included a few things in the coalition agreement. In the first place, tuition fees for students at teacher training courses are cut in half in the second year of study, making it more attractive to take up such a course. We are also going to differentiate teacher training. Specializations will focus on younger or older children. This makes the profession of teacher more attractive, both for men and women. Together with the social partners, teacher training, school boards and municipalities, we will work on a number of actions to reduce the deficit. In this context, it is important to promote side entry, increase the influx of teacher training, and maintain teachers for education, as well as a number of other important considerations. Then there was a question about early school education. In particular, it is intended to allow children at risk of disadvantage to benefit from additional incentives at an early age. Research shows that by following pre-school education they can catch up with some of the delays before they start in primary school. There is an additional 170 million available for this. So it's not meant for all 2- to 4-year-olds, it's meant for the kids at risk of falling behind. Green education is terribly complicated. In any case, it is intended to achieve the equal funding from a single budget for the whole of education as of 1 January 2019. Although, of course, I have all the facts available here and could answer all the questions, we could also agree briefly that the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, together with the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, is sending a letter to the Chamber on the elaboration of these elements of the coalition agreement. I see that Mr Baudet now wants to know what is going on with green education. I'm gonna finish the part about education first. However, I have already answered all the questions that have been asked about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u121	The Prime Minister just said that the word "teacher shortage" is not in the coalition agreement, neither is the word "islam," but we are going to deal with the shortage of teachers. Is the Prime Minister going to work with Islam, or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u122	No, like Buddhism, we're not going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u124	I also have such a short question, namely whether this letter on green education could come before and not after the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yeah, it's for the budget. You see, I make all these decisions myself. This is about education. We're already at point ten. Dan Homeland. Then I come to Justice and Security and energy and climate. The Intelligence and Security Services Act, which has so much to do about it, is for a reason. I want to start by explaining why I'm in politics. Yes, of course, for infrastructure and education and low costs and everything about government policy, but ultimately, at the heart of the matter, we have one task: to keep the country safe. We simply have to note that at the moment the people who are willing to go to the extreme to literally overthrow our way of life have certain techniques at their disposal and that our services are not able to control them sufficiently at this time. That's why I'm fierce for that Intelligence and Security Act. And yes, then you have to work extremely carefully with such a law even if there is a social debate about it. For starters, you need to be very sharp on what the law isn't. The law isn't about the random collection of all information, the unlimited collection and retrieval of data streams. That would also not work at all, because the services would then be completely overpowered. It's not about bringing in datahoo mountains, it's about getting the pins out of that haystack. We need to know exactly what we're looking for. That's the purpose of that law. Suppose you were very suspicious and would think: yes, but those services actually have a very different purpose. If that were the case, the legislator would not allow it to do so and control it from all sides. So even if services are prepared to do things that should not be done again, I insist that this is not the case, then absolute safety clamps will be put on them and independent committees will check on all sides that this does not happen. This law is therefore necessary, because we are now communicating not only with the letter and the old telephone lines, but also with modern data technology. So it's really crucial that that law is passed. So what is important in the near future? We agreed on this in the coalition agreement. That's a few things. It is precisely because of social concern that we have said that we are bringing forward the evaluation. If the evaluation, which we are going to bring forward, gives rise to amendments to the law, then that will be, I believe, two years from now, then we will also propose these adjustments. That's one. Secondly, the law contains a number of safeguards, such as prior and time-limited ministerial authorisation, a prior legal test by the Supervisory Commission, targeted deployment, as short as possible retention and destruction, separation of functions and tasks, compartmentalisation of access to data and ex post supervision by the Commission of the Intelligence and Security Services to a lawful execution. We have agreed not only to say that it is good that they are in the law, but also to work on it with priority and full attention. There will also be a letter from the Minister of the Interior on this point, which will show how we are going to do all this. This is really very important to me. I said the other day a little rude in an RTL broadcast where I sat with Mr Segers. I then used words that I will certainly not repeat in the Chamber. I didn't abuse a biblical term there, but I went a long way. But if you see how terrorism is currently taking place in Europe and globally to move forward step by step and to pose a threat to our type of society, then we need to give our services the tools to do that work. Guys, that's really crucial. And if we don't, then we run risks that I really think we shouldn't want to run as politicians. Then the question remains, but now I repeat, so then I stop: what are the guarantees, when do you evaluate, how do you take into account all the concerns that exist among people and can be justified? Yeah, I get that. So that's what we should do. And once again, Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior, will also come forward with further reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u126	The Animal Party is totally opposed to this tow law and we are therefore very happy to congratulate the initiators on this way of holding a referendum in March. That's what my question is about. I understand this week that the date of entry into force of the law has been postponed to 1 May, i.e. until after the referendum. During the referendum on Ukraine, we saw that the cabinet postponed the reaction to the result of the referendum indefinitely, while all sorts of things were already in motion to allow the Ukraine Treaty to enter into force. I would like to assure this Prime Minister that, if the referendum has been and the outcome is there, the law cannot enter into force until after the cabinet has responded to the result of the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u127	The bad news is that the law has already entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u128	Then I think it's okay to have that clear here. So what does the message mean that it was postponed until May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u129	That is that part of the law that is linked to the review committee and which it must monitor. That part of the law will enter into force as soon as the review committee has formed. We are working hard on that right now. And I think the bet is May 1st or June 1st. I hear now that 1 May is probably feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u130	It is inconceivable that, while there is not even a review committee yet, the law has already entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u131	That's not news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u132	The fact that a referendum will be held in March indicates even more the urgency for this cabinet to make a pass in its place. It is now up to the citizens to hold a consultative referendum on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u133	Wait a minute: that law was passed by the Lower House and the Upper House in the knowledge that the entry into force would not depend on a referendum. That's just a decision we've all made. That is public; everyone knows that. There's nothing mysterious about that. So that law is in effect. There is one aspect that has to do with that part that the committee also supervises. That part can't enter into force until that committee arrives. We thought it might be there on 1 January, but it takes more time, because people need to be searched and then subjected to extensive screening. That's gonna take more time than we thought, so it's gonna be May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u134	It remains to be seen that, if the result of the referendum is there, the cabinet will come forward with a response as soon as possible and will not take any further steps to complete and implement that law, as we will then have a result that we will first have to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u135	No. Very pure: we now have two things. We have a law that is in force. An aspect of that law can only enter into force if that committee is present. That's one trajectory. That is completely separate from the referendum. There is also a referendum. If that was a referendum, the law states what the cabinet should do after the outcome of the referendum is known. Of course, we will all take those steps, but that is separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u136	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u137	In fact, the Prime Minister says here: it doesn't matter that there will be a referendum, because the law goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u138	The law is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yeah, but the referendum's not gonna make any difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u140	No. This is nothing mysterious, this is just the way it is. You can hold a referendum on a law and then such a law will be delayed until the referendum has taken place. The Chamber has decided to adopt that law in the knowledge that the entry into force will not be delayed by any referendum. If there is a referendum with a conclusion that advises the Netherlands to stop that law, then the cabinet should consider it. Then, for example, we can decide to submit a law repealing the Intelligence and Security Services Act. It is a disaster if we do that, because then we have nothing at all. We are going to work hard to prevent that being the result, because I am extremely motivated to explain to the Netherlands why that law is so crucial. But if things do go wrong, then we have to consider ourselves as a cabinet in accordance with the temporary referendum law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u141	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u142	All right, Mr President, I would very much like to know from this cabinet whether, after this referendum, it is prepared to set a deadline for a response to the outcome of the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u143	Now I would say with my German colleague: Schritt für Schritt. Why don't we take it one step at a time? First of all, make sure that the referendum takes place neatly and, above all, all of us, at least everyone who wants it, try to convince the Netherlands that we are not doing this as a toy for anyone, but that it is necessary to protect this country from terrorism, against the bastards who are the worst with our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u144	Final comment or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u145	Then the Prime Minister learned nothing from the great indignation that was there after the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty and the cabinet only reacted months later. It is therefore important now to clarify in advance when the cabinet will react. You take a deadline for that, so that people know where they stand instead of having to train the cabinet endlessly, so that people still don't know whether such a referendum is being taken seriously or not. That's why I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u146	I don't understand this angry reaction, because I don't think I've given any cause for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u147	If he doesn't understand the angry reaction, Mr President, I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u148	You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u149	We both want confidence in the cabinet, confidence in politics, to be restored, don't we? We saw at the Ukraine referendum that people were furious that nothing was done with the result of the referendum. In any case, people were angry about the fact that there was no response, that it was only endlessly waiting for them. I would very much like the Prime Minister to make it clear that he is not going to do this again when the outcome of the referendum on the drag law is known. So I want us to agree on a time limit within which the cabinet will come up with a response. I think that's procedurally pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u150	The law is clear about that too. We enforce the law and the law says all kinds of things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u151	Will you continue unless Mr. Roemer has another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u152	A very short one. What did the Prime Minister think of Mr Buma's ruling on the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u153	I've taken note of that. That is the view of the CDA on this law and on how to deal with a possible outcome of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u154	May I conclude from this that it is not the position of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u155	The cabinet will implement the law, but I have already made it clear that I, and this whole team, am very motivated to ensure that the law can continue to exist, because it is crucial for our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u156	It's a credit to the Prime Minister that he wants to go on a campaign. He's very convinced to do it. I look forward to it. I missed him at the Ukraine referendum. This could be a lot of fun. I think that's the way it should be. If you are convinced that something is good or if you are convinced that it is not good, you must get the population on the basis of arguments and campaigning. We still have the law on referenda. It would be good not to say in advance: no matter what comes out, I'll patch it up to my boot. I assume you will confirm that you are not going to do so, that you are going to campaign with conviction but will take the result seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u157	Let me get this straight. We are very motivated to be able to continue with that law. We will implement the referendum law. It sets out exactly what steps we need to take in which scenario. Every political group in this Chamber has every right to say how it sees fit to deal with the outcome of a referendum. Every group here is free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u158	That is true, but I asked the cabinet now and I assume that the cabinet takes it seriously and that, if there is a very clear result, it does not say in advance, regardless of the outcome: we are not doing anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u159	There are all suggestions about colleagues that I am going to leave behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u160	This question has also been asked a few times by Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yes, but I just want a clear answer. We're inviting people to a referendum. The prime minister can't like that in the main because he's not in favour of referenda, I know that. But we got him. Soon we will ask people to vote in a referendum as well. As long as that law exists, I can assume that we take him seriously. I want a very clear signal. Even though I know what outcome the Prime Minister wants, what he is going for, I would like to have the message from the Cabinet that as long as the referendum law exists, this law will also be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u162	Just a little more specific. The cabinet has to enforce the law. That applies to all laws. The law gives the cabinet a special responsibility when a referendum takes place. The law prescribes exactly what to do after the referendum, what steps to take. We will be careful about it. I am very motivated to let that whole process lead to a good outcome. You know what I agree with, but we'll just implement that law in a decent way. But that law does not force political groups in the Lower House to say in advance that they will not make that assessment until after the referendum has taken place. That is what Mr Roemer suggested. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have every right to say what they think of that. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u163	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u165	I see Mr Buma at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u166	By the way, I am ready when it comes to the Wiv and the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u167	Then Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u168	I want to go a little wider, to the intelligence and security services. Yesterday I talked about the threats we have in the Netherlands and in the Western world, because of the influence of Russia, for example, but possibly also of other countries, on our public opinion. America is now investigating what happened in the campaign and even in England it is feared that the Russians have played a role in the Brexit. My request to the cabinet is to take seriously this particular threat, which comes from Russia but perhaps also from other countries. Perhaps the cabinet in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which includes the AIVD, can indicate how we deal with this threat. Perhaps the cabinet could also indicate whether there is a need for further investigation into whether this kind of influence actually exists in the Netherlands and, if so, how we should defend ourselves against it and what we can do about it. I see what is happening in America and England and I do not see why this would not be the case in the Netherlands. I'm very honest with you about that. I think it's an acute problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u169	It seems to me that this is a good suggestion, particularly in the light of your question. It's an important matter. Such a letter for budgetary treatment seems to me to be a good suggestion, exactly as you suggest. I can already hear Ank Bijleveld of Defence say that NATO will be discussing this issue this week or next week. In any case, the letter from the Minister of the Interior will be sent. Mr. Chairman. Actually, not many questions have been asked about WNT3. It was more critical. The coalition agreement is clear about why we are doing this. All the arguments are in that too. Maybe, given the amount of time we're taking together, I can refer to that coalition agreement. They also asked about the construction ambition in the coalition agreement. To this end, we are fully aware that, as a result of the recession in recent years, housing production is naturally lagging behind demand. Of course, that also has consequences. Especially now that the economy is recovering, housing demand is rapidly increasing. We're not gonna solve that alone, I assure you. The Minister of the Interior will make agreements with many local parties, including municipalities, commercial developers and housing corporations. That is exactly what is described in the coalition agreement. The need for this is clear to everyone. Then there is the question of whether the rent allowance is being cut. We're gonna make the rent increase a little less in the years to come. On the other hand, we remove the hard income limit from the rent payment, which means that people no longer lose the rent payment by a few euros. On balance, the rent payment is somewhat limited. In 2021, you'll be talking about an amount of 29 million. We're not going to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. The evaluation of the landlord's tax, which was discussed with the House of Representatives last year, shows that the landlords have room to invest, also with the maintenance of the landlord's tax. This would be a breach of 1.7 billion in the budget. Mr President, I come to Justice and Security. I'll start with the alleged cuts. You can see that under the line spending on the budget is falling. There is a clear explanation for this, namely the reduction in estimated expenditure on asylum and migration. They're taking quite a bit off. As you can see, the impact of the large asylum influx in 2015 and the follow-up passengers is slowly decreasing. This will significantly reduce expenditure on the asylum budget in the coming years. If you correct it for that, you won't see a drop in the budget. Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the threat of terror. No, I think we've dealt with them before. One question I have to deal with here is that of law on prostitution. This question came from Mr Van der Staaij in an interruption with Mr Segers yesterday. The cabinet will soon take up the approximation of the law on prostitution as mentioned in the government agreement. This means, among other things, that the bill on the regulation of the prostitution sector, which is already in the Upper House, needs to be amended. In doing so, advice is needed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority and then the Council of State. Then there is also the question of intake at local level in the coalition agreement. For this, it is necessary to enter into consultation with municipalities, which have to hold the conversation. The ban on pimping from the coalition agreement will take some time because of the precise wordings contained in the coalition agreement. I don't think we're gonna last six months. We're gonna need a little more time. But we're gonna work hard on it. Mr. Chairman. I come to energy and climate. I'll leave the targets there as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u170	Before you go any further, I think Mr Klaver has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u171	I also asked a question about the investments in the police in my first term. I'm glad there's a very nice investment in the police. But it also states that the flexibilisation agenda must first be continued. That's one of the things I'm worried about. When I look at the police, this also applies to very different places in the public sector, I see that there is an enormous workload in police officers. You can see there are a lot of stress-related complaints. If you say 'you will get more money to solve all these problems, but we need to push through that flexibility agenda', I wonder what the background to that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u172	The facts are as follows. We are investing heavily: a total of 0.5 billion in structural terms, including police, strengthening the criminal justice chain and cybersecurity. This is on top of what the previous cabinet already did: the 0.25 billion that was added to the 2016 budget, the 450 million in the 2017 budget and the another 100 million in the 2018 budget. On top of that is the 0.5 billion. Furthermore, the intention is to continue with matters that are currently under way within the Justice Department in order to strengthen police work there. But there is a lot of extra money available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u173	The Prime Minister has read out an answer, but has not answered my question. The question I asked... the Prime Minister has a word with the Minister behind him. Maybe there should be a meeting first. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u174	No, go on. I'll listen to you both at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u175	That's very handsome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u176	You're standing with your back towards me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u177	I'll just wait quietly. I'm all about getting a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u178	No, you're just gonna keep going. This is a team effort we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u179	Sure. That's why I'm very happy. Talk as much as you need. As long as I get the answer I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u180	That's my only purpose!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u181	It's a pleasure for you. Mr. Chairman. I see extra money goes to the police. That's good. I'd like to compliment you on that. I also see that the condition for making that money available is that the flexibility agenda be extended. But when you talk to the police, you will find that they are very concerned about this flexibilisation, that this causes even more stress, while removing the workload is linked to it. My question to the Prime Minister is very specific: make sure that money goes to the policemen who need it without this additional condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u182	I do not understand what would be against a self-wide adjustment of personnel policy within the police to try to get a more flexible commitment. Why would that not relate to an additional financial investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u183	That is because this flexibilisation agenda is not at all so broad-based, because many police officers are very concerned about this, because they find that the pressure they already experience at work has to do with, among other things, the flexibility that exists. That is why I ask Mr Rutte as Prime Minister, but also as VVD leader, VVD's always stand up for the security chain, for the police to see it apart, also as a sign of trust towards the police officer. I understand that there may be a need for a flexibilisation agenda, but don't link it to those investments. Now it really is in the coalition agreement as a condition: that money will be available if we continue with the flexibilisation agenda. I'd like to get out of that clutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u184	I recognize that, of course. If you take part in shifts, you will see that there are a number of concerns: the number of agents pouring in, of course the salary and also these modernisations. But the nice thing now is that we can make a lot of extra money available to the police, but also continue with the flexibilisation agenda, which is needed to make police deployment more flexible. Just now that extra money is available, isn't it so crazy to put on that clutch? Then you also take some of the care away from the cops on the street, from the cops on the street, who might say, without that extra investment, it would be too much for me. This additional investment is, in fact, conditional on the success of the project. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u185	We also just had a debate about the care and the way you talk about the people who work in healthcare. I think it's about the people who work in the police being respected...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u186	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u187	... because they do important work and that we as politicians are there for them. It starts in the coalition agreement with really nice sentences, about 267 million euros extra. But then it says: "To increase capacity, additional resources are available, subject to the continuation of the flexibilisation agenda" and, for example, to address restrictions in relation to the Working Time Act. What I would like to do is just to say clearly: whatever agreements we make with you, you have a right to this money, that's what you get. I understand that you want to continue as a cabinet and that it is your political desire to make adjustments to the Working Time Act or to the flexibilisation agenda. But I don't think we're doing justice to the cops with this link. And I think they're gonna think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u188	In any case, it is not intended to give any kind of disrespect to the men and women on the streets who keep the country safe. On the contrary, I have the utmost respect for them. There's a lot of money going to the police, and rightly so. A lot of money has already gone and extra money is going to go. That's all necessary. But I do not think it is surprising that you then have the discussion and say: there are certain modernisations that are needed, and that is what we are going to continue with. Just now that extra money is being made available, almost 300 million, you would think that would be an additional incentive to shape the modernisation and flexibilisation agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u189	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u190	That is an incentive to perhaps agree with what the cabinet wants, while the unions look very differently at it. I really hope that the Prime Minister is prepared to admit that he wants to release the harsh conditions that are in it, and that the agents can really count on them to get this, and not only if they agree to the conditions that this cabinet has set. I don't think we're in a position right now to set all kinds of conditions for these agents. In recent years, they have had a very hard time with the major reorganisation that has taken place with the police. This money has to go there anyway. I would like that to be Mr Rutte's message this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u191	I'm not crossing that bridge right now. On the contrary, I think it is logical that, if you put extra money into it and remove a number of bottlenecks, you should also ask the police not to even accelerate, but to continue with energy with a number of very justified modernisations within the police. I don't think there's anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u193	Mr. Chairman. I come to energy and climate. A question has been asked about the target for 2050. It is no different than the objective of the previous cabinet. It could have been in this coalition agreement. This objective is: between 80% and 95% by 2050. That is the current European ambition. Apparently, this is not well included in the text. It is therefore the objective which the previous cabinet also had. The PBL gave birth to a report on exactly what the government is doing to achieve the climate goal. I think that's a good story. The PBL shows that a number of things have already been worked out in the coalition agreement and that they have certain effects, and that a lot of things still have to be worked out. If all that had worked out, we could really delete the Councils of Ministers on Friday. Then I could say to every ruler: here's your piece, do what it says here, and only if anything else happens in the world we'll get together. I believe that we have already gone quite far in the way of a coalition agreement. It's a lot more extensive than you normally would. I also think that this is very useful, because it allows you to test each other's kidneys in the new coalition: are we really all prepared to take these measures? Much remains to be done, of course, but the ambitions stand. There was a question about the reduction target. It's exactly in the coalition agreement. There will be a 49% national target in 2030 compared to 1990. We want to let go of all the other targets that used to be underneath. So we are going for that one goal of maximum and efficient CO reduction. Nevertheless, we in Europe really want to try to increase it to 55%. So we are going to argue for a target of 55% by 2030. In the end, of course, we will have to see what comes out of the European negotiations. If we do not like that goal, we will try to reach a higher goal with neighbouring countries. I think there's a good chance for that, too. My next point is underground storage. If I understood Mr Pechtold correctly during the previous debate here, in which I was the group chairman, it is as follows. GroenLinks 13% and the cabinet 18% plus 2% is 20%. I'd say we'll finish it at 15% or 16%. That is, of course, too simple, but the fact is... I see an interruption, Mr President, but perhaps I can finish the various points. I don't have a lot of questions to answer anymore. The fact is that the PBL also says that CCS, i.e. the storage of CO, should be part of a package. All studies also show that virtually all techniques are needed to achieve the enormous CO reduction that is needed. This is also apparent from the study of 9 October. It also shows that CCS is a way of achieving at least some of it at the lowest possible cost. So it's really an indispensable technology. The question then, of course, was whether you could use SDE+ funds for this. I would not like to have an overly fundamental discussion about this, but rather a practical one. A euro can only be spent once, and we want to do so as efficiently as possible. Everything is aimed at achieving the central objective of the Paris climate agreement. The PBL has indicated that CCS is therefore also necessary. It is also interesting to note that, by introducing a bottom price for CO in the energy sector, the share of renewable energy will grow significantly in this cabinet period. We have not included this as a separate objective, but if that share increases, it will contribute to the entire CO reduction. Then they asked about Shell and NAM's teaching material. I refer to freedom of education, but I agree with those who say that it is nice when what is in those booklets, in the distance, is similar to reality. I think that, especially after the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement, we should ask the fossil fuel industry not only in its books, but also in reality with full energy to turn to renewable energy. I know that's what they want. They also asked about Groningen. The coalition agreement is very precise about that. It is our ambition to further reduce gas production in a way that we achieve two things at the same time. Firstly, we should not cut off pieces of the Netherlands from the gas grid because there is not enough gas available, which can bring great dangers. Secondly, we want to try to have a production method where we win as flat as possible and have as few peaks as possible in the extraction process. In addition, there are of course great things going on above ground: the reinforcement that has to take place, the renovation of houses, the distance of the NAM and the agreement on the damage protocol as soon as possible. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs is going to work very hard to try to clarify this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u194	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u195	Yes, I wanted to answer all the energy and climate questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u196	First a small correction as to the amount of CO that CCS could achieve. That's not about percent. It's about megaton. Small point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u197	Exactly, 13 megatons; 18 plus 2. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u198	The question I have concerns the objective of the previous coalition agreement. It included a target for 2050 of 100% renewable energy. Is this objective now being abandoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u199	Yes, because we are not going to set separate targets. We're just doing a CO target.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u200	Okay. So, if I understand correctly, there is a step backwards from the previous cabinet when at least by 2050 there was the ambition to have 100% renewable energy. Why is that so important? If you don't have that dot on the horizon, it's for companies at the expense of their investment security. If we're gonna change our economy, we're gonna have to do two things. Firstly, we need to reduce CO emissions. Secondly, we must ensure that alternative sources of energy are created. You also need a direction for where we are going with the share of renewable energy. Why did you let this go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u201	The whole point is this. We had a discussion in Europe on the three different objectives. What you ultimately want is to achieve the CO target as efficiently as possible: the 80% to 95% by 2050 and the 49% or 55%. In the end, there is a result of the European debate and that is what it will be. If you don't like it, you're gonna try to boost it with surrounding countries. Having multiple objectives next to each other ultimately leads to inefficiency. It may well be that we will reach 80% to 95% by 2050 and that this 100% renewable energy is still extremely sensible, but then we will have to talk to the Chamber about this in the coming period. But we are not in favour of having separate objectives alongside the main objective of CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u202	I know this discussion. The Climate Act, which we have submitted with D66 and ChristenUnion among others, does not set a target for 2030, but it does set a target for 2050. It therefore includes the long-term renewable energy objective. Why am I asking this? I'm worried about this when I see the PBL bill. The Planning Office for the Environment shows that at the end of this cabinet period less renewable energy is generated than if this cabinet did not take action. That is why I ask Mr Rutte whether he is prepared to ensure that no less sustainable energy will be generated at the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u203	I'm very precise. This cabinet is committed to one objective: the CO reduction. This is the most efficient way of achieving climate goals. Mr. Klaver says that by 2050 you had a goal of 100%. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to look again with the Chamber in the coming period to see if there is any reason to keep this target for 2050, not more special for 2030, as an additional anchor. I can't exactly estimate that right now. I think it is right for the standing committee to discuss this target again for 2050. I have also heard a lot from Mr Klaver over the last few days about what this cabinet is and is not going to do in the coming period. That remains to be seen, because we still have to work out all these agreements. There is only one piece in the coalition agreement. Those are the measures we are investing there. The coalition agreement is also very precise, taken over from the PBL, where we are looking for the most efficient way of reducing CO emissions. Fortunately, in practice it is a little lower than we thought at the start of the cabinet. That was also from this week's PBL transfer. As I said yesterday in the government statement, we are going to develop things with municipalities, provinces, the new energy agreement and social parties, in such a way that there will soon be a plan that will really be stable until 2021 and 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u204	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u205	The CO reduction that is now contained in the coalition agreement is butter-smooth. That's what we concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u206	That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u207	Yesterday, in the debates with my fellow Members, I indicated that we are very willing to make this reduction very tough in the coming period and to ensure that we do not achieve 20% to 50% but 100% of the target. But I really am going back to renewable energy, because that was what my question was about. According to the accounts of the Planning Office for the Environment, at the end of the cabinet period we have less renewable energy than if the new cabinet would do nothing. How are we gonna prevent that? I don't want us to have less renewable energy in the future than if this cabinet hadn't been there. That is why I want the Prime Minister's undertaking that, although it is not a separate objective, there will be more renewable energy at the end of the cabinet period than foreseen in the basic path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u208	Calculations from the Planning Bureau for the Environment show that the share of renewable energy in the Netherlands is growing rapidly, especially if you take into account all the renewable energy projects that are currently in the pipeline. The previous cabinet has made a huge effort to this end. This cabinet will continue to do so. Impressive is also the innovation with wind energy at sea, which has been realised partly under the influence of Dutch policy in the past cabinet period. We will continue to do so as well. It has led to an impressive cost reduction, from 5 billion for a field to 300 million for a field. This provides the basis for rapid and cost-effective further growth in the future. I've heard Mr. Klaver over the last few days. I understand that he thinks: there is a coalition agreement that GroenLinks can hardly say no to, because it all looks very nice. Then he tries to come up with grassing at straws arguments why he doesn't say no to it, for example because the PBL says that not everything has worked out. Exactly, not everything has worked out; that's right. That must also be done in the coming years...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u209	I don't know if it has anything to do with the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u210	I'm getting approval from the public gallery. Even the babies agree with me, so the next generation. That said...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u211	Well, Mr. Rutte, when my kids at home react that way, they usually disagree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u212	That's a very good one, but it's because of the jerk-ass pajamas. That scares the hell out of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u213	I'd be scared too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u214	I won't tell you that the whole family has these pajamas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u215	That's child abuse!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u216	I see the Secretary of State just about shoving him under his couch. All this crazy is nice, but we're going back. I thought it was a wonderful attempt by Mr Rutte to say that he is trying to gather some arguments. Well, this happens to be a file I know a thing or two about. It's not that hard to find those arguments. We've had a wonderful report from the PBL. Browse with me to page 14. There you see the effect of CO storage. For anyone who may not be entirely at home in this debate: instead of releasing less CO, the idea now is to put as much CO underground as possible. We should pay for money that we normally spend on renewable energy, on solar panels and windmills. The PBL makes it very clear that the better you manage to put that CO underground, the more that is at the expense of the amount of windmills and solar panels in the Netherlands. I'm not making that up. It's just written here. I'm asking for something very simple. Will the Prime Minister promise that in the coming years the share of renewable energy will not decrease but increase further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u217	But not in the context of the impact on renewable energy compared to CCS. Mr Klaver is making a link now. Ultimately, this coalition wants to try to achieve the CO reduction targets in the most efficient way possible. That includes CCS. You cannot currently see exactly what is happening in 2020, 2025 and 2030. This must continue to be achieved in the future. There will still have to be a complete review of how we are going to shape the CCS project. The port of Rotterdam has already come forward; it wants to cooperate. That's very positive. The coalition agreement unleashes a great deal of positive energy in society, I see. We're getting a lot of positive reports about it. But in the end, you will also have to look at how that step by step develops over the next few years. That is precisely why we have said: we are steering towards CO reduction, which is the most important thing. It may well be that the share of renewable energy will increase much further in the coming years. This has happened in recent years. There is every reason to believe that this will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u218	The review of the Planbureau voor de Leef omgeving was also about the difference between the coalition parties and the opposition parties. The opposition parties say that the glass is half empty, while you can also say that it is half full; half the measures have been completed and much more is going to be filled in, but the targets are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u219	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u220	We have been asked repeatedly here yesterday whether there is an outstretched hand on this point or whether we can talk? I said before: I think there is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u221	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u222	I have great confidence in the Minister who is going to take this up. It must lead to a climate agreement, a climate law. But maybe it's okay if the cabinet can outline the route. How does the cabinet see the dialogue with society, with the port of Rotterdam and the environmental organisations, but also with the breadth of this Chamber? What's the route towards that chord and towards that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u223	I also outlined it yesterday in the government statement. We need to reach agreements with three relevant civil society actors or groups of actors, which ultimately translate the entire coalition agreement into action. Of course, it is very important that we get a climate and energy agreement. That should actually be at the heart of the whole project, so that we can implement all possible options to reduce greenhouse gases in the most cost-effective way. I don't have the exact timeline here. Perhaps the Minister could give me a note stating what timetable he has in mind. Then I'll be able to report it in a minute, because I don't have that right here right now. But we're gonna do that as soon as we can. I think the minister's already in the middle of something. Not these two days, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u224	At least the targets are clear. Mr Klaver's question was about resources. What do you need with CCS? How are you gonna finance that? Do I see it correctly when I say that the discussion about resources is subordinate to the objectives, so we can still adjust? I also include the invitation to society. I am thinking here of the trade union movement, the social consequences and those who are going to have to pay the energy bill. Will we always look for the breadth of that society when first concluding that agreement and then implementing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u225	Sure. That's why I'm also trying to park questions that lead to a containment of options in a friendly way. These are questions that lead to an extension of options, especially as regards what we do in consultation with civil society organisations. I'm gonna embrace that one. That's exactly how we want it. We want to avoid imposing unnecessary restrictions in this way. The Minister now informs me that he is working in his first week to precisely map that timetable and will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about what that timetable looks like. Knowing him, the entire CO reduction has already been realized in his head. Now it has to be done in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u226	I don't know if that's gonna be a problem. A little bit you need somewhere. Of course, many things contribute to reducing CO. CO provides warming and we have now agreed on clear targets. That could be wind power. That could be CCS. That could be isolation. Even wearing a jerk-ass pajamas can help, because that means you can turn the heater down a little bit. So everything helps to reduce those CO emissions. Now there's a threat of confusion every time. I think the targets are ambitious. The PBL indicates that the 2030 targets are clear and that the road to them is clear, that half of them have already been completed and that the other half will be coming to us soon. The Minister is already busy. As for the picture up to 2050, the PBL said: 80-95 and you should actually sit at the top. I thought there was just a little confusion between Mr Klaver and the Prime Minister, because one was talking about energy saving and the other about CO. I am concerned that there should be a target for CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u227	Yeah, yeah, sure. That's what I started. The CO target for 2050 has not changed, which remains 80 to 95, indeed leaning more to 95 than to 80. Then we can discuss what that means for energy saving. I said that the coalition is sending CO. I also said: let the Minister for Economic Affairs see if it might be important to put another anchor before 2050. Because there is a magnet, I want to prevent you from having to steer very much on that magnet instead of on the main message: the reduction of CO2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u228	That's great, because that's all gonna make sense. That's what's needed. I also think this is important. The PBL writes in its report, from which I also quoted yesterday, that bringing CSS under the SDE+ scheme could lead to competition, so that you can get more out of a grant euro. Rather than getting as much out of every grant euro as possible, I have to say that the business community is putting the euros into it. How do we ensure that, for example in the area of CCS, the costs are borne by industry in particular and not by us from those sparing subsidy euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u229	That's what we're gonna look at, of course. I very much agree with that. This can be done with co-financing or with other incentive programmes. On the first part of Mr Pechtold's remark, I think it is a good thing that we should not be restrictive here either by saying that the SDE+ scheme should not be used for this. If that's efficient, we'll do it. I also very much agree that not everything should come out of the taxpayer's pocket. Please!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u230	My main problem is that the cabinet is extending the measures for itself and actually starting with real measures only after it has been ruled out, namely after 2021. If we look, for example, at the ambition to close the coal plants, we see in the coalition agreement: we close the coal plants by 2030. So that's way beyond Rutte III. It also states that the timetable for the closure of coal plants will be reviewed by coal plants and other parties to the drafting of a new national energy agreement in 2023. This also means that it will not start until 2023, two years after this government has been ruled out. Is the cabinet open to opening up the energy agreement that is now in place, so as to see if coal power stations can close earlier? The Christian Union and D66 both said, even during the elections, that coal power stations should be closed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u231	Yeah, you can close them tomorrow. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I think you should do it a little efficiently, too. We now come with the introduction of a bottom price for CO in the energy sector. We then said that Mrs Thieme and I will close the last plant at Rutte VI. We'll see about that now. In the coming years, we will come up with a plan to do that. However, you have to be very careful, because if we do not do this smartly and wisely, we are going to spend a lot of money on this that I would much rather spend on other things. We are now introducing a CO price and making a plan. Mrs Thieme was talking about breaking open. As far as we are concerned, we are going to work on a climate and energy agreement that focuses on the whole cost-effectiveness, with the aim of achieving the objectives. But if you say "they have to close" now, you're gonna pay a huge social price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u232	How can this cabinet work on an energy agreement that should not be re-established until 2023? Only then can the ambitions of this cabinet be reflected. So I must insist here that it is mainly moving forward what this cabinet is doing. This cabinet is not about 2023 at all. How can we shut down the coal power stations before it closes down in 2023? Apparently, the cabinet doesn't think that's possible. This means that this cabinet is not the greenest at all, because coal plants are about the most polluting fossil industry in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u233	Eventually, it's a matter of how you do it in a little smart way. If you're going to say "on that date those things have to be closed" and you haven't even built in incentives with the construction of a CO prize and so on, then you're going to burn an incredibly large amount of money. I'd really be against that. This coalition agreement is almost the greenest in Europe. Not only do I think that, but this is also widely recognised in Europe. We also really have the ambition to do this, for all the reasons I mentioned in the government statement yesterday. You can be sure that the same applies to me personally. I want us to clean this country. It's a matter of basics that you don't just have your government budget in order, but you don't move the mess to the next generation either. Both for me and for Liberals and for everyone in this coalition, from their own political standpoint, we are very motivated to do so. I do want it all to happen a little bit in a way that can still be carried out financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u234	The fossil industry costs billions in subsidies. That doesn't bother this cabinet. At the moment, tax money goes to the most unsustainable forms of energy. Then the Prime Minister still dares to say that we cannot afford to shut down those coal plants. It is a blessing, not only for taxpayers but also for the climate, if we stop coal. This Prime Minister, who was just so kindly laughing at that crying baby, takes, by pushing it forward and leaving it to his successors to actually shut down those coal power stations, not the responsibility that this earth remains more viable for future generations. I think it's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u235	As far as I am concerned, we now come to a rather crucial point in the debate. It's 4:10, so it's okay. It's about the climate bill. I see the intention of the Climate Act in the coalition agreement. There is also a climate law made by five parties here in the Chamber. This law is ready for treatment. The question to the Prime Minister is how he intends to deal with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u236	The coalition agreement contains exactly what we would like to regulate in the Climate Act. It also states that we will discuss with the proposers the various points of view of the coalition, which differ on important points from the ideas in the draft of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, but also from those on which we can find each other. I want to discuss this positively with each other and see if we can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u237	I am very pleased with these words. The outstretched hand we've been talking about for a long time, I really do see it here. I'm glad the Prime Minister wants to talk about this. I would like to make it very specific, because we must hurry as far as I am concerned. The law's ready. As far as I'm concerned, we can treat it as soon as possible. Are we gonna go round the table next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u238	I'm not gonna do that. That's what the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs is going to do, otherwise I won't survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u239	I'll ask the Prime Minister. I like that we're gonna talk about it, but I want a little pace. That's how I know the Prime Minister. He looks left and right all the time. Actually, I want us to be around the table next week. I'm also looking at the Minister of Economic Affairs. We need to get together as soon as possible. We need to make sure that that law gets there as soon as possible and that we agree on those goals. We are very prepared to do so. That is why I have a very simple question. We're working together all the time. Make sure we sit around the table next week to make sure we come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u240	I really can't estimate that right now. I would also like to give Eric Wiebes, also with an IQ of 500, a chance to get his feet under the desk and form an image of it. He has followed this part of the coalition negotiations from a VVD perspective, but less intensively than other parts. So give him a chance to get his feet under his desk. I understand Mr Klaver so well that's how I know him so well that he says: pace. I like that, too. So we're definitely not gonna slow down a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you. I want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u242	I wanted to thank the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u243	That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u244	The tempo's fine. Even if he does have an IQ of 500, let's give the Minister of Economic Affairs some room. But I wouldn't want to exaggerate: not too much. Get on with it and get that Climate Act going fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u245	Gas on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u246	I have to say here that when the negotiations between GroenLinks and the coalition in the process got stuck at the Pompstationsweg in The Hague, at home with Mr Tjeenk Willink, the leader of GroenLinks drove away in a large BMW and walked the leader of the VVD home. So I get the gas on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u247	And I congratulate him on his choice of car. A beautiful car.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u248	We didn't know this, Mr. Clover. Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u249	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u250	Oh, there's a meeting with you and the Minister of EZ on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u251	We do not need to debate the agendas here. I think this is fine. Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u252	Mr President, I have also seen Mr Klaver come in regularly with the baking bike with which he makes a brutal attack on my constituents. A lot of sectors are going to contribute. We have already talked about agriculture, we have talked about transport, we have talked about industry and we have talked about energy generators, but we have also talked about aviation. We have now agreed as a coalition that we will first see what can be done at European level. I think that is also preferable, because that is, of course, a market in Europe which also brings competition. That's what we've seen in previous attempts. Kerosene, tickets and VAT are all opportunities to look at the European dimension, in particular the sometimes very low prices for an important polluting means of transport. I would like to know whether the cabinet already sees the possibility of getting its hands on it in Europe. We have also agreed that we are going to do things differently as the Netherlands, but I think it is very important for Europe to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u253	"Get a move on!" That's actually what you're saying. That man has just been working for a few days and he must have already signed a European treaty. That's not fair, is it? Let's see what the coalition agreement says about that. The print of it is rather small. Let's see. At least we're working hard on it. I'll get back to you in second term. But you're gonna have to speed up a little bit. That's too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u254	I'm not gonna say "gas on it," I'm gonna say "fly with that business." I'd like to know, seriously. It is precisely because these European wheels are going so slowly that we may not be able to hear from the cabinet that I do not need to do so now, even in the second term, what is the basis for support in Europe, which countries are on our side and where perhaps we can put pressure on them through the European Parliament or through friendly parliaments themselves to find a European solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u255	In other words, just an assessment, a state of affairs, of where we stand in that debate and what the expectations and feasibility are and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u257	That is what we are going to do, and that is what we are going to do with the budget. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u258	I suggest you move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u259	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I come now to agriculture and then to the last two issues: the EU and the world, the rest of the world. Agriculture first. I am glad that the beautiful Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food quality has been restored. Nice things were said about it yesterday. It's one of the most innovative sectors in the world. I also said yesterday in the government statement that if you see that the world population is growing from 7 billion to 9 billion and that you want to feed 9 billion in an acceptable way, also in terms of environmental impact, the question is how do you do that and that is looked at in the Netherlands. Not to produce food for 9 billion people, but for how to fix it technically. In trade missions, the most beautiful thing you experience is that you see how much respect and pride they look at that sector and also at the green education, which I say something about. At the same time, the sector is making a very important contribution to our economy, in full width. I think it is a good thing that we bring together entrepreneurship and innovative power there and can do it again in a focused ministry. In particular, there will be a number of hard work in the coming period, on many points. One has to do with pig farming in Brabant. Mr Pechtold said that it would not be possible for you to spend 200 million and then the problem would be moved. I understand this point in itself, but I would like to ask you not to take a final decision on this now and to give the Minister here a chance to shape the whole plan of the warm restructuring of pig farming in Brabant and also to see what that means for the rest of the country. I understand very well what has been said about that, but I would still like to see that space. A question has also been asked about agricultural poison. Is the cabinet going to come up with a ban on agricultural poison? Here's what I'm gonna do. Both at European and national level, we are committed to an integrated approach to plant protection: first prevention, then non-chemical measures and only if there is really no alternative to plant protection measures. The Minister will continue to work with stakeholders on a system approach to sustainable plant protection that focuses on the use of low-risk substances, basic substances and non-chemical measures, while stressing that the assessment of proposals for the approval of substances is mainly based on scientific considerations, on scientific grounds. All active substances shall be assessed for risk to humans, animals and the environment for approval in the European Union and all plant protection products shall also be assessed for those risks for authorisation in a Member State. A product can therefore only be authorised if there are no harmful effects on humans and animals and no unacceptable effects on the environment. Mr President, two final points. The issue of biodiversity. There is great concern in the Netherlands about the general decline in biodiversity over the last century. That is and remains a relevant issue. We see that global pressure has been under for years. You can also see in the Netherlands that the number of species has decreased and habitats have been drastically reduced. If you look at the averages, then at this point that declining trend seems to have stopped. In recent messages from the Planning Office for the Environment you can even see light recovery, but that light recovery then stagnates on parts again. In other words, we're really not there yet. Many species are still threatened because the spatial environmental conditions for their survival are insufficient. Examples of this are the peasant birds. What is good is that the PBL says that the policies put in place, such as the extension of the nature network, are effective. But it is not enough for this moment to fully achieve all the goals. That is why we must continue with this policy. We also do this with an extra boost in the government agreement for nature and water quality. Finally. We've been asked about the 200 million for the Province Fund. As you know, since 2010, nature has been a responsibility of the provinces. Since 1 January 2017, so this year, the legislative change in financial relations has been in force. As a result, the natural decentralisation benefit has been incorporated into the general distribution of the Province Fund. It's quite expendable. This means that the provinces determine what they are spending these resources on, in their responsibility towards their own people as well. This is how the system has been since 1-1 this year. However, the cabinet will also be discussing in the coming period all the tasks that lie ahead, and we want to make programmed agreements in particular. I use that term because it comes from our conversations with IPO and VNG. So not complicated, thick, boring administrative agreements, but programmatic agreements, for example about this part, nature diversity. That's what we're gonna do. Mr President, in response to the various questions on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u260	The Prime Minister says with great certainty that the Netherlands can make an important contribution to the world food problem and that we should therefore, above all, also focus on exports and trade missions. This almost seems to show that the Prime Minister himself has done research showing that the Netherlands is indeed very good at this. Based on what knowledge does he think he can do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u261	I am not an expert, but what I do find out is that if we go out with companies and we open up part of the trade mission for the agricultural or horticultural sector, the hortical or agricultural sector, which is immediately overdrawn. The companies involved in the trade mission in this sector have a variety of contacts in the country they are going to. The Minister for Agriculture will also notice this when she leads trade missions. We are very well-written. That's for a few reasons. If you put your finger on the map, the Netherlands is gone, but under that finger is the second largest agricultural exporter in the world. It has to do with the enormous quality of our education and the fact that it is connected, in a vertical column, with Wageningen, so with the best research facilities we have in the world. It is also looked at from all over the world with some admiration. What I do not want to argue for is that we are going to produce all that food here, but we therefore have the innovative techniques to help other countries meet this high food demand in an environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u262	If there is any admiration, it is mainly among companies about how to produce as much bulk production as possible at the lowest possible cost. So that admiration is basically limited to that sector itself. In fact, stick a feather up the ass and say, "What are we doing right?" The UN rapporteur on the right to food has sounded the alarm clock and said: the future of our food is non-industrial; we must get rid of monoculture, agricultural poison and fertilizer. And what is the Netherlands good at? We are in the ranking of most use of agricultural poison in third place. We use a lot of fertilizer, we only have rai grass and monocultures and we are currently exhausting the earth. So if next time in a debate the Prime Minister dares to say that the Netherlands is contributing to ensuring the right to food, then I think he should first look at independent reports which say that the Netherlands is doing badly and that we should switch to organic farming. Then we have at least a real discussion, rather than reading something and saying, on the basis of trade missions, that great admiration is being harvested. That's all about money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u263	Well, no. Actually, no. That's just not true. I refer to my talks with the President of Tanzania and the major problems that exist there in the field of agriculture. There is a huge task there to feed people in an environmentally friendly way and to develop the agricultural sector in its economic sense. What has been contributed there from a few Dutch HBO institutions but also from the Wageningen research facility has nothing to do with large mass production or megasthals. That has everything to do with using the most modern insights. In your own country, where you always have to deal with elements of the law of inhibiting lead in a successful sector, we can apply the lessons we have learned and are learning in a positive way there again. That's very much appreciated. Let us talk about this with a little more pride. When I hear Mrs Thieme, I think that the environment is not fun at all. It's all so negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u264	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u265	If we in China are trying to get all schoolchildren to Dutch milk while 80% of the Chinese are lactose intolerant and therefore become sick of milk, if we know that milk is about the most environmentally polluting part of our food package, which causes a lot of methane emissions, whatever the government acknowledges in the government agreement, then we are dealing with a totally unethical trade mission. Then we can't be proud of that, can we? Then we are moving problems elsewhere in the world by promoting non-sustainable behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u266	Take China's example. There has indeed at some point been a problem with the nutrition for babies. Of course there are pluses and minuses of milk for babies, but let us be glad that the Dutch industry and a number of large companies were able to help and make that stuff available in China. I think that's just good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u267	I have a more cheerful remark for the Prime Minister. I've been waiting all this time for a response to something I've said in my input. I didn't get it, but I heard him mention innovation in Brabant now. Then I thought: there is also another industry in Brabant that is very innovative. They're working on solar power. They're working on self-driving cars, even on solar power. Those companies ask you only one thing that doesn't cost money, so I think that's an easy commitment: make sure they can experiment a little more and that they don't have to stick to all the rules that are designed for old technologies. Because if they can do that, we can use it as a wonderful export product in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u268	I thought Melanie Schultz, when she was still there, almost made the whole of the Netherlands one large laboratory for the self-driving car, the electric car, but if there's any more need, we're going to look at that. Yeah, we're gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u269	I can assure you, on behalf of the Helmond-Eindhoven-Tilburg region, that a number of rules are still being violated. If they could circumvent it, it could become a wonderful export product for the Netherlands in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u270	What is now developing not only in the field of logistics but also in the field of innovation in Brabant is truly insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u271	The next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u272	Mr. President, Justice. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u273	No, it's okay. Migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u274	Migration, exactly. Europe and migration. First, the European Union. I can now make a whole speech on the importance of the European Union. I see D66 getting excited. Let me just cook it back to a bit of vision. Sneak a piece of vision, stv. Let me cook it back to a few essentials. We have also discussed this in the formation. For a country like the Netherlands, which is open, connected, not an island, that is trading and connected to the whole world, in a world that is unstable, where there is much uncertainty, given the ring of instability around Europe, the unpredictability in America, the rise of Asia and the situation in the Middle East and North Africa, membership of organisations is primarily crucial from a security point of view. Think of NATO, the United Nations and, of course, the European Union. The fact that you are embedded in such cooperation offers security to the Netherlands and other countries, other Member States of the European Union. That's one reason. There is also, of course, a great economic interest, because we know that we in the Netherlands depend on the fact that we trade with the whole world and 70% of that trade is within the European Union. The currency, the euro, has also brought us a great deal of stability in recent years. The third point is the community of values. Of course you won't get young people on the couch with the thought of no wieder Krieg. They will say: that was before, that is history. But it's true. The fact that we have managed to have peace in this part of the world since 1945, that France and Germany are no longer fighting each other, that we are working together from a common set of values, I find of enormous significance. That is of an improbable historical importance. It is therefore also important that we pay attention within the European Union to countries such as Hungary and Poland. Fourthly, there are a number of things, apart from the economy, that we cannot solve ourselves. A very important point concerns the surveillance of external borders and migration. We should do that together. We have seen this with the agreements we have made with Turkey. This type of agreement is almost non-existent between bilateral countries. Then the Netherlands is simply too small, and for that we need this cooperation within the European Union. You gonna be okay? No, we must stick together to the commitments made, for example on compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. I am concerned about the shift from a Community method to an increasingly intergovernmental approach to European issues. This is at the expense of the medium-sized and smaller Member States. We will therefore always make a plea for a strong European Commission. Europe's simplification agenda is a good one. Frans Timmermans is doing a very good job, but this should be continued in the next five years. As far as European monetary union is concerned, there is, of course, a basic problem which is not simply soluble, and that is the underlying distrust between North and South. The South believes that the North says that the South should reform et cetera, but that the North then reaps the benefits from it. But the North says: the South does not reform, and if the South does not reform, we are not going to solve it with all instruments, such as a shock absorption fund and you name it. That basic distrust can only be removed if everyone does what they have to do, and that starts with complying with the rules, so that the South will do everything in its power to deliver on the basic promise of the euro, namely to converge towards a higher level of economic prosperity by reforming it and by making the necessary adjustments to the economy. If you can deliver that basic promise, I am talking in particular about France, where much is happening now, and about Italy, which seems to have taken the right course, but still very slowly, we are also able to bring that stability together. If this happens, shock absorption is no longer necessary, because if there is economic headwind, it will affect the whole and not one or two countries more than other countries, as all countries will have sufficient underlying stability to cope with these shocks. In other words, leaving the European Union would kill our country. We are now seeing with the Brexit that that country has ended up in a monetary, economic and constitutional crisis that is unprecedented. These consequences will only get worse in the coming years. I cannot therefore encourage the British to return to that path of the Brexit. Fortunately, you can also see in the Netherlands that, partly because of the Brexit, support for the European Union has increased enormously. People understand why we're a part of that. I'll fight anyone who wants to get out with all the arguments. Again, that does not alter the fact that I and our cabinet do not like a lot of things in Europe. We are part of that and we will therefore have to work very hard to ensure that we improve what is not good about Europe. I think I have answered almost all the questions that have been asked. Perhaps one more question before I come to Mr Asscher, which is about more or less Europe. You can't say that. I would be in favour of Europe being less in all those areas where Frans Timmermans is working on simplification and simplification agendas. But we urgently need more Europe in the areas of the Services Directive, the internal market for digital services, the Capital Union and the Energy Union. There are a lot of jobs involved, including in the Netherlands. If you do all this twice the Dutch economy on top of the European economy, 1.2 billion more, 4 million more jobs, so you need more, but in many other ways less. It is not easy to translate into more or less Europe. I always remind everyone that in the Treaty of Lisbon there is also the retirement I am opposed to. So we have the ultimate instrument of sovereignty again since Lisbon, but I would not like to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u275	I very much agree with the Prime Minister's assessment of the Brexit. In fact, I fear that the British people have been set up and have now to pay a terrible price for that decision, whereas political crooks would want the same thing here. That does not relieve us of the duty to look at the causes of the Brexit. They also lie in an experienced injustice in Europe: unfair competition in the labour market, the feeling that there is no grip, no control, dishonesty in whom there is and who does not pay taxes. Where I am pleased to welcome the government agreement on equal pay for equal work as a principle, I would like to invite the Prime Minister to express the ambition, with the Minister for Social Affairs, to take the next step in this. That's that you can't get an unfair advantage with premium shopping again, allowing your employees to compete against each other on the basis of costs. The second proposal that I would like to make to him concerns the causes of the discontent that led to Brexit but also to the discontent here in the Netherlands, namely to take the initiative to bring the race to the bottom. We have heard this morning that the Prime Minister is against it in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u276	Can I first congratulate Mr Asscher on the fact that the project he has been working on for years as Minister of Social Affairs, namely equal pay for equal work in equal conditions, succeeded last Monday? That is a wonderful conclusion to his ministry. I can't see the questions he's asking right now. I haven't been able to prepare it either. A question is about premium shopping and there is a fairly general question about the race to the bottom, which I think I agree with in the main. Perhaps I can suggest that we continue to work on this in later debates. I didn't think it was in his first term yesterday either. So I haven't been able to prepare for it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u277	The Prime Minister knows that a next step is needed. Without getting into technology, the next question. I know he's personally committed to the first step. I would like to hear from him in second term whether he is prepared to take the follow-up step together with the Minister for Social Affairs. It is important to use the credit we have in Europe for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u278	I'm going to try to get as far as possible with a second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u279	Please proceed to a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u280	I have one more theme and one more question. That was about the issue of non-refoulement. That was a very interruptive debate yesterday. I can say a lot about that, but I can also try to be brief. Maybe it's okay to paint a picture of how it works. First of all, I think we all agree that drownings need to be rescued at sea. They must then be taken to the nearest port. That could be Italy, but it could also be the African side. Then you'll get into the details. You have to be very precise: the difference between the coastguards of the North African countries and merchant ships on the one hand and European organisations on the other. For example, in the case of rescue operations carried out by Egyptian, Libyan, Tunisian and Turkish coastguards in their territorial waters or. search and rescue zones are brought to ports in these countries. This also applies to merchant ships in these waters. The law of the sea applies. This means that ports must be safe and migrants must not be subjected to inhumane treatment there. The European Navy and Coast Guard vessels, therefore, are the other side of the ship, which, among other things, operate in the framework of the European Union mission Sophia and also of the Frontex mission Poseidon and Triton, do not now bring drownings to African ports. This could change in the future if the North African countries want to cooperate and if migrants are safe and they are not sent back to countries of origin, where they fear persecution and can apply for asylum with a competent authority. That could also be the UNHCR. The safe harbour will then be located in a third country considered safe by the European Union. Now I come to the coalition agreement, because up to now I have given more of the state of affairs internationally. The government agreement provides the basis for government policy to regulate the uncontrolled flow of migration. We have a strong ambition to break the model of pay for smugglers that leads to drowning. This is what we want to achieve by concluding agreements with safe third countries which are materially complying with the Refugee Convention. A procedure is possible, for example in the host country or in the UNHCR. It will then be assessed whether access to safe care in the region is available. Once admitted to safe reception in the region, it is possible to be eligible for resettlement. Reception in the region is always linked to largesse in relation to resettlement or resettlement programmes. That is actually also the main line of the nature of the agreements we have made between the European Union and Turkey. That's just for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u281	I do indeed have a question about sending people back to North Africa without being in Europe. The central question is: how do you determine individually that someone is safe where we send him or her? To give an example: in Algeria and Egypt, people who are homosexual must fear being locked up. In what way is it then assessed individually whether this danger exists and whether this person can be returned to one of these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u282	That is also why we want to make agreements with countries similar to Turkey, which also meet the requirements of the agreements made with Turkey. In those countries, the basic safety conditions must be met. The European Union must also regard them as a safe third country. Mr Klaver asked yesterday in detail exactly what would happen on board such a ship. That's all going to have to be part of the type of arrangement you make. I can't see that right now. That also depends very much on the very specific arrangements you are going to make in specific situations. But the aim is to get rid of a model in which it is attractive to board a life-threatening boat, to be taken over by a European ship and to be sure that you will always arrive in a port on the European side. I want to get rid of this automatism, but that's gonna be really complicated. That will have to be done step by step, and it will have to be surrounded by all guarantees. There is no question of rushing into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u283	The point is that you cannot make collective agreements with countries and there will always have to be an individual test. That's what you see in Turkey. You have made an appointment with Turkey, but it is still necessary to consider whether this person can be safely returned to that country per individual, per refugee. That is why I asked Mr Rutte this question. He says: we no longer want people to go to Europe. That is why this is more than a detail. If you do not want people to set foot on European soil, where and when are you going to test whether these people can safely be returned to North Africa? That's not clear to me. Either it is a dead letter or it is a dead letter in the government agreement or the government agreement will soon not respect the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u284	No, it's not true. It depends on how you're going to shape this in practice. Take the appointments with Turkey. People are coming to Greece. The idea behind the agreements with Turkey is that there will be a brief test to establish that someone is covered by those agreements, that they will be able to obtain a further safe reception and that the asylum procedure will be carried out there. That is the form we have chosen. That is also exactly what I think it ended up getting stuck between GroenLinks and the parties that formed at the time, because Mr Klaver said: I think that this type of agreement is a bridge too far. That is his right, but these are agreements within all international rules. Then you can see if it's possible to make agreements with African countries to prevent you from bringing people to Europe first, where you'll take that simple test before they go to a safe African country. I don't know if that's gonna work. That's not the essence either. The essence is that we want to try to make agreements similar to Turkey with African countries, so that the further asylum procedure can be followed and reception can take place there. But that does include the fact that you do want to work with some scope on programmes to relieve the pressure on those camps if it becomes too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u285	I am not asking about the situation and the agreements with Turkey. I am asking about the current situation. Part of it is that people really don't come to Europe anymore. They're picked up from the water and taken directly to North Africa. The question then is whether all these people are indeed given an individual test to determine whether the country to which they are returned is safe. The central question is: do all these people get an individual test to see if it's safe for them to be sent back to a country in North Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u286	Then it doesn't really matter whether that happens on board a ship or on an Italian island?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u287	Let me go into the reason why I am so curious about this, why it really matters and why I made a little fun of it yesterday. How do you see that exactly for you on a ship like this when you've just pulled people out of the water who are still in total panic? How is that supposed to happen? Is there a small tribunal there that's going to test this and have all kinds of interviews? Are we gonna ask the captain? These are much more than details; this is the core of how we deal with refugees. This is at the heart of how we deal with the closure of Europe's borders, as we promise to the Dutch people. If you are really serious about keeping the Refugee Convention in place, then an individual test is necessary. This will mean that people will always have to go to Europe first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u288	But that was not at the heart of the discussion we had at the Catshuis. It was about whether GroenLinks could live with us making agreements, as we have with Turkey, with other countries in Africa. I'd like to sort that out anyway, because otherwise it's gonna get mixed up. You're trying to get away from that handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u289	I'm not trying to get away from anything. I'm just trying to make sure you answer questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u290	I was trying to do that, but first we're gonna make it a little more painful. After all, it's still early. It didn't get stuck in the Catshuis on the question of whether the assessment would take place on board the ship or on an Italian island. It got stuck on the basis of the question whether the following is possible: if you have agreements with a safe third country, can you take the test of "hey, you're actually covered by that type of appointment; you go back immediately and the further procedure takes place there"? GroenLinks said: no, that asylum procedure must always be able to take place fully in Europe. Well, that's a respectable point of view. No one in Europe thinks so. Even the most left-wing government in Europe, Portugal, does not think so. There are no left-wing governments, Mr Roemer, but even those who do not want to do so. Mr Roemer now thinks: my name is mentioned, what is it about? I'll catch you up in a minute, Mr. Roemer!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u291	But again, even the government doesn't want that, he's so fine with it. Then yesterday the debate was narrowed to the question: how do you deal with drownings on ships? In fact, it is already on the agenda. I had that checked out. I heard that little debate and I didn't have it exactly ready, but it works like this. Depending on the place where ships take drownings on board, which can be within or outside the territorial waters of a coastal State, the nature of the ship and the applicable law determine how it goes on. This may lead to different situations. Then I'll get to the details. In all cases, the master shall consult relevant organisations and authorities, in particular those of the eligible coastal State. In the coastal state of Italy it is the Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre in Rome. Materially, this assessment should also consider the risk of non-refoulement and the possibility of submitting an asylum application. In other words, depending on the precise situation of these ships and where they come from, they are dealt with differently. That is the current practice. What does that mean? If you have agreements with African countries in a moment, in many cases people will still return from Italy immediately, I think. Or from Malta or Spain, which depends on exactly where they arrive. But I would like to maintain the ambition that it is pleasant to go one step further and see if it is possible for the ship to return directly to Africa without having to take that marginal test on an Italian island. Whether and, if so, exactly how that will work, I cannot yet estimate, but that is not the essence of the cabinet plan. That essence is that you do not allow someone who has been picked up from the sea to go through the entire procedure in Italy, but that those who can go through the full procedure in the country in Africa with which you have an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u292	Last comment on this point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u293	I am not going back to the negotiating table, how we talked about it and what subjects have been reviewed there. I am referring to a very precise sentence in the coalition agreement, or actually two sentences. Those sentences point out that people who are picked up at sea can be sent directly back to North Africa. Why is that so important? Well, because the whole paragraph on migration is full of all kinds of guarantees of international law. For example, the right to non-refoulement must be respected. But when I ask the Prime Minister, I hear that it would be his ambition not to allow anyone to come to Europe, but actually to send everyone directly back to Africa. Just now he said it himself: there is now a marginal test; I prefer that it is not there. Mr Baudet says'very good' outside the microphone. I understand he thinks so, but I don't think so. In that case, there can be no respect for non-refoulement. In that case, there can be no question of respecting the Refugee Convention. With that, those wonderful phrases in the coalition agreement are not worth anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u294	That's not true. I didn't say it like that. Now it is said again that I have said that I want everyone back and that I do not even want the marginal test. I don't think I said that, but at least I'm going to explain to you what we want. This is what we are doing with the Turkey agreements. A marginal test is now taking place on the Greek island. It's said, "Hey, that's interesting; you're from Syria. We have made agreements with Turkey about people from Syria. They can be received there and the procedure will be continued there." That's one. Next, the question is whether, on the basis of the law of the sea, you should automatically bring drownings captured by European ships to Italy/Europe. This is not necessary on the basis of the law of the sea. They may also be taken to other North African ports, provided that all guarantees are met. What's imaginable? The substance of the matter is not whether the case is settled on the ship or in Italy. At the heart of the matter is that people can continue to be treated there after a marginal test under the protection of the agreements with an African country. We do believe that it should be possible, from the existing maritime law, if you have made the agreement with those countries, to have that marginal test take place on board the ship, with all the guarantees that go with it. We do not want this because we no longer accept asylum seekers here. As the number of asylum seekers falls directly, you will see that the Netherlands is going to participate in resettlement programmes with a lot of largesse. We do not have the goal of going to an influx of zero at all. We just want to keep doing our fair share. But you get to break through the business model of those smugglers. What I never understood about GroenLinks is why she's so close to all those boat smugglers. I don't get it. Then why are they encouraging... this is entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u295	No, this isn't entrapment. Now you're out of line. I would very much appreciate it if Mr Rutte would take back the words 'you are friends with those boat smugglers'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u296	I didn't say that. I said I don't understand why you don't want to deal with this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u297	No, no, no, you didn't say that. What am I supposed to do with the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u298	Sorry, maybe I've been a little too hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u299	Apology accepted. I'm glad you said that. Then we can go back to the contents, Mr. Rutte. The point is, you are now telling us very clearly that you ultimately want a marginal test on ships. So people are going to be rescued from the sea and then you are going to ask questions on those boats to the people who have just been rescued from the water to see if they are safe. Let me give you an example, that of gays, to make it concrete. Then you go on a ship and ask what is someone's sexual preference to see if someone can be sent back to Algeria or Egypt. How do you guarantee that people won't be sent back to a place where they don't have to be in danger? In the end, that's the point. You'll get past that, Mr. Rutte. There are wonderful words in the government agreement on respect for non-refoulement and the Refugee Convention, but this is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u300	I will certainly go too far when I say that GroenLinks or Mr Klaver is the friend of those boat smugglers. I do not mean that at all; I do not want to say that at all. But the point I wanted to make is that I obviously did a little clumsy; sorry for that is that I do not understand that Mr Klaver does not want to cooperate to break that business model of those boat smugglers. I honestly don't understand. At the moment when you are able to take away the reason for crossing over with due regard for all international agreements and all due diligence, as we do with Turkey, you must do so. There's a difference. Turkey-Greece is a small crossing. So there it quickly succeeded to stop those crossings. But that trip across the Mediterranean is a much longer crossing, with many more dangers. For that it is also much more complicated to cut it off immediately. So we must try to make agreements with the African countries, as we did with Turkey. And I therefore think it is acceptable to see whether, with due regard for all the conditions and all the due diligence requirements, you can ensure that people do not end up arriving in Europe. Otherwise, you will encourage new people to board those ships. Not that you want to, but I don't understand why you don't want to support a completely logical solution to get the problem under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u301	No, Mr. Clover. No way. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u302	I am shocked by the Prime Minister's statements on the Brexit. He says that the country, because it is leaving the European Union, has fallen into an economic and constitutional crisis. Not only do I find it incredibly unwise to insult our very important trading partner in this way, but in fact it is complete bullshit. A few digits. Since the vote on the Brexit, wages have increased by 2.1%, and exports have increased by 11.4%. Entrepreneurs' confidence in the economy has increased by 16%. Product orders have reached their highest point since 1988. The Deutsche Bank has just announced that it will remain in the City for another 25 years, and unemployment is at 4.4% the lowest in 40 years. You may be able to contrast other figures there and say that other things have gone a little less well, but the idea that the economy has fallen into free fall is just bullshit. And constitutionally, Britain has opted for its own democracy. There has been a referendum and the government has listened to it. You should take an example instead of talking about it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u303	Let's talk about the economic figures. England currently has the highest inflation and lowest economic growth in the whole of the European Union. The prospects for the coming years are extremely bleak, according to the Governor of the Bank of England, Mr Carney. This weekend it has been predicted that hundreds of thousands of jobs will leave the City for the European mainland, and that is only about the banking sector in London, the cork under the British economy. We all know that London is 25% of the British economy and the leverage to the economy of the whole of the UK, simply because the manufacturing industry, apart from the car industry in England, has been in severe weather over the past few years, as well as Brexit. Then constitutionally. Northern Ireland. The fact that there is a need for a border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is an inevitable blur at the moment and also has far-reaching risks to stability in Northern Ireland and the peace process. So that's constitutional. And monetary. As I said, the pound is at a very low level. This was the reason why exports increased somewhat at the beginning, simply because of the low pound, but this has a significant impact in the longer term, for example on the price increases that are currently taking place in the United Kingdom. The price increases in the food trade, the Tesco's and the other large supermarket chains, are enormous. My view is indeed that England or Britain has made an unlikely wrong decision. They are now leaving the European Union. This means that they are a medium-sized economy, somewhere in the middle of the Atlantic. It's not America, it's not Europe. They are too small to go on independently with this high level of prosperity. Mr Baudet and others who are in favour of following this disastrous road as the Netherlands are really putting themselves completely out of reality, but also completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u304	That is not clear from any fact. I have just mentioned all this unemployment which is now lower in Britain than in the last 40 years: 4.4%. You mentioned the car industry, but you can also mention all kinds of other industries in which there is an enormous growth. You can also look at other countries that are not in the EU; not Britain but Norway or Switzerland. They are doing excellently, so the whole argument that we could not survive outside the European Union, because we are small, and the United States and Europe are big, simply does not stand up. I don't think it's right for the Prime Minister to talk about it this way. That is really inappropriate to our trading partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u305	Well, facts need to be named, especially among friends, with which I do not mean Mr Baudet, but the United Kingdom. I have to say that the most important role we have as a government is twofold, namely security and jobs. An exit from the United Kingdom has a major impact on the security structure and on the economy. For a small country like the Netherlands, these effects would be much greater, because of the international connectivity of our economy. As a small country, this embedding in a strong European Union is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u306	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u307	Then I will fight to the end that we are not going to take that wrong step. Those who are willing to do so take an irresponsible risk with the national interest; really an irresponsible risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u308	It's just the other way around. It is only when we are from the European Union that we can become attractive to the rest of the world. The rest of the world will have much greater economic growth over the coming decades than the countries of the European Union. All projections show that. That's where we need to be; we need to trade with that. The European Union is stopping us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u309	Mr Buma, you are looking at Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u310	Yeah, well, he's so ready for the next interruption that I'd like to take over, but just for today, I'll tell the Prime Minister. It is good for Mr Baudet to note that for the first time in ten years the Bank of England has raised interest rates by a quarter. Economically, things are not going so well, but it has to be because, apart from your 2.1% increase in wages, there is an inflation rate of 3%, so it is indeed not going well. My question to the Prime Minister is, because that is the interruption of this moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u311	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u312	My question to the Prime Minister is: we are having a discussion in Europe on how to deal with this Brexit...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u313	Mr. Buma,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u314	I'm allowed to do an interruption, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u315	...Mr. Baudet wasn't ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u316	I'd like to get into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u317	You gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u318	Yes, you looked so invitingly at me that I thought you might want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u319	No, I just wanted the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u320	Maybe the chairman thought you wanted to respond to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u321	I will continue with my interruption, because you gave me the floor and I could not suspect that I should not use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u322	Do you like it, Mr Baudet? When you're ready...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u323	One thing. If it were to go so badly with the economy, how is it possible that the confidence of entrepreneurs in the economy has increased by 16% since the vote for Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u324	At the moment, economic growth in England is the lowest in the European Union. I told you. Business and profit expectations are adjusted downwards over a broad front. So let's have those polls again, would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u325	As with the referendum, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u326	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u327	Thank you. Then I'm going to fill in the floor. We are faced with a very big choice and that is because of the Brexit. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with me that the Netherlands in particular should do this together with the other European partners. You sometimes hear that the Netherlands should try to do it separately. Does he want to make an effort to ensure that the Dutch taxpayer does not pay the bill in the end? For England now says: this is free or cheap; we do not pay. The result is that Europe has to pay for it. My request to the Prime Minister is therefore to do this together with the other countries and to say, frankly, to the British too, that this costs money. I am not saying that to bully, but because I do not want the taxpayer here in the Netherlands to pay. Let us be honest: that is the risk if we do the things Mr Baudet wants. He says that all this can be done and that it does not cost so much, but then the Dutch taxpayer pays. And I don't want to. This interruption is addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u328	I agree. It is very important that we keep the unit below 27. We are now in the first phase, in which we are trying to agree on borders, on citizens' rights and on the account. The latter is particularly complex at the moment. As insufficient progress has been made, it has not been possible to identify sufficient progress at the last European Council. We hope to get on with this in December. That is the last point that really affects two things. The first is the unity of those 27; the first is Mr Buma's point. The second is that the bill is going to be where it should be, namely the one who leaves. So we're working really hard on that, at 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u330	Finally, I come to 'the rest of the world'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u331	But then it's final.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u332	I'm gonna finish the rest of the world, too. First of all, I would like to say something here. Yesterday there was talk about doctors, about nurses and about people in the police force. Even the welder has passed. Now that we come to the issue of defence and foreign policy, I would also like to mention our military, our military, who provide security and stability here in the Netherlands and abroad. It was the Secretary of Defense who said that yesterday. I want to do that, because they have a right to sound here too. It concerns more than 40,000 men and women who are doing extremely important work for our country, including in mission areas and also in the Netherlands. I'd like to have said that here. A question has been asked about international stability: what can the Netherlands contribute to this? We are contributing to this by helping the world, but certainly also in the context of instability around Europe, diplomatically and, if necessary, militaryly. That is crucial, because if we do not, the Netherlands would not take its responsibility to promote stability. Fortunately, we see positive effects of this. A question has been asked about the nuclear weapons treaty. In the end, we could not sign that because the present treaty is incompatible with our NATO membership and goes against our own interests. We are members of NATO, on which we depend for national security. It is impossible to sign this treaty. We would then be acting in violation of NATO. We have also been asked why we do not stop spending on development cooperation. Can I just mention the discussion we have just had about migration, including economic migration, and about stability around Europe? So, apart from the fact that I think that as a rich country, you should be very concerned about how things are going in other parts of the world, which is also part of civilisation, plays a role in contributing to other parts of the world where things are less good, even more direct, perhaps, for our security, for controlling migratory flows. The project SheDecides, an initiative of my former colleague Lilianne Ploumen, whom I warmly welcome, is continued by this cabinet. Finally, two questions. The issue of tax avoidance has been asked. There is a great deal of attention to this in the coalition agreement. As a cabinet, we want to tackle tax avoidance, including the introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties. That was discussed earlier today. We will also continue to include anti-abuse provisions in international tax treaties to prevent abuse of tax treaties through letterbox companies. The Ministry of Finance has now reached an agreement with 11 of the 23 developing countries with which the Netherlands has a treaty. Furthermore, we are committed to the establishment of better international standards for tax legislation. We support developing countries in their tax collection with technical assistance. In 2015, the Financialing for Development conference in Addis Ababa was organised, partly on the Dutch initiative. With this bilateral and sometimes multilateral support, extra tax money is collected from multinationals in poor countries, such as in the programme of Tax Inspectors without Borders, which we support. That is an on-the-job training of tax officials in audits in developing countries. This has already led to more than a quarter of a billion additional tax revenue, in dollars. We've been asked about UNESCO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u333	Is that your last remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u334	Yes, that's the last question, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr van der Staaij that the UNESCO forum is regularly being abused by countries for political purposes and discussions that do not belong there. I think it is right to distinguish between the Member States that are doing this and the UN UNESCO itself. Following discussions on Jerusalem, the Director-General of UNESCO called on the Member States to promote cultural and religious coexistence and not to introduce political contradictions within UNESCO, as this would harm the implementation of the UNESCO mission. The cabinet agrees and therefore always stresses this message in talks with the Palestinian Authority. UNESCO must not be abused for political purposes and be able to focus on its core tasks. Breder has been asked about our line on the Middle East Peace Process. We are continuing the work of the previous Cabinets on this point. We are trying to make a positive contribution by keeping in close contact with both the Israelis and the Palestinians. We have cooperation fora with both of them. The personal ties with the political leaders on both sides are extremely good, I might add. The way in which the Netherlands tries to find practical solutions, for example in the economic field and in other practical problems between both sides of the Middle East conflict, is greatly appreciated. That is because, in recent years, we have managed not to have a proxy fight here about whether you are for Israel or for the Palestinians, but to look very pragmatically at this dossier and ask: can we, as a small country, make a positive contribution to resolving this conflict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u335	The Prime Minister's gonna rage all over the world in three minutes. Shame! But I will spare him, although almost every subject is subject to discussion. I would like to make one more point explicit: my question on the signing of the nuclear weapons agreement. Why am I asking? Because the cabinet is in a split. The coalition agreement quite rightly states that the cabinet is aiming for a nuclear-free world. So our commitment, as well as that of this cabinet, is always to do so. In one sentence, the Prime Minister now calls for it to be incompatible with NATO's nuclear weapons tasks. I dare at least doubt that, because NATO cannot oblige individual countries to do it anyway, but there are more countries which, now being discussed within NATO, are going to investigate further whether individual countries could actually do it. So I have the next question, and if I do not get a satisfactory answer, I will table a motion in these terms. Can we consider whether wider research can be carried out, as Italy and other countries do, on whether individual countries within NATO can still sign this nuclear weapons agreement so that it can be used as a means in the fight for a nuclear-free world in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u336	In the negotiations on the nuclear weapons ban, we have been threatening the Sjoerdsma motion's compass. We have therefore also taken an active part in these negotiations, but in the end we have come to the conclusion that the outcome of the negotiations could not be signed by the Netherlands. As I said, this has to do with incompatibility with NATO membership. Among other things, the signing of the Convention risks undermining the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) or other instruments such as the Nuclear Stop-offs Treaty (NPT) and being insufficiently verifiable. And that is the case here. In addition, it is our estimate that there is no chance that the nuclear weapons ban will certainly have any effect in the short term, simply because it is not verifiable and no nuclear-owned country supports the treaty. That is why we have said that we must focus on continuing to work towards the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. Global Zero, that's what we're committed to as a Dutch government. That's what the coalition agreement says. But as long as nuclear weapons exist, proliferation and the possible deployment of these weapons pose a risk to international and Dutch security and stability. We also sent a letter of inquiry, in which we explained it exactly. We have participated, we have tried to implement this motion as well as possible, but in the end we have found that it is no longer compatible with NATO membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u337	I know that letter. It is to be commended that the Netherlands was part of these negotiations. But the important thing is that we now have more and more instability in the world. I call North Korea, Iran and Trump across the lake. That is an additional reason to make sure that we go to a nuclear-free world together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u338	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u339	So that's what we're sharing. I am certainly not convinced that it is incompatible, because it fits within NATO that individual countries can say that they are signing that treaty in support of it. Italy is now also launching a study to see if these possibilities exist. At the very least, I had hoped that the Netherlands would not have accepted the pressure within NATO not to do so, but would continue to look for opportunities to do so. But I shall come with a motion to that effect. We do say that we want to go to a nuclear-free world, but we don't put our fists on the table, we don't say "boys, we're really going to investigate how we're going to do that and how the Netherlands can lead the way." I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u340	Finally, I fear that I will not raise a hand on that motion. We must avoid supporting a treaty that ultimately entails the risk of undermining the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty or the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. That would really be very damaging, including for the stability of the world. So yes, we agree: the nuclear weapons are out of the world. But then out of the world! In view of the state of the negotiations, there is now a risk of saying: what a sweet, beautiful objective, and that is what we must do. There is a complete absence of verification. By signing a signature you contribute and give a further credibility to a treaty that, in that absence of verifiable on those important parts of the NPV and the CTBT, can lead to a weakening and undermining of it. That is not in the interests of international security. So I would really like to appeal to Mr Roemer to reconsider that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u341	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u342	Those are assumptions that are far from convincing. That is why I am not asking for it to be signed now, but I am asking for a further investigation. Italy, for example, is going to do the same. I'm asking for an investigation to find those possibilities. In fact, it is meaningless for us to say here that we want to move towards a nuclear-free world while, in the meantime, we are ignoring the first option. In fact, we don't even want to do any more research on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u343	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. There's a need for suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u344	We will continue with the debate on the declaration of government. We have arrived at the second term of office. Speaking time is one third of the first-term speaking time. Of course, that speaking time does not have to be used entirely. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u345	Madam President. The planet of Rutte, as I said yesterday in my first term, after two days of debate, not much closer to the common man and woman, has come to our globe. My key point in my first term was that we are losing our country, that we are giving away the Netherlands, that Prime Minister Rutte in various ways, as Prime Minister in different Cabinets, certainly destroyed our country in the last two years. I do not understand that he does not see what so many ordinary Dutch people see, that he wants to be blind to that. Mr. Chairman. Let me mention a few examples in my second term. Go here in The Hague or Rotterdam or anywhere else in the Netherlands to any market. You will often find yourself in another country, between headscarves, with only Turkish and Moroccan language. Take the tram, for example from Schiedam to Rotterdam. Take that tram. Do it at this time of day. What is it? 5:30. I think you'll think you're abroad and that you're about the only Dutch person on that tram. Walk through the center at any time as a woman. Maybe you're just in the wrong neighborhood, but it happens all the time here on shopping nights in town. You're gonna get called "cancer whore" just because you can. Or they say, "I'm fucking your mother." I know it's all pronounced for disgusting lyrics. That is the Netherlands, Madam President. Why don't you go to a mall in an average city on a Saturday? I got a message today from a family that doesn't do that anymore because groups of Moroccans are standing in front of a mall that only honks, screams and sizzles. People don't dare go there with their kids anymore. Look at The Hague I just mentioned it in my first term where not so long ago hundreds of women with headscarves demonstrated in two different places. They went with flags "Allahoe akbar" yelling through our streets. Look at what happened yesterday and today in my own Venlo, in the district of Blerick, in a district where hundreds of people live, especially people of Turkish origin, but also Syrians. They created their own enclave in Blerick and Venlo. Because there has been a murder, which is, of course, terrible, they have taken the right into their own hands. With sticks, they tried to hit the police. That's the Netherlands today! That's what we're going through! People have had enough of that! Is that a temporary thing? Or is that something that goes on? I said it in my first term, Madam President. In large cities alone, almost half of the population is under 25 years of non-Western descent. Those are the adults of the next 10, 20 years. If this is happening now, what is it not to mean for our future? And Prime Minister Rutte does nothing. Prime Minister Rutte laughs everything away. Prime Minister Rutte lies everything away. And in the meantime, the boundaries open, the lucky seekers come in massively and they're being raided massively. That is what is happening, Madam President. The leader of D66, of the party and of the group, Mr Pechtold, was here yesterday and proud to say that newcomers are being relieved, that they should literally not get into trouble. How many Dutch people would like them to be taken care of, they would get a free rental house, the rent would be paid and then the health insurance premium would be paid? Worried! Do you think it's weird that they're going this way on a massive scale? Do you think it's weird that we're losing our country? What kind of madness is this happening in our country? So what we need, Madam President, is leadership. We need leadership in this country of people who take our country back. One or more leaders who make sure that the Netherlands is ours again and that we become the boss again, and not a loser like Prime Minister Rutte who is in charge. That's what we have to do. Islam is the big problem. In fact, the same applies in the socio-economic field. On this point too, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mr Rutte, is now unfortunately again for a few years. Totally detached from reality! The people at home who watch television have been confronted for years with one tax increase after another. With one rent increase after another. With one own risk increase and premium increase after another. They're getting a percent. And even the left is cheering and only talking about the 400,000 who haven't gotten anything. But what's a percent if you're completely stripped first and if you can't afford your own medicine and the hospital anymore? If you can't pay your energy bill anymore, what's a percent? Mr Rutte did not give €1,000, which he had promised, but in all his unreliability he took away €1,000 from those people. And now he's giving back a tenner. He expects the Netherlands to be applauded, but we are not cheered by political liars. We are not in favour of this. It is terrible, Madam President, that this is happening now. What's to be done? That money has to go back to the citizens. That is also possible, as long as you make choices and don't give all the money to abroad, to Africa, to mass immigration and to what I know. Let me therefore begin by tabling a number of motions in the socio-economic field. The first is about a choice that has helped people, namely to stop development aid. The money goes to corrupt countries. It's carrying water to the sea. There's no one less coming to Europe because you're giving that money. Those are all the prime minister's fairy tales. It's about us spending that money here. It's 4 billion a year. In fact, there's more than a billion more. My proposal is to delete that and use that money to reduce the age of AOW back to 65 years. It's structurally about the same amount. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop developing aid and use this money to reduce the AOW age to 65 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u346	The second thing I would like, of course, is that we are not those foreign investors who have been sufficiently involved in the last few days with dividends and VPB rates. We must use that money to help the people in the country. Not the big companies, but just the normal people in the country, by leaving the mortgage interest deduction alone, by maintaining the Hills Act and by leaving VAT untouched. This, too, is about the same amount of money. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce the Vpb rates and not to abolish the dividend tax for foreign investors, but to use that money to keep the mortgage interest rate deduction, the Hills Act, and VAT unaffected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u347	Then there's money in the budget. It is true that some of Rutte III already uses the surplus. The percentage varies a little bit per year, but in 2021, again, hopefully the cabinet will fall much faster than half a percent of GDP in surplus, i.e. more than EUR 4 billion. That's money, not from Prime Minister Rutte, but from the taxpayer. It's 4 billion overpaid by the Dutch taxpayer. Give me that money back. That's money for people. That's really helpful for them. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to return the budget surplus of 0.5% of EUR 4.2 billion to the Dutch by significantly reducing rents and investing heavily in police and defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u348	Billions can be added, both for the people at home and for our security, police and defense. Extra money! Mr. Chairman. Maybe the most important thing I said was that it's the heart of my story. It's that we stop pampering half of Africa and close the borders. Spend that money on care. I'd rather give that money to our elders than to all those lucky seekers out there. And why don't we send all those Syrians back? All those Syrians. There are now 80,000 Syrians in the Netherlands, of whom 70,000 will receive a permanent residence permit within two years. In the region itself tens of thousands of people have returned in recent months to celebrate the Sugar Festival, from Lebanon, from Jordan, from Turkey. If you can go back and celebrate, you can go back and live there. Mr President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the borders for all asylum seekers and all immigrants from Islamic countries;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw all temporary residence permits of Syrians in the Netherlands and to use the money released by these measures to eliminate their own risk and reduce the care premium,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u349	Mr. Chairman. That leaves you with money. Those are the choices that the Netherlands is waiting for. Those are the choices. That's not a percentage of purchasing power, after you've been plundered for five years. That's a full pocket for the wallet by making choices that the Dutchman needs and not half of abroad. Then there are the motions of mistrust. I have two, one over two rulers for having a double nationality. I have given Mr Grapperhaus the honour of a separate motion. I'm sure he appreciates that. First, the motion on the Secretary of State and the Minister of the Interior. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u350	I am not going to explain it all, Madam President. I look at my time and I've done it in interruptions enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u351	Madam President, I'm finishing up. Today is 2 November 2017 and today 13 years ago, Theo van Gogh was murdered in Amsterdam, a murder by an Islamic terrorist, Mohammed Bouyeri. Theo van Gogh has paid the highest price for criticizing Islam. Whatever you think, it doesn't belong in our country. I think that we can only honor Theo van Gogh in one way, and that is by continuing our criticism of Islam, even if you disagree. I also hope that everyone here at least shares this with regard to freedom of expression: that you should always be able to say what you think. I may think differently in some parts than Theo van Gogh, but I think I have the honour to say to him out loud today in this house and beyond because of my criticism of Islam, the criticism of the Party for Freedom. And Islam is the problem, Madam President. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[acknowledges that Islamic ideology leads to violence and terror;]] [[calls on the government to make the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands an objective of policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u352	We have heard that from me in a firm tone today and yesterday, Mr Wilders, but I had more trouble with the content. In the last seven months, we have taken a very long time to form a cabinet. I have often heard from Mr Wilders: my constituents are ignored. After the debate over the last two days, does he have the impression that in seven months or seven years, anyone in this Chamber would be prepared to cooperate with Mr Wilders in this way and to be there for his constituents and to be there for the people who are worried? But Mr. Wilders has also proven in the last 48 hours that he doesn't want to work together. And that is the word I have heard from a lot of people who are now going to do their job in the coalition or opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u353	No, Madam President, the opposite is the case. I am honest with my constituents because I and my party, my group, represent what we think. We are not going to negotiate with the core of our electoral programme, such as a party set up for the referendum for power and abolishing the referendum. We're not that kind of losers. We are in front of our voters and we are the only ones in the Netherlands with our views. We have also shown that we can work together. We have tolerated Rutte's first cabinet for two years, and okay, that went wrong, and how that went and why, we can differ on that, but we have done it and we have shown that we can compromise. We've been doing that for two years. So don't touch me... There are parties here that have never done so; we have done so. We are prepared to compromise, but not if it affects the survival of our country. If I have to choose between giving up the biggest existential problem we know, namely the islamisation of the Netherlands, losing our identity, losing our country, losing the Netherlands, or marbling à la Pechtold on the plush, then I choose the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u354	I think a lot of politicians here in this Chamber stand for their views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u355	Well, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u356	And the most important thing is trust, trust between the electorate and the elected one. The question of trust is also the most important thing we have here, and that is precisely where Wilders does not stand for his views: if in 2006 you put forward motions of distrust against people who have just started and in 2017 you do so again, but you do not do it in 2010 because it is not convenient, because you tolerate it, then the most important thing is trust, something Wilders himself is negotiating with. So don't come to me with a straight back; it's weak bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u357	Madam President, we are pretty much the only ones in that house who stand firm when it comes to positions. We stand for the Netherlands. We love the Netherlands. We rise every day to go here to keep our country as it is, to win our country back for a part as it was. We are paying a huge price for that. Part of that is indeed that we may not be the most popular group in the House of Representatives, but we stand for our cause and the Dutch appreciate it. We love our country. We stand up for our electorate and we are not weak people who compromise everything like D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u358	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u359	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by joining Mr Wilders: it is appropriate to reflect on the day of Theo van Gogh's death. I didn't know him personally, but I was a great admirer of his fearless style and fearless tone. And I think that if he had been there, he would have mocked today and Islam, and this debate, and us, and myself and Mr Wilders, because everything and everyone with a position of influence or power should be mocked and criticised. I hope we hold up that free word here, too. I also hope that we will use this constructively, as well as the right we have here, the privilege, to express ourselves in a democracy, to vote, to determine our position and to choose whether or not you are working together. That is why I called for cooperation yesterday, and the question is, of course,: did it succeed? Have we approached each other to adapt things, to get them better for the Netherlands? In some respects it has become clear that it can be done. The extent to which this can be achieved, even today, remains to be seen. On some points it has also become clear that sometimes ideological differences or opinions on a social theme differ so much that you have to say: we do not come together with the best will in the world, here we have a different opinion, we are not going to find the same thing Chamberwide. Where part of it did succeed, I think, is the issue of community nursing. We've come a long way in that. Mr Asscher tabled his motion yesterday. We discussed this and there was already a rapprochement. This was discussed with the cabinet today. I think we already have the outlines of what we agree on. The question of whether or not we are going to come up with a motion which is widely supported is important in this Chamber. Outside this room it is important that you can taste widely that we want care to remain affordable and of good quality. We also want care to remain accessible. Frankly, it is also very Dutch that we do not have to pay too much for it. If the ministers are going to make agreements with the providers, we want them to take care of the money that we all earn from work. They must ensure that the quality of care is good. The austerity should not be achieved by cutting down or increasing the working pressure of the district nurse. But if we see opportunities to save money by improving efficiency or by new methods or by reducing the amount of money involved, we must not lose that opportunity, even for all the Dutch who have to pay for it. I think the quality should be maintained so that there is time for personal attention. Nurses should not have to do the work with the stopwatch in hand. We must also ensure that it remains affordable for future generations. I do not know whether that will lead to a fine motion that we as a coalition can vote for. I have two options in my text. I won't give them both. A call has been made to modify the motion. I look forward to seeing whether Mr Asscher has done so and how the debate will then proceed. As a group, we shall consider this favourably. In any case, we share the principles. I think that's a win. That's what I'm saying here. These principles do not depend on whether or not there is a motion that we can vote for. They will remain standing and may be awarded in the motion. Mr. Chairman. In other areas, cooperation was far away. Not out of unwillingness, but because we think very differently, such as a point like the dividend tax. Then the differences in content are simply too great. I welcome the fact that we have had a solid debate on the substance of this issue. Unfortunately, it also happened that we soon came to the area of accusations or even insinuation. As if we are not all here for the purpose of doing it right for the Dutch; as if we would want to put people here in America who we do not even know. If the Prime Minister, Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold and I have put together hours of arguments as to why we are in favour of this measure, then I understand perfectly well that they do not convince. It's possible. I was sorry to hear that there had not been any arguments. An argument that doesn't convince you is also an argument. I'd like to report that to you anyway. We can just have a discussion about economic policy and the locational climate without blaming the motivations of those who think otherwise and then finish with juicy frames about Wallstreet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u360	I would like to think about what Mr Dijkhoff is talking about. He probably means the Prime Minister who said: irresponsible risk with employment if you disagree with me. That is not the way of discussing it that Mr Dijkhoff advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u361	Both, that's right. I honestly state that it is not a pre-calculation decision, that there is an element of an assessment, an opportunity in your vision of how the economy works at the moment and how companies act in it. I found it accusing me of being made of bringing $1 billion to the casino a bunch of bullshit. Again, it's not my metaphor, but you'd have to say mirrorfully that you're bringing hundreds of thousands of Dutch jobs to the casino. I don't think that makes any sense, but if you blame someone else, you can do it yourself. If you go that way, you'll end up in an exchange of absurdities that I don't think will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u362	I think that's fair. I didn't blame anyone for casino behavior. I was curious to see whether your criticism merely addressed the opposition groups or also the Prime Minister who, in the debate with Jesse Klaver, was going to be a little forced to pretend that otherwise hell and damnation would break out here. There are no such arguments. You were very fair about that. That is why I am not convinced that it is sensible. I think it's a waste of money, but I'm not gonna blame you for that. That's your political choice. I do not think it is fair to pretend that there are all kinds of facts on your side and not to mention them. That's why the debate went like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u363	It went up high, both ways. It began with the fact that yesterday Mr Klaver accused me of turning everything on red, I believe. There's always a better chance than green, because that's just one box in roulette. It'll whip each other up like that. In the end, I think that whoever wants to abolish this dividend tax really does it because he genuinely believes that it gives you a great chance to retain jobs and perhaps even create more for the Netherlands. Those who do not want to abolish it then have the impression that there is no such effect. I do not think that those who oppose the abolition of the dividend tax think that all these jobs will disappear and will buy it. I won't rub that on them. It's a risk you'll be taking, in my opinion. That is why we are in favour of abolishing it. It applies to both sides. Just as I can't guarantee that without abolishing that tax, those jobs will disappear, you can't guarantee that they will stay if you don't. It's either one or the other. Mr. Chairman. What I also regret was that we sometimes heard "facts" in the debate, so to speak. Those are things that sound like the truth, which may also be supported by a self-made graph, but which are not true: a aggregate, a combination of all kinds of factors and arithmetics just as long until something comes out of that blender that you can present in such a way that it helps you. I think that's harmful. People following a debate should be able to weigh up the arguments without worrying whether the things that politicians say are actually true. It's nice that there are a lot of journalists and others on Twitter who are going to check fact immediately, but it's kind of sad that it's necessary. I think we can have very good discussions about migration, the EU, pensions and jobs without distorting the facts and without people hearing numbers here in a debate about the Netherlands and Switzerland and migration, as happened yesterday, thinking: huh, that can't be true, can it? Then you should hope that they read tweets from in this case Flip van Dyke in which he indeed statistically shows that it is not true and that according to his calculations and saying in Switzerland there are relatively more migrants than in the Netherlands. It is difficult to increase confidence in politics if a viewer always has to keep a second screen to look for what facts are and what facts are. But I'm finishing up positively, Mr. Chairman. I have heard many concerns and many criticisms and complaints in this debate. I'm just gonna say it again, that's okay. But I have also tried a lot of support for parts of the coalition agreement. Investing in the police so we can feel safe on the street. Accepting refugees, but more so outside the Netherlands, so people don't have to worry about how their neighborhood changes. Strong stand for our values and freedoms and address those who do not stand for them and want to threaten them. Investing in Defense to counter threats from outside and defeat the enemy. Loving care for the elderly. A greater ambition and change in our daily life.That will not be easy.To make the Netherlands more sustainable and also to pass our country a little fresh on to the next generations. And in the meantime, by means of a huge reduction in charges, make sure that by far the majority of Dutch people improve on it in their wallets. These are all fine ambitions, which I believe have had broader support than the coalition alone, and which this cabinet now needs to deliver, because expectations have been raised. I wish the Cabinet good luck with that. Keep in mind who we do it for: not for ourselves, but for the Dutch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u364	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u365	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for his first-term answers. It is always special to see that someone can last so long to answer all those questions that are being asked here. Appreciate that. Mr President, I liked the debate. I think we've been able to see what the next few years will look like here. I think that this cabinet can look forward to a united left-wing opposition, which will, wherever necessary, face up to this cabinet, for example, with regard to the gifts given to the multinationals, but also with regard to a united left-wing opposition seeking cooperation on the points where we think we can move forward together. In this context, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the open attitude I have seen on climate. Yeah, I was and I'm very critical of what's on paper right now. That's not enough for me. But the attitude I have tasted to talk about it, to see how we can make it better, does make me optimistic. I said, can we meet next week? The Prime Minister was a little reluctant in that regard. But to my surprise it turned out that this morning I hadn't even seen it myself, that the new Minister for Economic Affairs had already made an appointment with me for next Wednesday. Many thanks for that; I am very pleased that we are already going to talk on Wednesday about how we are dealing with this Climate Act and how we can ensure that it can also be steered through Parliament as soon as possible. Many thanks, I say to the Minister for Economic Affairs, and not necessarily to the Prime Minister. Mr President, the debate has also been on dividend taxation for a long time, for a reason. Yesterday, but also today with the Prime Minister, we debated a lot about the question: why would you do this? What is the reason why the dividend tax should be abolished? We've been looking for the arguments. And in the end, the main argument remained that there are companies that say that this really has to be done and that otherwise it has consequences for the choice they make about where they settle. That is the only argument that stood up to the question of why this was so important. The Prime Minister made the argument of himself. He said: I am aware of it and I am convinced of it in all these international contacts. That is why we have asked: "Let us see who you are talking to, and let us see who you are talking to." I think that's important to give insight. There are two ways to do that. One: Preferably give you the names of these companies. Then we can really see whether these are important companies for the Netherlands, or happiness seekers. Or, at least you say how many companies have indicated that this should be abolished. In that way we have at least an overview of that. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government abolishes the dividend tax, which costs EUR 1.4 billion;]] [[noting that this measure was not included in any electoral programme;]] [[whereas the Central Planning Bureau indicates that it is unable to assess the possible impact of this measure on the Dutch economy;]] [[whereas the Prime Minister states that companies have called on him to abolish the dividend tax;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of at least how many companies and, where possible, which companies have called for the abolition of the dividend tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u366	I hope the Prime Minister can see that we've been looking for space here, too. He has indicated that he is having trouble naming the names. I hope he'd like to weigh that one more time. But we're asking here to quantify at least. That's the minimum, isn't it? We want to find out how many people have asked for this. Mr President, I also have a motion on dividend taxation. I have had little enthusiasm throughout the Chamber for the abolition of this dividend tax. Except for the coalition parties, but that's no surprise. There are many different destinations to think of for the 1.4 billion that is now heading towards the abolition of the dividend tax. I would prefer to put the money myself in, for example, not raising VAT. You can also use it to raise teachers' salaries. Mr Van der Staaij said yesterday: you could also invest it in Defence. I say to him: yes, you could do that, too, so that the investments in it would go up to 2 billion. I don't have that in the GroenLinks election program, but if I have to choose between putting this money in the abolition of dividend tax, or letting the money go to the Department of Defense, or what fun things aren't anymore; please, choose something that has a real effect and we know it's going to work. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the abolition of the dividend tax was not included in any electoral programme;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from abolishing the dividend tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u367	Mr President, I had a nice debate about our beloved Hague market. I liked hearing the Prime Minister talk about that. Yesterday it was about pizzas and today it was also about the price of strawberries. I maintain that I think it is an extremely bad idea to increase VAT so generically. I don't think we should. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in the low VAT rate has a significant negative impact on people's purchasing power and economic opportunities for small businesses;]] [[whereas the dividend tax has no empirical effect on employment in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the tax on profits for large companies is significantly reduced, whereas in most countries around us a higher rate applies to the Vpb;]] [[Calls on the Government to remove the increase in VAT by 2019 and to finance it from the removal of the dividend tax of 1.4 billion in combination with a smaller reduction in the general rate of profit tax from 25% to 23%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u368	Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the climate. I have indicated that I am pleased that we will soon be discussing the Climate Act and that I am pleased with the space available to look at all the measures, but I still have some reservations with the Prime Minister regarding the underground CO storage. There is a real concern for me, also in relation to the talks that will have to be held about a new energy agreement. We all know that both business and environmental organisations are very critical of the scale of the plans being made to store CO underground. That is why space is needed if this opportunity is to succeed. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to keep open in the discussions on the national climate and energy agreement the option that CO capture is not funded from the renewable energy budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u369	Finally, Mr President. The last part of the debate was on migration. I had a debate with the Prime Minister on the question: how are we going to deal with dragging these boats back? In what way do we ensure that the rights of individuals remain guaranteed and that they are not returned to a place where they are not safe? I didn't find the Prime Minister's answer convincing. It worries me. I also have the feeling that what is written down in the coalition agreement is not quite clear and that words have been added to ensure comfort, but that they are not going to mean so much in practice. That is why I would like an opinion, and that is why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to pick up drownings from the Mediterranean Sea and send them back to the nearest safe harbour, even if that is on the side from which they have left;]] [[whereas people cannot be returned to a situation where they are at risk and this requires an individual test;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Foreign Affairs Advisory Committee whether and how it is possible to return refugees before they are carried out in the territory of the European Union without the violation of the principle of non-refoulement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u370	Mr. Chairman. This is a request for more information and I hope that colleagues here in the Chamber are prepared to support it. Mr President, I shall conclude. I wish this cabinet team every success in the coming period. There are many new plans in the agreement. Of some we are very happy, of some we see the potential and of other things I would say: say goodbye as soon as possible. Our group, fourteen people strong, is eager to engage in the debate with all these leaders as soon as possible, to work together where possible and to find the confrontation where it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u371	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u372	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. It has been two long days, but in these two days I have become, if possible, even more motivated than I had already been to bring this coalition agreement to a successful conclusion. I am quite honest in saying that I would violate the truth if I were to say here that the only really elaborate alternative, that of SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, has convinced me so that I would have made the switch. However, any proposal that is an improvement on the plans we have, whether it comes from the Chamber or from outside, will always have to be taken seriously now and in the next four years, regardless of the party it proposes. I have already heard that Mr Klaver is going to visit the Minister of EZK next week. That's incredibly beautiful. What I also like is that we see a new way of working, where the opposition says: we are just going to talk to these ministers in their office. In this case, it is even faster than I myself as a coalition party will meet one of the ministers in their Chamber. In the past it was often said: that is back room politics. But we are now in a new phase, in which we are all doing these consultations with the aim of making a better law in the Chamber. In any case, it makes me feel a little more at ease if I wanted to see one of the rulers in the future. The second. The conclusion of these two days is that as far as the CDA is concerned, the coalition agreement stands proudly. I'm going to say something about that. What is certainly special is that this cabinet seems to have the confidence of the Chamber with all the harsh words that have been said, including by the first speaker this evening. In the past, however, in the previous cabinet, a cabinet did not gain the confidence of the entire Chamber at the start. We know in this country the rule of trust, which says that there is trust, unless it is expressly withheld by motion or otherwise. There may still be motions of mistrust, but the fact that it is possible to start with a coalition of a majority of only one with the confidence of the whole Chamber must be a good feeling after this long debate. This does not mean that the number of political groups that will actively support this agreement has increased after these two days. It remains an agreement based on a majority of one. But in that respect, I still hold on to the adage of the old CHU, one of the three founders of the CDA. There they said: not the majority but the authority. It is not the size of the support, but the strength of the story that determines it. And here's a powerful story. Four parties, which I see we will defend and promote this agreement with all four of us. A cabinet that exudes in everything that it's ready for the big challenge for the next four years. The CDA would like to give this cabinet the confidence. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u373	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u374	Madam President. I have good news for the Prime Minister. "If you want a vision, you have to go to an ophthalmologist," he said. Apparently, he went to the ophthalmologist, because I've seen a very clear vision over the past two days. I am pleased, not because I agreed, but because we have had a very good debate here over the last two days. A good, substantive and ideological debate in which the contrasts between the Prime Minister's vision and the general view of the three left-wing opposition parties became clear. A very nice debate on the fight between capital and labour. A very nice debate on the fight between capital and people, on the vision of the cabinet on society, on the economy, on the way we look at the economy, on the role of the government, on the role of society, on human dignity, on solidarity and on equality. This kind of debate tastes like more. Mr. Chairman. I have often heard these two days come by, also from the coalition parties, that many people feel that politics is no longer there for them. Strong debates in which it is really about something, help to restore that confidence. But a lot of people still have that feeling. They're often right, too. Certainly, there are a lot of good proposals in the coalition agreement that we are also pleased with. There is also considerable investment in areas where it is necessary. We will support that. But if 60,000 teachers demonstrate, it won't pass if the Prime Minister doesn't give them home. If hundreds of thousands of sick people say they can't afford the risk, the Prime Minister shouldn't look away. But if VNO-NCW calls, maybe it was a CEO of a multinational or maybe the Prime Minister heard it somewhere on a drink abroad.................................................................................................................................................................... Then the Prime Minister comes right over and suddenly 1.4 billion is available for the removal of a tax, which no one spoke about in these parties before the election in this Chamber. I have said it before: the Prime Minister thinks that lowering taxes will create more jobs for multinationals, but no one has yet been found to prove it. That is why we supported Mr Klaver's motion. In addition to removing the dividend tax, the tax on profits for large companies is reduced. I asked the Prime Minister, where does this race to the bottom end of this tax war end? How often are we going to experience that taxes, supposedly due to international competition, need to be further reduced for multinationals at the expense of ordinary people in society? Why does this cabinet start a tax war? I still haven't had a satisfactory answer to that. Mr. Chairman. If the Prime Minister really wants all people to feel that politics is there for them again, then politics must also be there for young people with disabilities who want to work very badly, but who cannot work fully because of their limitations. I have noticed today that many people have rightly been disturbed by the fact that the Prime Minister has put them away as poor people. I hope he will put that right in the second term. They hear that everyone is making progress except them. They're not everyone. Aren't they one of them? I shall therefore table the following two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wajong benefit for people with an active capacity is reduced by 5% as of 1 January 2018;]] [[whereas people with a Wajong benefit also deserve confidence in the future;]] [[noting that the cabinet claims that no one is getting worse, while Wajongers are getting worse;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the planned reduction in Wajong benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to allow people with a disability to work massively below the minimum wage by means of pay dispensation;]] [[considers that this is directly contrary to the principle of the minimum wage and the principle that work should pay;]] [[calls on the government to abandon the proposal to allow people to work below the minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u375	Mr. Chairman. We talked a lot about care for the elderly yesterday and today. The good news is there's gonna be money available. There's gonna be 2.1 billion for nursing homes. But that money must come from care, from the people who are doing the work and looking for those colleagues, and from the elderly who deserve more attention and therefore need to get it. The extra money should not be placed in unnecessary bureaucracy and overhead or exorbitant salaries. That doesn't settle the coalition agreement yet. I therefore submit the next motion, which you must see in line with the Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers manifesto. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the problems surrounding the quality of care in nursing homes are commonplace and persist for too long;]] [[noting that the cabinet has allocated EUR 2.1 billion to ensure good care in nursing homes;]] [[considers that good care should be provided by employees who have sufficient time to care and pay attention to residents;]] [[Considers that confidence in politics is seriously affected if the substantial investment does not lead to additional staff to enable this good care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the extra money for nursing home care is well spent and not leaked into unnecessary bureaucracy and overhead, exorbitant salaries and senseless real estate projects, and to make a plan for this and to submit to the Chamber for the budgetary treatment of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u376	Mr. Chairman. In March, the referendum on the tow law will be held. Whether the cabinet likes it or not, and whether the cabinet will succeed in taking control of people or not, the referendum will come. The SP wants people to be able to trust that their voice matters. We all live in a democracy. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there will be an advisory referendum on the Intelligence and Security Service Act;]] [[Notes that the current Referendum Act is simply in force;]] [[calls on the government to take seriously the outcome of the referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u377	Finally, Mr President. There are other choices possible. We have shown that. We can choose to give people more certainty. We will wholeheartedly support proposals from the cabinet to make policy more humane and social. We will come up with many alternatives to show where to do otherwise, where to do better and where to do better. We will always stand side by side with all those people and organisations that are moving to enforce social change in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world. That's why I have one final motion. On 10 December, the International Campaign for the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons will receive the Nobel Peace Prize. After 40 years of campaigning, there is a UN treaty against nuclear weapons. That's a huge success. I would like to congratulate them on that once again. Only the signature of the Netherlands is still missing. Signing would be a wonderful tool in the pursuit, including this cabinet, of a nuclear-free world. It is not incompatible with NATO obligations. Hence this last motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that there are significant risks of proliferation of nuclear weapons;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to actively engage in a nuclear-free world within the framework of its all-encompassing obligations;]] [[also considering that the Netherlands is pursuing a nuclear-free world, including a comprehensive, enforceable and verifiable nuclear weapons ban;]] [[noting that the Italian Parliament has recently asked the Italian Government to examine, within NATO membership, the international treaty for the abolition of nuclear weapons;]] [[calls on the Government to examine further the possibilities of signing the Treaty on the abolition of nuclear weapons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u379	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u380	Mr. Chairman. First of all, may I thank the Prime Minister very much for his response in the first term? I've been walking by for myself for the past few years. I thought, the first time, with Rutte I, I had a little trouble with it all. The second time it got a little less. And now I had the feeling for most of the story: yes, that is also on my behalf. So there's progress in that. Mr. Chairman. I finished my contribution yesterday in the first term just as I ended when I presented the coalition agreement, namely with the words 'at work'. After those seven months, I feel like it's really gonna start now. If the viewers have felt like this is working for the past two days, then I say, for us, that's it. It's very serious. It is also important, because at the start of a cabinet the paper is slowly becoming reality. I am incredibly pleased that the cabinet has assured me that we are now going to move from paper to tangible results that people are waiting for and that we will have them in the budget discussions over the next few weeks, with clear priorities. I think it is important that directors should also be able to tell themselves where they will see the chance to achieve real results for the Netherlands in particular in the coming year. That may be an intermediate step, but that can also be a first real result. The most important thing for me is that people are really gonna see what changes this. Because rightly so, there is some criticism that it is 2030, 2050. It all seems so far away, but it is now the next three and a half, four years in which we must be able to see results. I cannot stress that enough. Under the Climate Act, I really saw that the cabinet is going to take seriously the criticism that is obviously there about what is not yet right and what has not yet been filled in. I too, with Mr Buma, am quite jealous that we were not invited first. But okay, okay, I'd be happy to let Mr. Klaver go first. Mr. Chairman. I hear some agenda technical questions from Minister Wiebes from trade union K, but we'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u381	You can't interfere, Mr. Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u382	So we'll do that later. I would simply like to give Mr Klaver the credit. I am also glad that we are getting on with very different things right away. Today I asked for a very topical point: how is the minister responsible for emancipation going with such a topical issue as the order of precedence in which the Netherlands finds itself when it comes to gender inequality? This means that not everything needs to be in a coalition agreement, but that even today you can prove that new developments, setbacks or windfalls, can be taken directly by a cabinet. I also think it is so important that we are now told where these priorities are, because I am telling you honestly during the negotiations that the amounts were also divisive at some point. If you see how much money goes to education, almost 2 billion, and how much money goes to Defense, over 1.5 billion, that's huge amounts. But I would particularly like to see how this is divided and how we are going to ensure that, for example, in the case of the Defence Department, but also in the field of education, teachers get that confidence back. Then there's the concept of "excited hand." I can clearly tell we're exploring that. During the formation we had for a while with the PvdA in a rather pleasant way just a common goal about education. I've noticed that's what we've been looking for since then. That is, by the way, broader than just that one group, because it is also about other groups. That is, I think, also an obligation. Anyone can hold my group to that. I also want to hear when there are things that aren't going well in there. If I can, I want to find that cooperation, and if we can't, let's show it in a clear way. It would be a nice thing for me if those doubts about how it is going to be done in the immediate future could be removed, something which has become a bit of a symbol over the past few days, and we could get a broad support for what is needed along that line of quality, accessibility and workload in this Chamber. And also the program SheDecides simply from a previous cabinet take over and continue. That has actually already been made in a commitment. That too is part of continuity; I hope that this cabinet will simply look at good things from the past. Mr. Chairman. We are now moving towards budgetary treatment. There it can all be much more concrete and, as far as I am concerned, with the aim of working not only here but also with civil society organisations, people in society who are critical, seeing those opportunities or whatever. For the last time, I say get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u383	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u384	Mr. Chairman. It is an enormous honour to be a member of the House of Representatives and this also creates an obligation to deal with democracy with caution. I do not have very much with people who stand here and say: I represent only the Dutch people, I am the hero here. I think everyone in this Chamber is trying to do their job well and I think a voice on Wilders is worth as much as a voice on Dijkhoff, on Asscher or on anyone else. I have no objection to debates on any religion or ideology. I object to debates where you suspect or distrust the bond of real concern about extremism, terror and danger, groups of people who cannot defend themselves, for example because people are called Muhammad and their parents are from another country. I object when people here start a heavy but beautiful task and because of that background are called disloyal, people who have this appearance. I also object to people being accused of conflict of interest or cartel behaviour without any justification. I have no objection to this because it cannot be said, because that freedom of expression is at least as sweet to me as that of any other person in this Chamber. But I object because democracy is too expensive, too vulnerable, to deal with it so carelessly. It is also undemocratic to put your own voice above another's. I therefore support Buma's request to strengthen the protection of that democracy from manipulation by foreign actors. Trust in the future begins with certainty today. That's what we're judging this cabinet on. Because it is a democracy and it has been voted on mainly right-wing parties, we now have a predominantly right-wing cabinet. So what's our job? Our job isn't just to say what we think is bad. We did. I think we've done that convincingly. Our task is also to say what is good, but above all to tell us how to change course. Because that's what people expect from us. After long lean years, there is a need to invest in security, in optimism, in new opportunities. So I'm not judging on the outstretched hand here, on Wiebes' appointment book. I judge the results for the people who are really next: the teacher, the cop, the nurse, the tenant. In that respect, you see a very mixed picture of the new cabinet. I asked: is there any net savings at a time of surpluses? The tenant is told: that was over in a flash of a second, otherwise we have a gap in the budget. The teacher is told: yes, in primary education, but not in other sectors. And: yes, we'll get back to you. What's the middle ground? That's that it's a cabinet that starts enthusiastically. That is what has been granted and I wish the pleasure in his work. Coalition groups are extremely satisfied with themselves and the agreement. That's okay, too. But if it gets too clumsy or complacent, then you don't build confidence in the future. The Labour Party is open to all proposals that are now increasing the security of people, because that increases confidence in the future. The motions I have are in line with that. I'm gonna start with the motion on District Nursing. I've appreciated the Prime Minister's effort to listen carefully...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u385	I would like to ask a question on a motion signed by Mr Roemer, but co-signed by Mr Asscher. It is indeed about all those people who are in trouble or who receive special attention from among others the PvdA. It is about people with a Wajong benefit, which is reduced by 5%. That's not the result of the coalition agreement, at least, I don't recognize it. Isn't it true that this is a result of the previous cabinet, of the former Minister of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u386	Sure. There have already been motions on this subject, which we have already supported. It is typically something that we failed in the consultation with the VVD. I believe that I want to be as transparent about this as I do about other agreements that have not worked out, as you are doing very well. I believe that this discount, now that things are so much better with the Dutch economy, can and should be reversed. We have previously supported motions for resolutions on this subject, and we are now doing so again. I hope you support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u387	I note that it is indeed a continuation of the policy and that it is a decision of the previous cabinet. It is legitimate that you criticize this with retroactive effect, but it is perhaps fair to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u388	I don't think I was unfair in my answer. In fact, I pointed out to Mr Segers that, at a time of surpluses, we now have room to change this. I think he was also in favour of this change in the past, and even now he has the room to support that change through that motion. I will be very honest about what has not been achieved in the past in the negotiations with the VVD. I have a nice list of examples of that. I may be able to catch you up on a drink, but we're in Parliament now and we're going to vote on that motion and I'm going to support it, because I know there's room to help those Wajongers. I hope, Mr Segers, that you will not only ask me for honesty, but that you may also support that motion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my appreciation for the serious treatment given to the motion for a resolution on nursing thanks to the fact that the Chamber has given leave to table that motion yesterday. I heard the Prime Minister right when he said he wanted to put some anchors first. I have also consulted with the co-authors of that motion, which leads to a change, not in the operative part, but in the recitals. The motion will now be as follows. Let me read this for you, for the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u389	The motion-Asscher c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that district nurses provide the largest group of elderly people;]] [[noting that district nurses are doing a fantastic job but having a hard time due to lack of colleagues and lack of time;]] [[believes that all older people should be able to count on good care, both in nursing homes and at home;]] [[believes that quality, accessibility and the reduction of workload should be at the forefront of the new key agreements while at the same time providing scope for innovation and the fight against bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the government to exempt district nurses from cuts in the conclusion of new basic agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She gets no, was no. 8 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u390	I thought that would bring us to about 74 seats of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u391	It is an amended motion, which is copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u392	Mr. Chairman. We also debated what you actually consider to be a socially acceptable minimum. That is why, at this time, I am tabling the next motion for the benefit of the disabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that everyone who works should be able to count on the minimum social wage;]] [[noting that there is a reduction of 500 million in the coalition agreement on the disabled;]] [[Whereas there are alternatives to maintaining the minimum social standards and avoiding employers;]] [[calls on the Government to examine these alternatives so that the minimum social wage applies to all workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Thieme, Mr Wilders, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u393	I have the impression that Mr Wilders is extremely proud to be part of this. That's what you see. Mr. Chairman. We have debated the changes in labour law. There is an enormous need for greater security. That's what's written down in the coalition agreement. It's full of good intentions. I am glad that in the debate it became clear that the ambition to conclude a social agreement does not mean signing at the cross. I'm gonna record that or I'm gonna try to record it in a Chamberroom statement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people need more security and more stable work;]] [[noting that agreements with employers and employees could be of great value in a new social agreement;]] [[Whereas negotiating space is essential for a good result;]] [[calls on the Government to seek agreement with employers and employees in a new social agreement and to report to the Chamber on progress before any legislation in this area is presented to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u394	Mr. Chairman. We have also discussed in the debate the rights of women in charge of their own stomachs and the rights of everyone in this country, in order to make their own choices, in order to take advantage of the progress that has been made. There have been fine words about the cabinet's intentions to continue to defend women's rights internationally. But thanks to Mrs Buitenweg's loaned version, I noticed that the fund that makes this possible is not in the coalition agreement. That is why it is right for the Chamber to give its opinion on this matter. The next motion was not entirely co-signed by Mr Ploumen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that women and girls worldwide should be able to count on sexual education, maternity care and safe abortion, and that the Netherlands should continue to play a leading role in this process;]] [[noting that US President Trump has stopped funding these facilities for millions of women in developing countries;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its support for SheDecides in word and deed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u395	Mr. Chairman. At the end of this debate, I wish the rulers every success. I would also like to wish them an open view of what is going on outside this Chamber. I would like to announce here on behalf of the Labour Party that we are open to proposals that are better every day. I have complimented you on parts of the coalition agreement that comply with it. We're also capable of changing course. I hope we can start with that today. But it won't end there. In the end, as far as I am concerned, the choice made by this cabinet is not enough to restore confidence in the future. Where Dijkhoff said "there are only insinuations being done," I must correct something. I was talking about Chinese and American investors. In reality, it is about Canadian, Chinese, Russian, Taiwanese, Turkish and American investors. Those are the ones who benefit from the abolition of the dividend tax. These are the facts which the Secretary of State has made known to the Chamber. So I'm gonna end up with a call. We can achieve a lot more beautiful things for a lot more people now. We can create much more certainty, and thus trust in the future, by making different choices than this cabinet does. And that's what we're going to have the debate about in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u396	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u397	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. I also thank his souffleurs. Every now and then the look went around and very sensible things were whispered in his ears. Thank you for that, too. Thank you also for the patience of all the people here on my left. We still had some room for movement and could get our coffee here or there. Anyway, you guys got the coffee delivered, and that's worth something. I would also like to thank colleagues from the left to the right. There's a coalition agreement. That was put on the table here. And then you have a debate as it should be. In it you are questioned, challenged and criticised, from left to right. And yet, if I let the last two days go through the review and make the balance, I do not regret my signature under the coalition agreement. That's it. This cabinet can start, with very ambitious plans. The Prime Minister began his contribution by underlining the importance of broad support. I would also like to underline that, because that is crucial. The same applies to the climate agreement. Questions have been asked about this and commitments have been made. The first appointments have been made. It will be a broad agreement, which will also lead to broad political consultation, in the full width of the Chamber. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate for his initiative, because he is now making proactive agreements. As far as I'm concerned, he is also welcome for a cup of good coffee. Support should also be provided in the polder. There too, support must be found. Now I know that the Minister for Social Affairs, whom I have come to know somewhat in recent months, has a nickname: Boutros Boutros Koolmees. In doing so, he is named after a UN Secretary-General who was praised for his diplomatic affection. And those diplomatic gifts he's gonna need. It was a disappointment that there was no agreement in the polder for the labour market, pensions and the reforms needed in this area, but what is not yet there can still be. I have great confidence in this minister: that he is going to sit down with those people and do what he can to achieve that broad support, including in the polder. In an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister, we talked about an integrated approach to living and caring for the elderly. A lot of work is being done on nursing home care. There's a lot of extra money for that. We have said that it is important that there is also room for other forms of living and care at home. We have just seen the motion tabled by the PvdA Group on community nursing. It's a cri du coeur we've heard. The finger has been placed on the sore spot and that has not passed unnoticed. It is important that we look at the whole domain, where older people grow older and need good care. The Prime Minister has indicated that the Minister of VWS will look into this and give his views on it at a later date. I look forward to that, because that is very important. I also said yesterday that it is crucial for the Christian Union Group not only to address the great challenges and challenges of the cabinet, but also to implement the smaller sections of the labour market, pensions, climate, integration and migration. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment that the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution will be speeded up. He mentioned a term of six months for the Law regulation prostitution. Other legislation may take a little longer, but the Christian Union strongly encourages this. Finally, Madam President. I started quoting Kim Putters yesterday. I referred to the visit he made to us twice. I think he's been there at a previous stage of the negotiations as well. He told a story that made an impression. You can see in the introduction to this coalition agreement that it has left its mark. Combating contradictions, bridging gaps, reducing contradictions: this is an assignment to this cabinet. Kim Putters, whom we have now seen several times, who has told a compelling story, who keeps his finger on the wrist every time and who feels the pulse of society, will work on The social state of the Netherlands 2019. That's two years from now. I would ask the Prime Minister to ask him once again, if he is going to work on that social state of the Netherlands, to look very closely at the gaps we have then appointed, which we have planned to reduce, for which we have referred to the measures. Will the Prime Minister ask him to keep us focused and to keep a mirror in front of us, so that we can remember the talks we had with him and the intentions we had in this agreement, so that we can see what has come of it and where it should be done better? Finally, Madam President. There are many plans, very ambitious plans. There is also a beautiful ambitious team here. I wish you all a great deal of strength, pleasure and joy, and once again the blessing of God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u398	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, the coalition parties talked about regaining confidence in democracy. But when you turn your back on the possibility of direct democracy - referenda - and at the same time direct business, when you do everything you can to make the multinationals and shareholders happy, when you constantly put economic growth above the interests of this planet and its inhabitants, this confidence will only crumble further. In the area of climate, one of the biggest crises of our time, the cabinet has not even done its homework for half. Necessary measures, inescapable measures to tackle climate problems, such as the use of behavior change by citizens, businesses and public authorities, are anxiously avoided. That's a huge missed opportunity. Bert Metz, scientist, former member of the IPCC and former climate negotiator for the Netherlands, said last year: we only have five years to stay within one and a half degrees of warming. This means that this cabinet period must take place. Therefore, helping to implement climate policy is urgently needed. Maybe we should just get the door to the Treves room out. D66 and the Christian Union invited us yesterday to continue to drive and participate in meeting the climate objectives. That invitation will gladly take my party. Pechtold and Segers want a more sustainable society. That was also apparent during the elections and was in their election programme. In this context, I would like to recall Jan Terlouw's climate manifesto, signed by all political youth organisations. I am therefore tabling six motions which include a number of wonderful sustainability measures from the D66 and the Christian Union election programmes. We wholeheartedly support them and hope that the other parties will join us. Like the Party for Animals, D66 believes that it is important to save energy and not just make it more sustainable. Therefore warm support for a top idea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to do at least everything we have to build new energy neutrally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u400	The netting control allows the owner of solar panels to return electricity to the energy company. The scheme will be phased out from 2020. That is completely unwise, because according to the PBL this leads to less solar power. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the netting scheme of generated solar energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u401	Both D66 and the Christian Union have stated in the election campaigns that the government has a task to promote the use of plant alternatives to animal proteins such as meat. It's like we came up with it ourselves, Mr. Chairman! That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to encourage scaling-up of meat replacement production in order to reduce meat consumption and production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u402	The Christian Union states in its election programme that the underground storage of CO is an expensive technique that costs a lot of energy and does not contribute to the energy transition. They're absolutely right! Therefore: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to give priority and public money to the underground storage of CO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u403	I see Mr Segers looking very surprised, but it was actually communicated during the elections. Mr. Chairman. The EUR 1,300 billion investment space of pension funds offers a great opportunity to invest in sustainable companies and initiatives. I read the next great idea of the Christian Union in the election program. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make binding agreements with investors (such as pension funds) to reduce investment in fossil energy and shift to clean energy and energy saving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u404	The Christian Union rightly states that for a maximum temperature increase of 1°C to 1.5°C in the Netherlands, we must open the energy agreement to meet our national objectives. That's right. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is sticking to the energy agreement that is still in force until 2023;]] [[noting that it postponed necessary measures, such as the closure of coal power stations, to a subsequent cabinet period;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the energy agreement in order to achieve the climate objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u405	Mr. Chairman. In addition to these good ideas of D66 and the Christian Union, we have three requests to the cabinet today. This cabinet provides EUR 200 million for a warm clean-up of pig farming in affected areas, in particular in North Brabant. That is what we are in favour of, but if we are going to spend that EUR 200 million in taxpayers' money, it must be structural solutions and not a very expensive relocation of the problem. That's why we're filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has allocated EUR 200 million for a warm clean-up of pig farming in taxed areas;]] [[calls on the government to effectively withdraw the manure production rights associated with the warm clean-up of pig farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u406	The cabinet frees EUR 75 million to make it easier for young farmers to take over a business. This is in itself a sympathetic rule, but public investment in agriculture can no longer be separated from a necessary sustainability. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the new government has earmarked a total of EUR 75 million for a farm acquisition fund in the agricultural sector;]] [[noting that the agricultural sector has a high sustainability profile;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for the granting of funds from the farm acquisition fund for agriculture with the condition to convert the holding to organic production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u407	And this is my last request. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meat is the most environmentally polluting and climate-unfriendly part of our food package;]] [[Considering that, among other things, the Planning Office for the Environment, RIVM, the UN International Panel on Climate Change, scientists from Oxford University and Erasmus University Rotterdam urgently advise to introduce a meat tax;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the general increase in the low VAT rate and to introduce a meat tax instead,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u408	Finally. My party wants a radical change of course: to put the planet at the centre instead of the short-term interests of Western people. We look forward to the debates with the cabinet, to persuade the cabinet to do so and to make proposals there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u409	Thank you. It's very noisy in the hall. I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u410	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you also to the Prime Minister for all the answers. Let me start with purchasing power development. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, Rutte III's plans are not balanced and even for workers, people who are unable to work and people who have worked. In fact, 1% of households working, 9% of households receiving benefits and as many as 12% of retired households are declining in purchasing power during this period of government. 12%: that means over 220,000 retired households losing purchasing power. According to the Central Planning Bureau. 50PLUS therefore comes to the discussion of the Tax Plan and the Social Affairs and Employment budget with concrete proposals through amendments. In addition, I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the policy of the Rutte III Cabinet does not lead to a sufficiently balanced and uniform purchasing power development for workers, those unable to work and those who have worked,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u411	Then the AOW age. This cabinet continues to increase the AOW age and thus ignores a very broad call from society, including employers, employees and workers. Increasing the AOW age puts pressure on the labour market, promotes long-term unemployment and increases the use of social services. 50PLUS is clear: bring the age of the AOW back to 65. Hence the next motion, which was also signed by Mr Roemer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reduce the AOW age to 65,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u412	As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is unfair to let Dutch homeowners bleed for a big gift to foreign investors and multinationals. A million people, including 500,000 elderly people who have properly paid off their mortgage by living in a thrifty manner according to the law, are now punished with a penalty of EUR 1 billion. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rutte III cabinet introduced a redemption penalty by abolishing the deduction for no or minor property debt (Law-Hillen) in 30 steps;]] [[noting that the Rutte III cabinet also intends to abolish the dividend tax, which is characterised in the CPB transfer as relief to foreign nationals;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to have low-cost Dutch homeowners pay for a great gift to foreign investors and multinationals;]] [[calls on the Government not to abolish both the deduction due to no or low housing debt (wet-Hillen) and the dividend tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u413	50PLUS supports Mr Roemer's motion to delete the planned discount on the Wajong. The motion tabled by my 50PLUS colleague, Mr Van Brenn, will also be put to the vote later today. This miserable measure must be removed from the table. I would remind the Prime Minister that, as far as he is concerned, the door of the Trêveszaal would be ajar. Finally, unfortunately, there will be no coordinating minister from or for older people's affairs. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that's a missed opportunity. In our view, it is necessary to look fully at older people's policies, across policy areas and directors. Previously, my group tabled a motion to establish a special committee on the elderly. This motion will be put to the vote shortly. I urge all groups to support this proposal. It really is of great social importance. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u414	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u415	Madam President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. It was a good debate, a broad debate, not only about money and good, but also about values and standards, as well as about our identity, history and national anthem. Many subjects have just been mentioned today. They will, of course, also come back to the forthcoming budget debates. Indeed, it is a good coincidence that we can now proceed with the budgetary debates as from next week. In my view, the overarching issue was how to gain citizens' confidence much more and more. This is the subject of a wide range of topics. And indeed, Mr Van Haersma Buma, the cabinet, and we all need a little CHU-mentality for that. Characteristic of the old CHU was that they managed to connect the people of the double names with the people on the carpentry workshop. The ordinary people, as well as the people of more aristocracy, could be connected from the point of view of "not the majority but the authority." This has also been reflected in the SGP principle programme, which states that we are not talking about the majority of voters but about the passing on of the principles of the Word. That's also a translation of that. Mr. Chairman. For the cabinet, this means that I would like to put down the following challenge to all rulers: pretend that there is no government agreement in the defence of the proposals, because then you must indeed try to convince everyone on the content. It is often too easy to say: it is in the coalition agreement. I'd like to put down that challenge. Mr. Chairman. That reference to the CHU also makes it clear that it's not that bad with a quadruple cabinet. For if KVP, ARP and CHU had not merged and RPF and GPV had survived independently, we would now have a seven party cabinet. Mr President, I am going to the motions. I have signed Mr Asscher's motion for a resolution on the issue of care, precisely because the debate clearly reflected the fact that the quality of care, accessibility and workload should not be compromised and that, on the other hand, profits can also be made in terms of innovation and bureaucracy. It is precisely in this balance that we support this motion. Mr President, then we have our own motions. I've got four of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopkeepers are required to open their shops on Sundays under threat of a periodic penalty payment in several places;]] [[considers that freedom of contract does not imply the need for protective measures to ensure the freedom of choice of shopkeepers against forced shop opening;]] [[considers that employers and employees are entitled to a good balance between work and private life;]] [[noting that the measures taken so far have not effectively prevented the imposition of shop opening restrictions;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward legislation in the short term to ensure that shopkeepers, whatever their motive, can keep their shop closed on Sundays without any threat of periodic penalty payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u416	Mr President, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement on addressing the regulatory burden calls for an extension of the current business impact test with an SME test;]] [[calls on the Government also to assess the impact on small businesses of European proposals likely to increase regulatory pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how existing European regulatory pressure can be reduced for small businesses and to work towards this at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u417	Mr President, my third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet is committed to improving relations between Israelis and Palestinians;]] [[Whereas several Member States in UN organisations, including UNESCO and the Human Rights Council, have repeatedly shown themselves to be highly biased on the Israeli-Palestinian issue;]] [[calls on the government at UN level to take an active stand against Member States in UN organisations disproportionate to Israel and, as the Dutch Government has done before, to reject unjust resolutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u418	Mr President, you know that yesterday I summarized my speech in ten tweets. There was one tweet that jumped out in terms of support on Twitter, namely the tweet "the SGP pleads for putting the Dutch flag in parliament." That should be as obvious as teaching the national anthem and, finally, a motion along with Mr Wilders, who has once proposed such a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the national flag has a beautiful and clear function as a symbol of the nation in the Chamber of Parliament;]] [[noting that it has long been a very good use in most countries to hang the flag;]] [[considers that the national tricolor deserves a place in the chamber of the House of Representatives in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Bureau to take steps to ensure that the national flag is made visible in the plenary of the Dutch Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u419	I think that is a very interesting proposal. It has been done before, but then there were some problems, because there were parties who thought that the European flag was one of them. You can see this in the parliaments you are referring to; I always notice that those two flags are in common there. May I interpret the motion in such a way that both the Dutch and the European flags will then be here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u420	Parliaments deal with this differently, and I am not unaware of that. The argument in this motion is about the Dutch national anthem and not about the Frisian flag, not about the European flag, not about the rainbow flag, but really about the red and white blue of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u421	Of course, I think this is a very good proposal. I'd like to have the CHU flag side by side, but I don't know if that's gonna make it. I think it would be a good idea for the Bureau to look into this. I know we've proposed this before, but I think even then there was a question with the architect whether it's okay. That's been very complicated. I hope it would be easier now, because we have that thing to thank for which the President is sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u422	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u423	I think it would be very sensible if the Bureau looked at this, but the general direction of the flag, including the CHU flag and the European flag, and that of all provinces, at least the Dutch flag, seems very nice to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u424	The discussion was also about flying the flag. That couldn't be so easy back then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u425	They're gonna be remodeling soon. In such a renovation there must always be a nice place for a flag to get.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u426	Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. You weren't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u427	I was at the end of my motions. Finally, I would like to remind you of my contribution yesterday to a prayer without end. Mr Buma mentioned the Reformation Remembrance. At the end of that Reformation Remembrance Tuesday evening, prayers were also made for the new government and parliament for wisdom, determination and the blessing of God. That is what I wish the new cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u428	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u429	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that we do not have to be difficult about that flag. We can hang him there. That is why we will support this motion. And what a beautiful democracy we have! We've had a wonderful debate with each other. I would like to thank Mrs Arib, Madam President, for your patience over the last two days, particularly with regard to the endless interruptions by Mr Asscher. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his stamina.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u430	I was thinking, if you're gonna compliment me, I'm gonna have to really doubt myself. That's right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u431	And, Mr President, there are a number of conclusions to be drawn after two days of debate. I would like to begin with the conclusion on fiscal policy. For this is not the Rutte III cabinet, but the Hans de Boer I cabinet, the chairman of the multinational club. Never before has it been so carelessly thrown with a tax reduction of 1.4 billion for foreign shareholders. The CPB cannot provide evidence of positive effects. The Prime Minister can't prove the positive effects. Economists cannot provide that evidence, yet this cabinet chooses to pay EUR 1.4 billion for big business. 1.4 billion! Then you wonder how many children in poverty could we have helped with this? How many homeless people could we have had a roof over their heads with this? How many people in debt could we have been spared with this? How many Wajongers could we have offered perspective on a better future? It is unbelievable that the Prime Minister does not simply want to be clear about who whispered to him this capitalist subsidy. When a large part of the Court wants to reduce its own risk, it talks about unlawful state aid to health insurers. Then you wonder if EUR 1.4 billion for big business is permissible state aid. That leads me to a conclusion. In any case, we at DENK believe that an informant should never again be appointed who has such close links with the business and banking sector. Mr President, the second conclusion. Future generations are forced by this cabinet to give up an essential part of their identity, namely their nationality in order to remain Dutch. It is good that Rutte stands up for Secretary of State Visser and Minister Ollongren. It's nice to stand up for their children. But the next generation will have to make a perverse choice of this cabinet. You are either Swedish or Dutch, or Turk or Dutch, or Belgian or Dutch. It's like asking people to choose between their father and their mother. As if people are really Dutch when they give up part of their identity. This is a discriminatory bullying measure that does not fit into a coalition agreement entitled "Confidence in the future." Because this is mistrust based on origin. To ensure that we protect future generations from this perverse measure, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new cabinet intends to organise a mandatory decision for future generations with more than one nationality, leading to the holding of no more than one nationality;]] [[believing that nationality doesn't say anything about one's loyalty, one's intentions, or anyone's contribution to our society;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt further legislation aimed at achieving a mandatory decision-making process for people leading to the holding of no more than one nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u432	Finally. I wish this cabinet success in the coming period. With a minimum majority in both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber, this cabinet is becoming extremely difficult. We are talking in this Chamber about a majority of 1 seats: 76 against 74 seats. Mr Rutte has done his best today to reach out at a number of times. He has shown that he is looking for support on the left and right, on the neighbourhood care or on the climate. In any case, I would like to say to all the rulers that the door of DENK, like the door of the Trêveszaal, is ajar. This door can be opened further if the cabinet comes up with measures to combat the division of society and to tackle racism and discrimination harshly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u433	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u434	Madam President. Yesterday I kept a comprehensive story here about the underlying problems in Dutch politics and how things can and should be different. FvD is the party of love and we insist that the Netherlands' no be respected. If our country says no, it means no. No in referenda on the European Union. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, about ever-increasing bureaucracy. Unfortunately. All the things that it didn't want and doesn't want happened and continue to happen. The whole of the Netherlands can say "me too" after what the party cartel has done to us all. So we know what we don't want. In order to give concrete expression to what we do want, I am presenting ten motions today with concrete proposals on how to do otherwise. Motion 1, 2 and 3 are about combating cartels and improving democracy, motions 4, 5 and 6 are about immigration and asylum, motion 7 is about restoring the NPO, motion 8 is about caring premiums, motion 9 is about dividend taxation and supporting SMEs and motion 10 is about structurally increasing the innovative power of our country. Motion 1. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 1 November 2017, the Election Council noted that 384,126 valid requests for holding a referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act, better known as the Drag Act, were submitted and that a referendum should be held within six months;]] [[Whereas Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act states: "If it is irrevocably established that a referendum has resulted in an advisory decision to reject, a proposal of law intended solely to repeal the law or to regulate the entry into force of the law shall be submitted as soon as possible.';]] [[noting that, following the outcome of the referendum on the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine, the Prime Minister had endlessly trained this decision and had an inimitable interpretation of the words "as soon as possible";]] [[calls on the government if the Wiv referendum leads to a valid decision to reject, to submit a repeal law within two weeks of the result of the referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u435	Motion 2. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the outgoing missionary days of the Rutte II Cabinet, directors either switched to public and/or private top posts in areas in which they themselves were involved as directors;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for directors to be placed in a situation of conflicting interests where their own career interests may conflict with the general interest;]] [[calls on the Government to present within six months a proposal requiring a cooling-off period for directors of at least two years during which period the (former) managing director cannot perform a function or otherwise be involved in public or private sector organisations or bodies in so far as they relate to or relate to the area of work for which he or she was responsible as a governing director,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u436	Motion 3. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the method of voting in the Lower House has not changed substantially since 1848 and that the present mode of voting in the Lower House is particularly inimitable and less transparent for the population;]] [[calls on the Bureau to come forward within six months with a concrete plan for the purchase and installation of an individual digital voting system and to publish the results of these votes online within one hour of the vote and to make them accessible to the public per individual Member of Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u437	Motion 4 is about immigration and asylum. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is in the Dutch interest to implement a controlled immigration policy whereby the Netherlands itself determines which immigrants are admitted and which are not admitted on the basis of objective criteria to be defined;]] [[Whereas the 1951 UN Refugee Convention is obsolete and significantly impedes the Netherlands in implementing such an immigration policy;]] [[Considering that the Rutte III cabinet, in section 4.5 of the 2017-2021 government agreement, recognises that the nature and extent of global asylum migration has changed dramatically in recent decades, and that the 1951 UN Refugee Convention no longer constitutes the appropriate legal framework for the asylum policy of the future and in doing so wishes to examine the way in which the Convention should be brought forward;]] [[noting that the situation is now so serious that the outcome of such an investigation cannot be awaited;]] [[calls on the Government to denounce the 1951 UN Refugee Convention, in accordance with Article 44 of this Convention, by 1 January 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u438	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is extremely untransparent who exactly enters the Netherlands, who gets a passport, who is executed, who is actually expelled and what are the real consequences of immigration for Dutch society;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the exact number of:]] [[all applications for asylum;]] [[all applications for asylum pending;]] [[all applications for asylum refused;]] [[all residence permits issued;]] [[all refused residence permits;]] [[all asylum procedures initiated;]] [[all asylum seekers who have been processed;]] [[all completed exposures;]] [[all naturalisations;]] [[all asylum seekers suspected of a crime and/or convicted of a crime;]] [[all status holders suspected of a crime and/or convicted of a crime,]] [[and to specify all this on country of origin, age, gender and to publish this survey online per week on the website of the IND,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u439	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas approximately 300 jihadists of Dutch nationality have left for Syria, apparently to join IS or other jihadist organisations;]] [[Considering that these people are demonstrably not shy of violence and rejecting every aspect of our way of life, and on returning to the Netherlands pose a great risk to our national security;]] [[calls on the Government to deprive all these jihadists of their Dutch nationality, in accordance with Article 14 (4) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, and not to allow any of them to return to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is great bias in the public media of the Dutch Public Broadcasting;]] [[noting that the NPO makes programmes that are extremely expensive compared to new media on the Internet and social media, and that they also attract fewer viewers;]] [[whereas many NPO programmes can be taken over by commercial broadcasters;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Public Broadcasting Office receives approximately 900 million each year, on the one hand from the State contribution to the Media Commission and, on the other hand, from Star advertising funds;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce national media contributions to the Media Commission for the benefit of the NPO by 100 million annually for a period of five consecutive years as from 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u440	Three more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u441	I would save them for budgetary treatment or for other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u442	Because, after all these days, we can't miss that one and a half minutes before reading these motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u443	You really have these very long motions. Then you come...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u444	It's a very good motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u445	Then you'll file them at another time. Thank you very much, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-5.u446	This was the second term of office. We're going to have a VSO on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 6 and 7 November. I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments. After the VSO there will be suspended for dinner break. It'll take about an hour. Thank you. You guys can leave. We are now going to start another debate.
