ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a debate on the Operation Basic Registration Persons, a large ICT project that has been going on for years and has already been three times more expensive than initially budgeted. I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, it is remarkable that there are always three-party spokesmen in this type of important debate on very large ICT pathways, which are very important for the government. Still, a lot of people think this is important. Secondly, here's what I'm saying. The main problems in this project are and will remain the planning and budget. The Minister has agreed to send a report on changes to the project to the Chamber immediately. We're very happy about that. But the VVD also very much wants to see a planning. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ICT Project Operation Basic Registration Persons (BRP) already has a wide range of planning and budget;]] [[noting that effects of changes to the Operation BRP can only be found in the planning over time, sometimes only after the change has already been made;]] [[noting that the progress reports BRP are often sent to the Chamber after a few months after a decision to change the project and schedule has been taken;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber immediately of any changes to the BRP operation and to provide the Chamber with updated planning, including any financial consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Caluwé and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27859-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I share Mrs De Caluwe's view that this is an important subject. It is not for me to have an opinion on the number of Members present in debates. Maybe other parties think it's all going well; it could be. I also realize that there are many debates in the Chamber. On the motion, which I am now being presented with, for which I would like to thank, I would like to say that, in such a long process with so many partners, there are, of course, some new facts. I have indeed promised to inform the Court of Justice of this at the next opportunity. In the case of a minor change, this can be done with the following regular progress report. If it is a very large and unexpected change, it may even be a reason to send a letter to the Chamber immediately. That is ultimately a question of the proportionality of the review. If I may read the motion in such a way that this is the case with regard to the observation and reporting of such a change, then the question then arises as to its consequences for the planning and budget over time. This can sometimes require some attention because you have to look with the chain partners, so with the suppliers and the municipalities, to see if there are any consequences at all. My tendency would be to keep those consequences as small as possible. To illustrate it, at the request of the Chamber, we included lesbian parenthood in the BRP and the population number for foreigners as a result of Bulgarian fraud at the time. If you include that in this trajectory, it is always a question of whether you can do so without delay and without any new costs. I'm trying to push that back as much as I can. It's like when you have a contractor in the house: every time you want a change, it's quickly said to be more expensive. So I'm trying to reduce that extra work. That trajectory will take a while. In line with the opinions of the BIT (ICT Examination Office), which supervises this whole process, it may be that it is not included in the plan until the next half-yearly report. I do so as quickly as reasonably possible under the watchful eye of the BIT. If that is what the motion is about, then I consider it to be a policy support and leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	As soon as possible, it makes sense, but if there is a change in a project, then I am not talking about the points and the commas, which the Minister is talking about, then you make an assessment of the consequences. That is what we want to know. I imagine you don't know all about the consequences until the hour, but that planning needs to be made. You always make a schedule. You can make a plan for large and small projects. You have to estimate the meaning of a proposed change in advance. Minister may say three to five months delay. That does not necessarily have to be up to the minute, but there must be an assessment of the consequences for the planning and the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	I read the motion in such a way that it leaves room between the moment of the Chamber to inform about the fact that there is a change in the plan and the actual moment in the multiannual plan and the budget setting out its consequences. In between, a time window can be created. If the Chamber decides to include lesbian parenthood in the Basic Registration Persons, a ruler could say: "That could have consequences, which we should portray. It is a political fact that you wish it to happen. I will return to the next planning moment to the question of whether this will result in some weeks of delay or cost increases in the final plan." I would prefer it if I were to run a company, so I would say: I will not accept this change in the plan until I know exactly what its consequences are. But I don't run a company. I am in a complex government organization, in which the Chamber sometimes decides to make changes, and then I have to look at what municipalities, autonomous levels of government and suppliers can do with it. A new fact can therefore sometimes occur. Then I'll inform the Chamber as I've just stated. I would like to point out that I do not yet have a 100% picture of what this means for planning, but that I will present this in the next report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mrs. De Caluwe, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	In concrete terms, if a decision is taken in Q2 2016 and reference is made to a April 2017 report in November 2016, we will be more than a year later. That is what we want to prevent. We would very much like an assessment of what that means for planning to be made when an amendment is mentioned. We would like to have that in the Chamber and not only after a year. Within three months is also fine, but we like to get an estimate of the effects on the planning. That is what the motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you for the explanation. I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber, but if I may read it in such a way that there is and remains between indicating that there is a change and sending it to the Chamber of Representatives of the new revised plan which includes the consequences for time and budget, I can carry it out. I need such a time window to be able to ensure with suppliers and other chain partners that the information I give is also correct. If I may read the motion in this way, I can execute her and leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO. We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday.
