ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative 'An animal is not a thing'. It is the thirteenth citizens' initiative that has been discussed by the Lower House in plenary since the introduction of this instrument in 2006 and the first citizens' initiative to be dealt with by the current Chamber. As early as March 2011, Mrs Jamie Jane Bosman started her welcome to collect signatures to get the subject of animal abuse on the agenda of the House of Representatives. More than three and a half years later, in November 2014, she was able to offer more than 40,000 signatures to the Chairman of the Petitions Committee and the Citizens' Initiatives. A round table on the initiative was held in the Committee for Security and Justice in 2016. Afterwards, it was still waiting for a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice on strengthening the tools for the Public Prosecutor and the judge in animal welfare cases. Today, almost 2,400 days after Mrs Bosman started her action, she is here in the House of Representatives to explain her citizens' initiative. Mrs. Bosman, your perseverance and your patience are admirable. I have great respect for that. You're very welcome. I would also like to welcome the people who came with you, Els Cote, Tamara van den Berg and Joanna Bosman. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and anyone following this debate via television or the Internet. Mrs Bosman will present the proposed citizens' initiative from the point of view of the Chair. I'd like to ask the Keeper of Chambers to escort her to the office. Mrs Bosman, before I give you the floor, I would like to say that you should not be interrupted during your speech and that Members of Parliament should not be allowed to make comments, so take your time off. I'll give you the time. You have about five minutes to explain your citizens' initiative. I wish you every success. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, thank you all for being here for my citizens' initiative. Thank you for all the good and encouraging words. As you have just heard, I started my citizens' initiative in 2011. I started it because I got a video of a dog getting thrown off a bridge. That dog came downstairs and he was screaming so bad. He was alive. It hurt me so much. I haven't slept in two days. Then I wondered, how can a human being do something like that? How is it that he can torment an animal like that and the video goes all over the world when he doesn't get punished? After a lot of research, I found out it was because of our Dutch legislation. Fortunately, the legislation has now been amended and an animal is no longer a thing but a living creature, but animal cruelty is still too common in the Netherlands. Since the animals cannot speak for themselves, I am here today to make their voices stand. I wasn't 18 years old when I started the citizens' initiative. People were wondering if I could do it, but here I am, proudly. I chose a citizens' initiative because I wanted my voice heard. I really wanted something to be done with it. Best members of the Chamber. An animal is a living being with a warm and beating heart. Let's please protect the animals. Let us save the animals from pain and suffering by human causes. I am talking about mistreating, deliberately hurting or neglecting another's own pets or animals, whether premeditated or not. I want the penalties for assault to increase. At present, a maximum of three years in prison or a fine of up to €19,500 is involved if it is already imposed, as this is often not done. I really don't think community service is enough to show what you've actually done to an animal, especially given the suffering that's been done to it. In addition, several scientific studies have shown that animal abuse also often leads to domestic violence. We often see that an animal is first abused and later adults or children. Animals are also used as blackmail agents: if you don't do this, I'll hurt your animal. That's also mental abuse of the victims. When the penalties are higher, of course they must also be imposed. The judges must also dare to do that. So we have to make them realize that it's important that we increase the penalties. I'm talking about fines that make you sick, or high prison sentences, as high as possible. Last year's round table showed that many judges do not understand the importance of punishing animal traffickers. I think, and according to the more than 40,000 supporters who signed up, the penalties really need to be higher. It could be a turnaround for the animals. In addition, I think that the proposed restraining ban is a nice addition to my initiative. I believe that animal abusers should never, ever again, get their hands on an animal. Let us watch this closely and make sure that animals no longer fall unnecessarily into the hands of animal executioners. Please show that animals are part of our society and that we should be good for them. We're supposed to protect the weak in our society. Nor do we allow older people to be robbed, robbed or abused in our society. The same should apply to the animals. We could, if necessary, retrain judges or police or make the abuse of animals a separate cup within their training. We could create more jobs in this way if necessary. I'd like to ask you to help me in this difficult battle. Let's defend and protect the animals. I'm not asking you to treat them equally with people, even though I would love to. But I'm asking you to give the animals more justice. Innocent animals do not have to suffer at the hands of man. Let us take the step today to punish suffering more, higher and better. I want to thank you all once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much for these fine words towards the Members of Parliament and your emotional appeal. I hope you will be able to follow this debate when you are back in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	We shall now proceed to the debate on this citizens' initiative. It is an ordinary debate with four minutes' speaking time in the first term and a third in the second. This debate is, of course, taking place between MPs, but also with the Minister for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us establish one thing at the beginning of the debate. This debate should be the culmination of the citizens' initiative 'An animal is not a thing'. We are now doing it three years after the necessary signatures have been collected and one and a half years after a round table discussion has taken place. Whatever you think of the content of that initiative, Mr President, we must, as you yourself said, admire the perseverance of the initiator in this. As far as the SP is concerned, we must also note that this long process may not have been an advertisement for the phenomenon of 'citizen initiative' or even for politics in general. That is a pity, because it is precisely "An animal is not a thing" that is a good example of how a wide-ranging subject can be addressed in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. There are two very general but still very important observations to be made about animal cruelty: it is terrible and it is too common. I don't think there's a spokesperson here who won't agree. That is not how I know the spokesmen from the debates. So we all support the basis of the citizens' initiative. Well, things have happened over the past three years; that has just been said by the initiator. There is new legislation and we are now awaiting the latest renewal, the independent restraining ban, which the SP hopes will soon be sent to the Chamber. It is known that one of the greatest frustrations of people who have much to do with animal abusers is that they can easily start over again with animals. Hopefully, this law will soon reach the Chamber so that we can actually get to work. This raises the question of what else we should and can do. If I do have to ask the Minister a question, is that: does he have the idea that, if there is an independent restraining ban, we will have some legislation that is appropriate in order to deal with the various aspects of animal cruelty? I believe that, regardless of legislation, we can make a profit on implementation. For example, we can ensure that all participants in the justice chain, whether they are street agents or judges in the courtroom, inform about the possibilities that the law already offers at present to recognise animal abuse earlier and to tackle it harder and more specifically. Mr. Chairman. The strength of a citizens' initiative lies in the fact that a broad-based sense of society can be placed here in the Chamber. It is clear that the horror of animal cruelty and frustration because too little seems to be done about it, is a broad life in society. It is up to politics, to us, to formulate answers, but we cannot do that alone. That is precisely why I would like to thank the initiator not only for this initiative, but also for continuing to harass politics on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Futselaar. We are now going to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Bosman for her perseverance, but also for the very good way in which she has spoken to us. The D66 Group therefore welcomes this citizens' initiative, 'An animal is not a thing', and that it is now on the agenda. But it's been so long! This dossier really seems to be characterized by very slowly rotating mills. As in 2010, D66-Kamer member Boris van der Ham asked to be able to impose a restraining order as an independent sentence or measure. In 2010! In 2014, Mr Schouw insisted on following up this action. Now, in 2017, we have the announcement of an independent restraining order. In response to my colleague, Mr Grothuizen, when will this legislation come into effect, the Minister replied that this would take place in the course of 2018. We'll be eight years away. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the responsibility you have as animal keepers to take good care of your animal, whether you are a farmer or have an animal in your family. After all, an animal is not a thing. Where this goes wrong, the government comes in. Then we'll check from the Chamber to see if the government's doing its job properly. This action can be improved in two respects. First of all, animal welfare is important to maintain. Good enforcement by the triangle police, National Inspection Service Animal Welfare and NVWA requires good communication. I am getting signals that animal suffering is caused by inadequate or ununiform communication between these services. Some police officers are doing an excellent job, but others keep the information to themselves. Does the Minister see any possibility of improving communication between these services? And then two. In 2011, a Covenant of Animal Enforcement was concluded between the National Inspectorate for Animal Protection, the National Police and the NVWA. In doing so, 180 officers were appointed to the national police with a role in the field of animal welfare. At the same time, a notification number was set: 144 Save an animal. Those reports originally entered the Member's premises before that time and then transferred to the task holders. They will forward the notifications to the Member. But, over the years, the accent holders were given much more tasks. You can see that in some regions the number of notifications that are being made from these task holders to the Member is declining very much. And that's worrying. 'Cause if you're a civilian, you're reporting 144, you want something to happen to this report. That is especially true when you consider that sometimes it is a matter of acquaintances or neighbors. So the detector sometimes has something to overcome to report a failure. Mr President, the keeper of an animal must take good care of the animal. And although things are slow, there are more and more opportunities for the government to intervene if that does not happen. With the independent restraining order, we have the system complete. That's great, but then it has to work. Communication between the services concerned is crucial, as far as the D66 group is concerned, to achieve animal welfare in practice. For this purpose, it is important that the notifications are forwarded from 144 to the Member State. It also rhymes, Madam President, I cannot help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by expressing my appreciation to Mrs Bosman? Today will be a special moment for her, the initiator of the citizens' initiative An animal is not a thing, and for the people who are assisting her today and who may have helped her. The submission of a citizens' initiative is undoubtedly a great achievement. I'd like to point that in her direction. At the end of 2014, the citizens' initiative was submitted, with the request to the House of Representatives to punish animal abuse more severely and to actually impose the existing penalty measure. Animal welfare and its enforcement is becoming increasingly important for people in the country. In a civilized country like the Netherlands you can expect people to take good care of their animals, that they deal with their own or other animals in a decent way. Unfortunately, that does not always happen. We need to be critical of that. Both before and after the presentation of the citizens' initiative, a number of steps have been taken in relation to animal welfare in general, and in relation to the heavier punishment of animal abuse more specifically. For example, the intrinsic value of the animal has been included in the Animal Law, the probationary period of a restraining ban has been extended as a special condition and a number of investigations have been carried out which have led to a contour letter from the Minister, proposing to strengthen the instruments for the prosecution and the court. It includes, for example, the intention to criminalise the harassment of animals against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	I am left with the idea that sometimes there are different measures of animal cruelty to pets and animal cruelty to farm animals. So I wonder what the honourable Member thinks about such things as cutting off chicken beaks, or the fact that cocks often go through the shredder when they are not needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	Today we are talking about the citizens' initiative as it stands. I think today is about punishment and punishment, the approach and how we deal with business. Around the interventions that Mrs Buitenweg is talking about, there are rules in this country. I believe that the rules as we have them should also be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	Does Mrs Lodder not agree with me that it may also be that we do have rules in the Netherlands, but that those rules are nevertheless such that they allow animal cruelty, and that we may need to revise some of them in the context of the fact that an animal is not a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	Again, that is not the issue today. We have talked about this several times, and I think we should deal with it responsibly. But once again, I am sticking to the debate today as it is before us, and that concerns the enforcement of existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the steps that have already been taken, and that is a good thing. Of course, the VVD requires owners to take good care of their animals and that animal neglect or cruelty should be addressed. If it turns out that the current instruments are not sufficiently effective to address neglect or abuse of animals, then it is good to explore how this can be better implemented. Mr. Chairman. I think it would be wise to discuss the legislative proposals announced in the outline letter if the legislative proposal is actually coloured in. My group awaits the bill with interest. But there is another point I would like to raise: the level of penalties. I read in the author's letter that she is in favour of actually imposing maximum penalties. My group is not in favour of this. There is and will always be room for customisation, as the context of a criminal offence may differ and not every neglect or abuse has the same, sometimes far-reaching, consequences. However, it is striking that in practice, on average, low fines are imposed. The maximum fine in the Animal Law is now €20,500. The average fine imposed is around €1,640. That's not a very frightening amount. That is why my question to the Minister is: what is needed to achieve higher fines, fines that actually have a deterrent effect? Is the Minister prepared to take stock of what actions are needed to achieve on average higher fines? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Animal cruelty is sick, reprehensible. It is frankly embarrassing that people have so little respect for living beings that they commit animal suffering in the form of animal cruelty and neglect, or in any way. This applies not only to people who abuse their animals at home but also to the bio-industrie, where animals, despite all the legal hollow phrases as "intrinsic value of the animal," are treated as products without feeling. It is a barbaric way of dealing with animals, which increasingly raises deep social indignation and anger. Fortunately, because the way people handle animals in a civilised society should be different. Animals should not only be able to live without pain and discomfort, but they should also be able to practice their own natural behavior. Animals not only have intrinsic value; they also have rights. On behalf of the Party for the Animals, I would like to thank the initiator for her commitment to putting something very fundamental on the agenda of the House of Representatives, namely that an animal is not a product, not an object, not a thing. It is remarkable that a citizens' initiative is being discussed in this Chamber today. The fact that it has been on the agenda for many years without actually being planned is quite regrettable. Over 40,000 signatures isn't nothing. Mr. Chairman. Again, it is not just about pets being beaten by their sadistic owner, kicked, neglected. The news was dominated this summer by examples of how the bio-industry deals with animals. Images of barn fires, where you heard the pigs screaming in agony and finally saw blackened, charred over each other. The tens of thousands of completely unnecessarily gassed chickens, because they no longer had any economic value. It's been choking with biting gas for minutes, then thrown into one pile by an excavator. Then the day-to-day agony for the puffy chickens with feet sores, deformed and too heavy to stand. Mr. Chairman. There is no more powerful way to dishonor animals than the way the bio-industry does. But we also see it in the pleasure hunt, where animals are shot without any use or necessity and often not in one shot. They live for a long time with bullets in their bodies and then eventually die of internal bleeding. This is what we are allowing in the Netherlands, also at the moment. Our law does say that animals are not a business, not a thing. It's in the Civil Code, but it's also in the Animal Code. There is talk about the intrinsic value of the animal, about animal welfare, also in the new Nature Protection Act, but when it comes to dealing with the life of animals we make exceptions to exceptions in practice. Not because we're so good for animals, but because we think money, economic gain is much more important than animal life itself. That's a choice we made, but it has to be different. Mr. Chairman. The more than 40,000 signatories to the citizens' initiative want people who abuse animals to be punished more severely. They are quite rightly outraged that animal abusers are often not punished at all. The cabinet will come up with a legislative amendment to allow a restraining ban as an independent measure. That change should ensure that animal executioners can no longer avoid their punishment. The Animal Party has often said that people who abuse animals and treat them as coarse dirt should also be able to obtain a life-long restraining ban. The Minister does not seem to intend to include this life-long restraining ban in the legislative amendment, but only applies a maximum duration of five years, while animal abusers often repeat and repeatedly abuse animals. Sometimes a judge should be able to decide that an animal abuser should never keep animals again. That is why I intend to table a motion calling on the government to allow the life-long prohibition as self-employed measures. Finally, Mr President. It is the vulnerable position of animals that entails moral responsibility that we always take into account the interests of each individual animal in our actions. An important start is the recognition of some basic rights of animals. In order to anchor those rights by law, I will shortly be presenting an initiative proposal on behalf of the Animal Party to include the basic rights of animals in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	Madam President. I try to break the record simultaneously, because I am now debating in two halls. I can't believe you know that. So I'm walking up and down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yes, I understand that, but I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u20	I have a question for the mermaid, to the honourable Member, Arissen. You are for me as a speaker and therefore also for me to make motions. If you are going to table a motion, I would like to co-sign it, because I have been asking for a life-long ban on the keeping of animals by animal shacks since 2006 in this Chamber. I would therefore be very pleased if I could co-sign this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u21	This is the first term. Mrs Arissen will be able to talk to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'd like to make a point. I do not think that women MEPs should be referred to as mermaid here in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u23	I've missed that. Did you say that, Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u24	But then I said: Mr Arissen. Every MP has a nickname with me. That's how I usually address them in e-mails. Men don't have a problem with that, but women do. I think that's a little weird. I find that discriminatory, too. Mr Arissen of the Animal Party, it is now well in the Minutes. Don't worry...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u25	I admit that it had not occurred to me to Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u26	Don't talk through it. Did you really say that, Mr Graus? I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u27	I mentioned the nickname and said immediately after that: Mr Arissen. So I recovered in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u28	I shall now give Mrs Arissen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u29	Let me take this as a great compliment from Mr Graus. I'm glad he wants to co-sign my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. I'm going to Mrs. Buitenweg now. I don't know your nickname, but at least I know you're from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I can say that at school I was sometimes called 'Catastrophy' instead of 'Kathaline', but I do not know if that is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr Graus did not hear it, fortunately. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u33	First of all, I would also like to thank Jamie Jane Bosman very much, also for her presentation here. I thought it was very good to have such an emotional plea so that we really know what this is about. The example she gave of the dog falling off the bridge is of course very visual. This makes it clear that there is animal suffering in real life and that we have a responsibility to ensure that it is done as far as possible. The citizens' initiative has been taken from my heart. An animal is not a thing, it was just said. It has an intrinsic value and if you do not respect that, then there must be an appropriate punishment against it. My group has read the Minister's letter which contains a number of proposals for change in great detail. We consider a number of proposals, such as the restraining ban as an independent measure, to be very positive in themselves, but we still have a number of questions to ask. According to the Minister, a holding ban as an independent measure is only effective if it is subject to structural control and enforcement. I can imagine that very well, but that certainly raises the question of what is needed for this. Who needs extra capacity for this? Can the Minister give an indication of this? I am very concerned about compliance. I want to prevent us from making nice new rules again, but that compliance is forgotten. Mrs Bosman also insisted on compliance. Compliance is, after all, still a major problem with the restraining ban as part of the requirement for a suspended sentence. In practice, it often doesn't work out. For example, I read with surprise that the supervisory authority was not always informed about this in the past. Yeah, if I was going to delegate my work like that, at least I knew for sure that none of it would end up! Last March, the Minister promised change. I quote from a letter of March 2016: "If the probation is appointed as a supervisor, this authority will also be informed about this." Of course, we are very pleased with that, but the question is whether this is going well. Does the prosecution now provide the relevant authority with structural information as to whether the police, the Member, the NVWA or the probation supervisor is correct? At what time can the Minister evaluate this and inform us about it? I'll get back to the plans. In the letter, the Minister states that application of the measure must not lead to an infringement of the family life of the person concerned. I was wondering if he could explain that a little bit more. Because if a person is no longer allowed to keep a dog or not to go to a petting zoo, that naturally has an effect on family life. However, it seems to me desirable that a ban should still be possible. How does the Minister see that? What about the requirement that the person concerned's ability to provide his or her livelihood should not be restricted? If a farmer is guilty of serious animal abuse, is it true that the demand should be that he should no longer be allowed to keep cattle? There has to be some kind of ban on employment. How does the Minister see that? My group very much welcomes the proposal for an indication of behaviour. It can then be advanced that someone running the process does not keep animals. The behavioral indication is valid for 90 days and can be extended three times. The Ministry's website states that it guarantees a restraining ban and supervision prior to the ruling. But is that true? 270 days may be the average time for animal welfare cases to take place, but that means by definition that there are a lot of things that take longer. Isn't it better to have the opportunity to extend until there's a judge's ruling? I come to my final point. Can the Minister state what's going on until the time of the subpoena? In case of a single case, it often takes a year and a half before there is a subpoena. What happens until then to protect animals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u35	Madam President. At the time of the Wilders Group, it was already argued that the rights of animals should be enshrined in the Constitution. That happened together with the colleague of GroenLinks, Mrs Halsema at the time. They have tabled a motion together, in which I have even advised a little bit in the background as a citizen boy. So you should check it out. An animal is a living being with intrinsic values. Many mammals have the same complex nervous system as humans. I am of the opinion that many biologists will also have the same opinion that an animal is much more sensitive and can be much sadder than a human being. Look at an elephant who can mourn for years while people have long forgotten the event. We're not thinking about that. Animals are much more sensitive to pain, stress and anxiety. We have just signed the motion with Mr Arissen of the Animal Party because we too want to see a lifelong ban on the keeping of animals by animal executioners. We want animal executioners to be taken out of society. Preferably I dare say that here in a dungeon, on water and bread. If you're so low as to hurt defenseless creatures, I won't say what I think they're worth. You should be severely punished: in prisons, on water and bread, a lifetime ban on keeping animals and towering fines that relate to the crime. If you are able to do this with animals, you are often able to do horrible things with people, among others with children. There is even a relationship between animal abuse and child pornography, abuse and abuse of women. I asked about that once, and it's all been investigated. That's a fact we can't ignore anymore. But who's about to check the restraining orders? We once asked for 500 animal policemen, the animal police. That initiative has been destroyed by all parties, except the Party for Animals. Now there are parttimers, but they don't have time at all. They have too many job accents. If a MP went with the animal police, he'd see that those people won't make it in two or three days. It's a big seizure. They have often spent two to three days preparing a report: investigating and securing evidence. And the Veterinary Forensics team isn't even financially supported. I talked to the Minister about that last week. My question is who's going to control these restraining orders. The current number of part-time animal policemen are 200 plus one can't even handle the reports of 144 Red an animal. And thank you to my colleague from D66. There was going to be a campaign: 144 Save an animal. Only a third of the people seem to know that this number exists. A lot of people think they should call 14 and not 144. That campaign has been promised. Where's the 144 campaign? There are all these senseless government campaigns. Then why isn't there the campaign 144 Red an animal, if you know how many assholes you can get out of society with that? People should know that. The NVWA is dealing with food scandals and I have been told that it has a very small animal welfare team consisting of 14 to 28 FTE. That team can't handle it either. And then there are the less than twenty men and a horse head of the Member, the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection. A lot of the people on that shift are home from all the shit and stress. Those people can't handle it either. So what's the minister gonna do? When will the Minister finally ensure that these animal police officers face one task force so that they can do their job properly and properly, as long as the Chamber considers that there should be task holders? I told the Minister last week that he would have to come with me sometime to experience what misery these people see. You can't imagine what these people are exposed to. I'd like the minister to come with me for a day with an animal policeman or an animal policewoman. I don't think he'll touch meat for a lifetime after that, and he'll never underestimate what the animal police are worth to our country again. Now that the Veterinary Forensics team doesn't get any money from the government, I wonder how it's gonna survive. They work at their own expense and expense. Dr. Frank of the Gutter and the only veterinary forensic veterinarian in our country: two people who have to investigate all those bodies and bodies. I'm proud of that. The other day, I went to the police to pick up a burnt cat in Venlo and I brought her to these people so they wouldn't have to. It's dull shit. I've been in the car with the smell. The Minister should see that. He'd give those people money to get animal executioners out of society. Do that now, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u37	We intend to table an amendment for the Veterinary Forensic team.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Graus, Mr. De Groot has a question for you. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Madam President. It's D66 mostly about passing it on. If 144 is reported, this should also be passed on to the inspectors of the National Animal Protection Inspection Service. That's what we're here for. My question is about the life-long restraining order. I do not understand that, because I see in the letter on this matter that the necessity, content and duration of the measures are determined by the social interest in restoring and protecting the law in question. So I think it's up to the judge to fill that out. In that sense, I do not understand very well why we are now calling for something that has already been announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u40	That was raised once here in the Chamber, from three years to ten years. And life's not even gonna be imposed. In other countries, they can: impose a life-long restraining ban. Animal executioners are sick idiots. They're recidivists. The facts are there. If you invade animal executioners, you'll find either hemp plantations, or abused children and women, or stolen goods. They're guilty of undermining crime. They're sick idiots. You're out of your mind if you can do that to a defenseless animal. So trust me, they're recidivists and they need to get a life-long ban on keeping animals. It must be after once an animal has been abused end practice: no more animals. That's how it's supposed to be. If a judge does not impose it, then we in the Chamber must ensure that a judge has to impose it. He should have no choice but to impose minimum prison sentences. He's gonna decide how long that prison sentence's gonna last. But we can provide that an animal executioner is to be given at least a prison sentence, instead of a fine and a pat on the back, where he also gets his abused animal home, because I find that scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u41	I see the fire that Mr Graus is talking about, but I would like to know from the Minister how a judge would deal with it. In the end, we live in a rule of law, in which animal abusers will simply have to be tried according to the legislation that is then in place. I am therefore looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u42	But we will then pass that question on to the Minister of Security and Justice, because I do not have to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u43	It's also through you to the Minister, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u45	You're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u46	Oh, I thought there was another question. But that's the successor, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yes, Mr. Van Dam will have the floor in a moment. Thank you, Mr. Graus. I am going now to Mr Van Dam, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the initiator on her initiative and also on her perseverance. Although the debate has been delayed, a round table has already been held. Since the petition was submitted, politics has not stopped and there have been all kinds of developments in the fight against animal cruelty and animal neglect. Think of the already mentioned Animal Law, the task holders, whether they are full-time or part-time, and more research into the phenomenon of animal abuse and the animal abuse. Recently we had a debate here on the report on the nature of the animal. Hopefully, the initiator will see that more and more attention is being paid. I also think that, in the course of time, animals and animal cruelty are viewed in a different way in society. The citizens' initiative focuses on increasing penalties for people who abuse animals. As a CDA, we see that the existing law already offers considerably more scope to impose punishment than is used in practice. Should we agree that there is a need for stricter action, the CDA sees more as a way of adapting the criminal procedure rules than to change the law. I read in the contours note that pre-trial detention is rarely or never applied in animal welfare cases and that there is rarely any deprivation of liberty in the case of convictions. That's just been memorized here. If I take up the directive on criminal proceedings, I can see that in almost all cases a community service is advised and only in the event of repeated repetition in the killing of other people's animals a two-month prison sentence is unconditional. The Animal Law allows a maximum sentence of three years. In view of the initiative, does the Minister see any reason to change the rules on criminal proceedings in this area? Finally, Mr President. Punishment is one thing. I also think that this initiative and the reactions of colleagues in the Chamber drive the assumption that extra punishment actually leads to a change in people's behaviour. I've been a state's attorney for nineteen years. If only it were such a party that a higher sentence would stop people from committing that behavior. I think it should be a combi. Animal cruelty is also learned behavior. It's based on a certain way of thinking, a way of dealing with animals. My question to the Minister is: what other initiatives are being taken, besides the punishment, to get people to change their behaviour? What apprenticeships and what conditional sentences are there in addition to the severe penalties for animal abuse? It's fine that those punishments are there, but only higher punishments and only going over them with the knot makes, I think, not the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u49	I hear Mr Van Dam say in his speech that new laws are less necessary than what we have must be properly observed. Mr Van Dam himself has already referred to his long experience as a prosecutor. My question, therefore, is what is really needed in his view, including from a subsequent cabinet, to ensure that there is genuinely better compliance. What additional investments are needed for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u50	I will have to leave Mrs Buitenweg with a happy expectation of what this will require from the next cabinet. I think there is already a great deal within the existing possibilities. I think there is a great deal to be done to increase the chances of getting caught; this is generally true of crime. Last week or the week before, I forgot, we discussed the nature of the animal. I think that we should investigate precisely what is the reason for animal abusers to do so. That may sound a bit technical and a bit clinical, but I think this will provide a great deal of insight in the search for the right buttons that we need to turn to stop this terrible phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u51	Of course, we can talk for a very long time about what is wrong with the perpetrator, and I have all kinds of footage of that, but the point is that the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary are often not sufficiently aware of the laws and possibilities that exist; that is also in the Minister's letter. This is not enough to ensure compliance. How does Mr Van Dam see that this can really be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think that judges, officers, police officers, and all of us, too, have, over time, been looking at animals and animal abuse in a different way. I expect this phenomenon to happen, and that is why I am enthusiastic about this initiative and the fact that Madame also raises this issue here in the Chamber should, in the end, bring about a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u53	Madam President. I welcome the expertise that my colleague from the CDA has just put forward. He also pointed out that severe punishment does not always lead to solutions, if I understand correctly. That is why I would like to ask him, also in view of his expertise, whether he agrees with me that a recidivist, a repeatedly convicted animal executioner, should be given a life-long ban on keeping animals, because prison time, as Mr Van Dam says, does not always do everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u54	I hear many colleagues here today taking an advance on the restraining order. I think this is going to be discussed at another time. The Minister sent a contour letter and at a later date the bill will come forward here. We are going to look very seriously at that. I'm not going to make any statements about a life-long restraining order right now, whether or not. I would just like to say the following in reply to your comment. You stand here and you cry hell and damnation over these people. I appreciate that because I see your emotion on the subject. I think you've put a lot of movement there, too. Only, I think we should keep looking at why these people are doing this. We need to find buttons that we can turn to reach future generations. Today's animal executioners have children who learn how to deal with this from their parents. Should we lock them up too? I think we still have an expensive duty to discover other things in addition to these severe penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u55	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u56	Madam President. I think that's the beauty of the Dutch House of Representatives. There's a former prosecutor with his expertise and I'm the street fighter for animals, and together we have to make the most of it. But I'm never gonna change myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dam. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u58	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Bosman on her ability to generate so much attention for her initiative. My compliments, too, on the way she served the chair here, as if she did it more often. In its wisdom, the Chamber has decided that the procedure seems to be that the petitioner is presenting and the Minister answers the difficult questions, but I can imagine that Mrs Bosman would be able to answer those difficult questions as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u60	That's a nice compliment for Mrs. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u61	Sure. With me on the fridge hangs a fridge magnet with the spell on it: anyone who thinks that animals have no soul has never looked a dog in the eye. Our dogs have always been interested in the fridge, but since that spell's been there, even more. By the way, it belongs to Victor Hugo, but of course you knew that right away. That spell illustrates a discussion that apparently took place in the 19th century between people who said "an animal is a thing" and people who said "no, an animal really has its own value and feeling and must be treated with respect." Fortunately, in recent years we have made an important movement in the Netherlands not to treat animals as things but to treat them with respect and to lay down legal rules. Then, of course, it is always a matter of political weighting and political preference which measures you consider appropriate. I will deal with the questions that have been asked about the measure of punishment later on. However, I believe that we can all see that there is much more attention, fortunately, to animal welfare and protection against abuse. In that context, before the summer, I sent a letter announcing legislation. In that letter, I propose a number of measures, such as the possibility of imposing a behavioral instruction, the possibility of making a restraining order immediately enforceable and the criminalisation of harassment, not only against humans but also against other animals. I tasted a little disappointment with Mr De Groot because such a legislative process takes a long time. I get that disappointment sometimes, but when you go through legislation, you always come home from a cold carnival later, because you either encounter implementation problems or die in court. A judge will also check on higher regulations and international conventions. So it is not that I do not want to go any faster, but it is that we must all want the legislation we are making to be enforceable and ultimately have the effect that we want to have. This was the general introduction. I shall now turn to the specific questions raised, first of all by Mr Futselaar of the Socialist Party. His first question was how we promote that there is also knowledge about the treatment of animal cruelty and specifically about the Animal Law, which has not been in force for so long. In the police department, we have the task officers. At the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a specific contact person at each prosecutor's office where detectives, including officers with a task accent, can contact us on animal abuse cases. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently developing a specific course to train its own employees in what the Animal Law means in practice for their work. A national animal welfare platform has also been established, in which the contacts that each parquet has come together and exchange information. In this way, the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office really guarantees that there is knowledge and attention to the subject of "animal abuse." As far as I am concerned, Mr Futselaar asked whether the independent restraining ban, which was one of the measures I announced in the letter before the summer, was the final piece of legislation in relation to animal abuse. I do believe that the proposals in the letter complement the package of legal instruments. I do not see any need for any more legal instruments at the moment, otherwise I would have included them in that letter. Of course there will be an extensive examination of the legislative proposals. I did not hear here for the first time the suggestion of a life-long restraining ban, which I shall go into in a moment, but in my opinion, the government should be sufficiently equipped with these instruments. Mr De Groot commented on everyday practice in the enforcement of the law and the prevention of animal cruelty and specifically addressed the communication between the services concerned. I think he did so partly on the basis of the research reports we sent to the Chamber before the summer. These research reports show that progress has been made and a great deal of good work is being done, but also that the transfer of police in particular to the Member should be made more flexible. That is also why I announced that I would launch a pilot this autumn to improve communication between the Member and the police. Mr De Groot asked to comment specifically on the Member's statement that they had received fewer cases in the past year. He also asked me what I'm going to do about it. As part of the pilot we are conducting this autumn, we will explore with the Member what might be behind this signal. It is not the case, however, that this means that the Member is now turning his thumbs for this reason. It means they have more time for surveillance checks. I think that this autumn we should also look at whether the signal is, on balance, a deterioration or, on the contrary, that there is more room for preventive work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u62	What I understand is that the Member has more time for re-checking, which is of course good...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u64	... but it's also mainly about regional differences. In some regions, the flow dries up reports, which means that it is reported but nothing is done, which, of course, is very annoying for those who report and also undermines confidence in the whole system and in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u65	I understand. If you notice that nothing or little is happening to your reports, then that is very demotivating. I would like to get back to it, but that will be me or my successor after the turn of the year, and I should really like to say that when we have further developed that pilot with the Member.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u66	In addition to this, the Minister may be able to respond after Christmas. By the way, there are only a few Members. We'll pretend it's an entire army, but there's only a few of them. There aren't 20 yet; I think it's 15 or 16 people. But these people are not resilient. They don't have police clearance. Then they'll have to go check on an idiot who's been abusing animals and often people. The practice shows that a Member often does not dare to enter the yard alone without animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u68	So I would have liked to have a reaction to that. The animal police must be there, because animal executioners are sick idiots and dangerous people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u69	When it comes to conferring police powers, we must be careful. The police have a very strict selection, and that is because the powers, the most important of which is the monopoly of violence, can only be granted to people who have passed the selection and have received training for it. Mr Graus is undoubtedly right that it may be that a member's representative or another investigative service finds itself in a threatening situation. I do not think we should go to the situation where every inspector, whether he is the Member, the Food and Consumer Authority or the Labour Inspectorate, we have in the Netherlands quite a few supervisory bodies, accompanied by an agent, have to enter a business site by default. That is not possible and will soon lead to escalation. Of course, if there is a threat of violence, there is one of the worst situations we know in the Netherlands. Threatening by force is scandalous in any case, but violence against government workers, people who do their work on our behalf and carry out checks, is being charged extra heavily and is also subject to extra heavy penalties. Then the police and the Public Prosecutor will not be reluctant to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u70	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yeah, finally. I fully agree with the Minister. We have even tabled a motion to see police dogs and horses as special officials when it comes to violence. Can the Minister take this into account in his reply? We do not always see how often an animal policeman or woman has to accompany a member of the Member? It seems to be very common. Again, I have a lot of contact with animal police officers at the front. They are very often called to help by the Member. The Member is therefore not self-defeating and has no police powers. You know what I'm afraid of? That the people of the Member will no longer dare to go into the yard if they are not allowed to call in the help of a policeman or woman. They'll say, "We don't want to go." They also have wives and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr President, I have dealt specifically with this. I have great respect for the work of the Member's staff. There is a large number of inspections in the Netherlands. They often have to do with angry and unreasonable people, but fortunately not always with violence. But for that reason, we cannot give everyone full police authority. That would result in us having far fewer inspectors, because those criteria are very strict. Mr Graus also knows, I assume, that there are more people who lose weight in the selection at the Police College than are admitted. So you would make the threshold for hiring people very high. I think that two points are crucial: firstly, that, at the moment when someone is completely out of line, the police are available and, secondly, that the people who are crossing the line are actually being punished extra. You stay your hands off your fellow man anyway, but you stay your hands off people who come to work on behalf of the government, on behalf of all of us. Mrs Lodders commented on the level of punishment and gave examples of the imposition of community service and the level of fines. My picture is that you see a development in the heaviness of the punishments imposed. That's where the two investigations I sent to the Chamber also point out. I think it is very good that in the Netherlands an independent body is usually that the independent judge and sometimes the Public Prosecutor's Office, but then the perpetrator can go to court to have that checked, within the scope we provide as legislator, how high the penalty is in that particular case. But the development in punishment is one of more severe punishments. This also fits in with the development with which I began my speech, namely that we have fortunately become increasingly aware in the Netherlands that animal cruelty is too common and unacceptable. Animals cannot stand up for themselves, so as legislators and regulators we must ensure that animals are protected. On the basis of the development as I see it now, I see no reason to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u73	Of course, I have also read the inquiries that the Minister has sent to the Chamber. I still have a certain feeling. There is a maximum penalty of around €20,000, but the average penalty imposed is around €1,500. There may be a tendency to do so. I don't think that's a very terrifying amount. Fortunately, in this Chamber over the past period, we have also greatly increased the fines in the Warenwet, so that it is less attractive to make that offense. How long do we have to wait until that development reaches a more acceptable level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u74	What is acceptable is not objective. This is criminal law. We lay down in the law what the maximum penalties are, but it is up to the Public Prosecutor to demand and ultimately to the judge to determine how high that penalty is. You will soon come to the very fundamental discussion about minimum penalties, of which the Chamber has always indicated by a large majority that it does not wish to do so. I would therefore count here the blessings of the development that is taking place, together with what I have just outlined, the efforts made by the Public Prosecutor's Office to anchor in the organisation that there is that expertise and attention to the handling of animal cruelty. I would not go looking for an opportunity to influence the level of punishment further from a political point of view. I don't see the outcome of that search so much for me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u75	The Minister certainly does not hear me pleading for minimum punishment. I made that point in my speech. I really want to stay away from that. Again, an average penalty is very difficult to define, but I do hope that the Minister agrees with me that an average penalty of €1,640 is very low and does not have the deterrent effect that we are aiming for. I understand the Minister's undertaking that he will closely monitor the efforts that are currently being made and that this will come back again. We must then assess whether this will ultimately lead to an average increase in fines in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u76	I agree with Mrs Lodder that, as a cabinet, we should continue to report regularly on the application of criminal law, especially in the case of animal abuse. I hope that Mrs Lodders of the Minister for Security and Justice understands that he is not going to judge the penalties imposed by an independent judge, because then I am going to be in an area where I should not go. Mrs Arissen and Mr Graus asked why there would be no life-long restraining order. At least the letter on the legislation I come up with says that I am not advocating a life-long restraining order. It is a logical legal principle that penalties are proportionate to the crime committed and, where possible, a comparison is made between different types of crime and the imposition of a penalty. A life sentence The word'says' is a very severe punishment. In recent years, there has been a lot of discussion as to whether life imprisonment relates to international conventions. That is what the judgment was about: no, there must also be interim possibilities to break that open. A life sentence is therefore widely regarded as a very heavy instrument and also raises an enforcement question. I can see Mrs Buitenweg at the interrupting microphone, because she asked for that too. It's about tracking people for life. These people will simply live somewhere and will then have to be checked periodically. This is also extremely complicated in the implementation. These two factors together mean that at least I am not coming up with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Minister is right to say that, under international law, it is not impossible to have a life sentence, but that there must be a procedure that allows for a reduction in the sentence, which still offers a kind of perspective. That is an international obligation. The imposition of a life sentence with that procedure is therefore not prohibited. Is it not possible to have that option present? There may be cases where society is very shocked by certain forms of abuse. We are talking about forms of abuse that are so appalling that we feel that it should be banned for a person for life to keep animals. Can the Minister explain why the court is not given the opportunity to impose it, for example in the event of a recidivism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u78	You're asking the Minister of Security and Justice to write this down in a law. I know Mrs Buitenweg as a great defender of constitutional principles, which also monitors whether the legislation we are proposing and implementing here in the Netherlands fits within what is national and international practice. You may expect an honest answer from me. What if we wrote it down in a law? Because a law is ultimately a piece of text, but it has a huge scope. You can remove that sentence from the word processor, but it is very unlikely that it will be a proportionate measure in practice, if you put him into the law already. Your Chamber has the right of amendment. You can talk to me for a long time, but you can table an amendment yourself later. I assume that a successor will also consider that in practice it will be seen as too heavy a measure by a national court. If a lawyer will refer it to an international judge, it will also be seen by that international judge as an excessive measure. When you see that coming, you can expect me as a minister to point out that I expect that. That's why I don't announce it. But let's say you want to table an amendment yourself. You have the right of amendment. You can make a whole law, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u79	Clear. Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u80	What I find difficult is that it reduces the possibility of imposing a life-long restraining ban in exceptional cases. I agree with the Minister that it is quite exceptional, but let's say that someone has been convicted time and time again for very gruesome abuse. These are such exceptional situations that I would say that it should be possible to impose a permanent restraining order on someone. The Minister is quite right to say that only in exceptional cases will the judge judge that. I think so too, but in those exceptional cases it must be possible for the judge to judge the case in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u81	I think this question has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yeah, we gave the answer to this. If the Chamber wishes to table an amendment, it is open to it. The advice of this minister, but I also think that a next minister will be able to say that in practice it will hardly be applied by the judge and that, if applied, it will fall to the detriment of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always nice for a ruler to point out to us our right of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u85	The Minister expresses his doubts as to whether it is proportionate. But this balance of proportionality is primarily a matter for a judge, isn't it? That's what you need that opportunity for. I do not understand the Minister's reasoning when he says: I have to judge here on proportionality. In my view, that is not the job of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u86	Then we could always put "life-snake" in the law, regardless of the crime, and wish the judge every success in imposing the penalty. I think it is up to the legislator to seriously weigh what is proportionate. You're asking me as a minister. I'll give you a ruling on that. You're a co-legislator. So I can only indicate what proposal the government will come up with. That's clear. I do not seem to have to draw your attention to your right of amendment, but you already know what advice the government will give.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u87	I notice we're repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u88	The Minister's challenge is clear. I think the response will be as well, but I leave that to Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u89	I fully and wholeheartedly support the previous two speakers from the SP and GroenLinks. In addition to this, and without wishing to repeat it, the purpose of the restraining ban is precisely to deny animal abusers the right to keep an animal, so that they cannot go back to mistreating animals. The Animal Party advocates the possibility of a life-long restraining ban. The chance of recidivism is very great; that is what the Minister himself writes in the contour letter. How is it possible to limit this recidivism if there is a five-year limitation to the restraining ban? And after five years, how will the Minister protect the defenseless animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u90	This question is no different from other penalties. I can call an entire battery of horrible crimes for which you don't get a life sentence in the Netherlands. For burglary, but also for murder, you don't get a life sentence soon. It only happens once or twice. In general, the question of proportionality is at issue, and also the question of whether we should give someone a second chance. Again, if the Chamber would like to lay this down in a law, then it can do so. I only give you the impression, as may be expected from a minister of security and justice, that in practice it is likely to lead to disappointment for the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u91	Finally, Mrs Arissen, because there are real repeated arguments. I don't think that's much use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have a feeling the Minister is confusing punishment and measure. I just heard a colleague say that behind me right. It is particularly terrible and horrible that people are given the chance to continue to abuse innocent animals over and over again. All we want is the possibility of imposing a life-long restraining order. Of course, this is judged by the courts on proportionality. But we want to keep that possibility open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u93	This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u94	The bill is coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u95	I can see the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u96	Law enforcement is still in progress. Of course, the Chamber has the right to amend it. Mr Graus is going to make a completely new point. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u97	Animal cruelty was just compared to burglary, but mistreating defenseless creatures like children and animals is the worst and most disgusting thing there is. I think we shouldn't call that all in one breath. We are asking for a life-long restraining order for an animal executioner. It is indeed a measure, and I am told it here. I hope, then, that the Minister will be able to get over his heart one day. Let us be honest: we are the legislators here. We determine the frameworks here. The Chamber is co-legislator and auditor, and we must also stand up for defenseless animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u98	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u99	Because whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story, animals were there before humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you. I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u101	Yes. Then I come to Mrs Buitenweg's question. It asks what measures have been taken to improve compliance with the restraining bans imposed. She also referred to the investigation received by the Court, which showed that in practice these prohibitions were sometimes imposed without proper monitoring. It is up to the Public Prosecutor to ask the judge to designate a body to carry out that supervision. This may be the police, the Member or the Food and Consumer Protection Authority, depending on whether it is a professional offence or a crime or an offence or crime committed by a private person. In addition, probation can play a role in this when there is also social problems and there is guidance for them. I thought that was what Mrs Buitenweg was referring to. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore informs the relevant organisation that the supervisory authority has been appointed. The Public Prosecutor's Office must then be notified again when that restraining order has been infringed, so that measures can be taken. In practice, at least in a number of cases, this has not been completely flawless. This is also the reason why, in the debate we had last week, I indicated that various parties involved in the fight against animal cruelty will continue to develop and strengthen their cooperation with each other this autumn. That comes on top of what I just told you, what the D.A. is doing. Mrs Buitenweg asked for a preview of the announced law. She asked what capacity is needed to enforce the restraining order. To be honest, I should like to refer to this in the explanatory memorandum of the law, because that is part of the care I have already spoken about to Mr De Groot. Mrs Buitenweg also asked what possibility there would be for a restraining order until the time of subpoena. It also discussed the period that could then be allowed to pass. The proposed scheme provides for a period of 90 days which can be extended three times, up to 270 days. This is a significant period of time, and an arrangement such as this cannot be unlimited. That is, in fact, another constitutional principle, because at some point the case must really be brought back to court. Otherwise, you're out of court creating a life-long restraining order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u102	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u103	I understand very well that it is ultimately a matter for the judge to do so, because you cannot impose a factual measure without a judicial test. I understand that this has to be agreed, but the problem is that certainly not all lawsuits take place within the maximum of 270 days. Can the period not be extended, so that the restraining order will continue until the judge can decide for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u104	Even then you come back to a constitutional principle. If you allow a much wider extension, we're not talking about an unlimited extension, in fact, the incentive for the Public Prosecutor to bring the case to justice in good time. Now these 270 days mean that the prosecution will have to refer the case to the court within that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u105	Can I at least note that there is no mention of what is on the website, namely that the restraining ban and its supervision are guaranteed prior to the ruling? It is insured for a maximum of 270 days, but it may well be that there is no restraining order and that someone can keep animals for some time before they are judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u106	I don't remember what's on the website. Then I'll have to get there first... Which website, by the way? There are many of them. I'd look into it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u107	It is the website of the Ministry of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u108	You say that as if I've memorized it, but I'd like to confess that days pass by that I don't look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u109	I can imagine. I would certainly recommend that. But I referred to that in my chat because it said on that website that the restraining ban and its supervision are assured. I was wondering if that was adequate. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u110	Then I'm gonna go back and see if that text fits with the bill I'm coming up with. Mrs Buitenweg had asked about the phrase in the letter that a restraining ban should not constitute an infringement of family life or of the possibilities for maintenance. This type of state-of-law test is also carried out with great regularity: here, in foreign law and in all kinds of places. We are about to have a repeat of the interruption just now, but here too, I think it is up to the Minister of Security and Justice to point out that what we are discussing here always moves within our own legal frameworks and international legal frameworks. We are, of course, trying to imagine a number of concrete cases in legislation. Suppose a parent is convicted of animal abuse and is restrained, but his child wants to keep an animal. Well, then there's such a family life situation. And indeed, if a person lives on livestock farming and that is made totally impossible, then a judge will have to consider whether it is totally impossible to make it proportional to the crime that has been committed. That's how our legal system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u111	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Buitenweg. However, I believe that this debate was extended last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u112	However, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u113	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u114	The Minister is in favour of the rule of law. That is very good, but my point is that in the letter we have seen, there is no question of a weighting by the judge as there should be. It states that the application of the measure must not lead to an infringement of family life. In doing so, the Minister takes an advance on what the judge's opinion should be. My point is that it should be up to the judge to judge this, and that it should therefore be possible to infringe family life. But it's up to the judge to determine whether that's proportionate. In this sense, the letter could therefore be better adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u115	This is the repetition of moves I was just afraid of. I think it is up to the Minister to point this out. That's not making me stand for the state of law. There is no democracy here. We agreed on that. And we also agreed on the rule of law. It is a matter of making legislation here with each other, which is very far-reaching. I think it is the role of the Minister to indicate the limits within which this should be done. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Graus asked if there would be another campaign to draw attention to the number 144. With the type of campaign that used to be used, of the P.O. Box 51 commercials, we stopped a bit anyway. In fact, other methods are much more effective when it comes to current television behaviour and social media use. 144, for example, also has a Facebook page. The actual use of the number 144 is high. There have been over 60,000 calls this year. So that doesn't give the impression that people don't know how to find it. Here too, we are holding our finger on the pulse, but I do not see the need for immediate action at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u118	This is a promise made by one of the minister's predecessors. There was supposed to be a new campaign. That is what I have been promised in this Chamber. We're not selling second-hand cars here, so I'm assuming that if it's promised, it will. Besides, only a third of the people really seem to know that the number is 144. Most people, including journalists, talk about 114 all the time. And then they're angry that no one's picking up. Two thirds of people don't seem to know that at all. So the number of reports may be in excess of 100,000, as in the first year. There was a campaign back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr Graus is talking about a promise. I'll take his word for it, but I'd like to check it out first. And I often find it a pity that not 100 percent of people know anything. But that percentage is not reached on almost all subjects. So that doesn't immediately indicate that we have to worry about this familiarity. Again, the song gets a lot of calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u120	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u121	Almost everyone knows it's 911. But it seems only a third know it's 144. That was investigated at the time. Let it be a little more than a third. So something really has to be done about that name recognition. Take a look in the papers. How many journalists I don't have to touch because they're writing 114. So even the journalists who follow the debates here don't know. So, please, let's make 144 more public and get the number of reports above 100,000. Then we'll get more animal shit out of society! And if the minister doesn't do it for the animals, do it for the by-catches you find in an animal executioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u122	I don't like the suggestion that I don't think the subject is important, because it's behind this. Yes, you did, Mr. Graus. You said if the minister doesn't want to do it for the animals, he'll do it for something else. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u123	Please continue. I think you were in the middle of a rounding. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u124	I am also going to answer Mr Van Dam's questions. He's entitled to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes, that was the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u126	I have already answered the question put by Mr Graus on the control of the restraining bans in the direction of Mrs Buitenweg. Mr Graus, like last week, asked for resources for the Veterinary Forensic Team. I also indicated to you at the time that we cannot find money for this in the budget at the moment, no matter how beautiful their work is. Mr. Van Dam asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u127	Very briefly, Mr Graus. You don't need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u128	Perhaps not, because I'm going to sign motions with Mr Futselaar, Mrs Arissen and Mr De Groot. So I don't have to file my own motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u129	Okay, but short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u130	Following that debate, the Minister is right that we talked about it last week. The people of the Veterinary Forensic Team reported to me. They say they do get orders from the national police, which this minister is responsible for. I am grateful for that and happy for it, but it is not possible that the police of this minister should take orders from our Veterinary Forensic Team and then say: but you have to pay for it yourself? That's impossible, isn't it? If I have to do something for the police to do work, to secure DNA and collect evidence, also for the justice system, then surely the Minister cannot say: yes, but then you have to see for yourself how you get the money? That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr Graus is asking for extra money. That is often asked; that sounds familiar to me. Sometimes it does. I am one of the lucky ministers who have been given extra money in the next year's budget on important issues, if the Chamber also cancels this in the budgetary procedure. But money is very scarce and charities are numerous. Unfortunately, I don't have any extra money for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u132	They get zero, zero euros, they get nothing! That's true. Have the Minister check it out. They get zero euros. Those two researchers live on gifts and on their own money. You can't do that if they're working for the police. They do work for the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u133	With this explanatory statement by Mr Graus, I do not suddenly have any extra money available. Mr Van Dam asked if I see any reason to tighten up the criminal proceedings directive of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That criminal action directive has been tightened twice in recent years, in 2011 and 2015. The procedure, as Mr Van Dam probably knows, is not that the Minister instructs the directive to be amended but that the Public Prosecutor's Office proposes it to me, also in the context of the separation of powers. So that happened quite recently twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u134	Today's initiative is about the punishments going up. I've heard the Minister say before that it doesn't suit him to comment on the way the judge deals with animal cruelty. I think that's a fair point. I also understand that the Public Prosecutor's Office is making proposals to you, but would it not be appropriate, on this point, to take a little more lead, within the existing legal possibilities, when you hear this initiative and your observation that there is a development going on? I am not asking for an increase in the legal capacity, but I am asking for an increase in the policy. I think that the Minister can be a little more active in this than waiting for the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u135	That's a big deal. Because that means that in this case, why not in other cases, the Minister is immediately going to ask in a power of the Public Prosecutor who has been deliberately put at a distance. This calls for a more fundamental debate than only in the case of animal cruelty. It certainly doesn't fit in with a missionary minister. Mr Van Dam rightly asked, also from his experience as an officer, whether we could punish by other measures. Because unfortunately they have less than we would like to have a preventive effect. Could we combat animal cruelty by measures other than punishment? Indeed, a measure linked to a conviction for animal abuse can be imposed by the court. That could be a behavioral course or a class dealing with violence. This is all the more relevant when there is a combination of problems. Mr Graus was right to point that out. Especially when parole is in the picture, it is possible and in practice it is also possible to look not only at penalties, but also at additional, especially training measures. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. One motion should do that, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal cruelty is a subject that lives strongly in society, especially where there is the impression that animal abusers are not or are being penalised too mildly;]] [[Considering that since the start of the citizens' initiative "an animal is not a thing" a number of things have been legally improved, while other improvements, such as an independent restraining ban, are expected;]] [[calls on the Government to send this latest bill to the Chamber as soon as possible;]] [[expresses its appreciation for the initiators of "an animal is not a thing";]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of what further steps can be taken, including in the preventive sphere, to further reduce animal cruelty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34437-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u138	35 seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u139	Nice, thank you very much. I shall now turn to Mr De Groot, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to look closely at the way in which reports are now handled in the pilot. In support of this, however, a motion to lay down this commitment properly for the public authorities as well. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas police, veterinarians and supervisors have an important role to play in identifying, maintaining and registering animal abuse and neglect cases;]] [[noting that the original tasks of the task holders have been significantly expanded;]] [[noting that the number of notifications to the Stichting Landelijke Inspectiedienst Dierenbescherming (the LID) by task holders is falling in large parts of the country;]] [[noting that the cooperation arrangements, task arrangements and associated information and communication arrangements under the 2011 Animal Enforcement Cooperation Agreement therefore appear to be under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure implementation practice and enforcement in the development of new cooperation arrangements in such a way that at least the reports of animal abuse and neglect can be adequately addressed at any time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34437-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I have already indicated in the first term that the welfare of animals and their maintenance are becoming increasingly important for the people in the country, but certainly also for this house. This has been confirmed by the steps taken in the past period and the measures already announced. I would like to say once again to Mrs Bosman that she too has certainly contributed to this. Mr. Chairman. I have expressed my concerns to the Minister about the level of the average penalties and fines imposed. The Minister has indicated that he sees a trend of higher fines. In view of the interruption debate, I assume that there will be no additional measures at the moment. I would like to point out here that we will follow these trends. If we discuss the bill here in this Chamber, we would like to have the opportunity to come back to it again so that we can see how that trend is developing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purpose of the restraining ban is to prevent animals from being abused or neglected again by preventing people from keeping (again) animals;]] [[noting that a restraining order as a judicially independent (freedom-limiting) measure will be possible;]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure optimum maintenance of animal welfare and the prevention of recurrence, a restraining ban with a maximum duration of five years cannot be sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the imposition of a life-long restraining order as an independent measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen, Mr Futselaar, Mr Graus and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34437-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u144	No, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators and the Chamber for the collegiality. As you can see, we have been working together again for the benefit of defenseless animals, and I am pleased to see that. I hope that the Minister will be able to come back as far as I am concerned, because I have nothing against this minister, Mr Forensic, that the Veterinary Team is now working at its own expense, and that the national police officials' animal welfare officers, 'the animal police' in popular terms, cannot handle the work because of the many tasks they have to do. The Minister will really have to do something with that, because those people are ruining it. They can't handle the work anymore. That's just a cry for help. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Graus. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thank you, Madam President. In any case, I hope that the initiator has seen today, but also at other times, that the Chamber takes this issue seriously. There has been a lot of use of this debate this afternoon to talk about the restraining ban, whereas that bill is actually still to come to the Chamber. That is why I, as CDA representative, did not say much about it this afternoon. I would like to give the Minister another look at the distinction between punishment and measure in the preparation of that bill. We talked about proportionality. This is absolutely the case in the case of a sentence, but less in the case of a measure. Perhaps that could be discussed again. Finally, a reflection. I can see that in a subject where emotions can rise up, the language used here in the Chamber knows its way. I have never heard the word "stupid" appear so often in a debate. I am going to think again myself whether this reflection of emotions is actually a contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr Graus feels addressed, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u148	It's very funny, Madam President. When I was a candidate member of the Chamber in 2006, I used that word once and half of the Netherlands fell over me. A few years later, Mr Balkenende may well have used the word "stupidity" or "stupidity." Then I said in the press: "Look at this. When I said it a few years ago, everybody fell over me. And now the Prime Minister is using it and you can't hear anything or anyone." That's often the case. I'm often a trendsetter here with that street language.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u149	That's the problem, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u150	I would also like to contribute to this trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u151	... that certain words or language are taken over without thinking about it. Thank you very much, Mr Van Dam. I see the Minister can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr Futselaar's motion and Mr Graus' motion for a resolution 3 calls on the government to send the bill to the Chamber as soon as possible, expresses its appreciation for the initiators of "An animal is not a thing" and invites the Government to inform the Chamber of what further steps can be taken, including in the preventive sphere, to further reduce animal cruelty. If I may combine that last request with the legislative proposal, so in the explanatory statement, I can leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 4. tabled by Mr De Groot, the Government requests that the development of new cooperation arrangements ensure implementation practice and enforcement in such a way that at least the reports of animal abuse and neglect can be adequately addressed at any time. I can support the direction of the motion, but the wording 'at all times' gives rise to an expectation that the police will never be able to live up to, whether it is bike theft, burglary or animal abuse. Unfortunately. If you could take that out, Mr De Groot, then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u153	I'll change the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u154	Then this motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u155	The motion in part No. 5, by Mrs Arissen and others, calls on the Government to make it possible to impose a life-long restraining order as an independent measure. It won't surprise the Chamber that I'm deposing this motion. Mr Van Dam asked me to comment on the difference between punishment and measure. I realize that there is a difference in law, but for those who suffer it will not always be so; it will simply see the measure as punishment or as part of the punishment. But knowing that this discussion is coming, I will go into detail, again in the explanatory statement, as to why at least the government is not proposing a life-long restraining ban. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the debate on the citizens' initiative 'An animal is not a thing'. Once again, I would like to thank Jamie Jane very much for her passionate and committed contribution to this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I will also inform the Chamber by letter. At least it came from your heart, Mrs. Bosman. Your message came across well. Thank you for this initiative. I would also like to thank the Minister.
