ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed in detail the Environment Act-AMvBs. In addition, a large number of motions have been tabled. A total of nine were due to be put to the vote today. I would like to do my part by holding the motion printed under the letter W, and I would like to put the motions printed under the letters V and X together. I have a new text for that. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Bikker, Mr Vos, Mr Teunissen and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for initiators that the public authorities provide prompt and foreseeable and foreseeable conclusions on whether or not something should be done;]] [[noting that all complex and environmentally hazardous matters are regulated by European directives or EIA and are subject to the extended preparatory procedure, which provides for a formalised regime for the submission of views on the draft decision;]] [[Whereas for other cases the main rule is the regular preparation procedure;]] [[Whereas the regular procedure has sufficient possibilities to provide an appropriate opportunity to submit views on the received application for authorisation, in so far as it is not provided for in consultation with the applicant in advance, on the basis of a draft application;]] [[Whereas for cases which are otherwise complex or controversial and which are likely to have concerns from several interested parties, the extended procedure may provide benefits due to the formalised system for submitting views and the absence of an objection phase;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to provide for the extended preparatory procedure to be applied at the request of the applicant by means of an introduction law;]] [[whereas a procedure for an out-of-plan deviation from the zoning plan is reduced from 26 weeks to 8 weeks, but there should be careful handling with sufficient possibilities for participation;]] [[requests the Government,]] [[provide in addition that the competent authority may also apply the extended procedure with the consent of the applicant;]] [[to encourage municipalities in the procedure on out-of-plan derogations, stakeholders other than the government and the applicant, such as local residents, to provide appropriate participation by including this in the note of explanation of the Environment Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-AB]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u2	At Mrs Meijer's request, I propose that her motion (33118, letter W) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u5	Since the motion-Meijer c.s. (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u6	Madam President. The group of D66 would like to keep the Motion-Steens under the letter Y until the introduction debate on the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u7	At the request of Mrs Stienen, I propose that her motion (33118, letter Y) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u8	I understand that the motion printed under the letter Z simply remains in the vote. I give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. As is well known in this Chamber, the VVD adheres to a strict interpretation of the concept of "motion." A motion is the ultimate means of moving the cabinet to pay extra attention to something or to supplement the policy. If I have heard it correctly, I have also read the Acts on this issue. Last week the Minister indicated in the debate that there will be a good zero reading, that this will be part of the implementation support programme and that the First Chamber will be informed in detail as soon as possible. I would like to use this third term to make it clear to the Minister that this only makes sense if this is done on the basis of a serious monitoring programme. If the Minister also pays attention to this, I withdraw this motion on behalf of my group. It's the motion under the letters AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u10	Mrs Klip, I understand that you are still waiting for the Minister's answer to your question. Who else? Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. With an apology, I thought I had just received the message that the votes on the motions would be postponed until next week. If that is not the case, I would also like to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u12	We have a third term now. There have been a few speakers in that. I will give the Minister the opportunity to respond in third term. So I think it is still premature to discuss this further. I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the third deadline, which has led to some more compact motions that we can do better with, and to the retention of some motions. I welcome the Court's cooperation in this area. I'm responding to the Meijer c.s. motion. under letter AB. This motion calls on the government to do two things. First, the introduction law provides that the competent authority may also apply the extended authorisation procedure with the consent of the applicant. The regular procedure remains the starting point, but the competent authority can now also take the initiative to proceed to a more extensive procedure in coordination with the applicant. I think that's a better description than last time. The latter is also an important starting point, because in the end we believe that citizens and businesses should be served by the public authorities more quickly and also more rapidly, and that they should also know in advance which procedure is applicable. That's what's gonna be done with this. Secondly, the government is asked to encourage municipalities to provide other stakeholders, e.g. residents, with their participation in deviating activities by including this in the explanatory memorandum. With the regular procedure there are indeed possibilities for this. We shall therefore include this in the explanatory memorandum. As I said in the debate, I do not see any major advantages in the motion compared to what we had in mind. However, now that the motion has been amended, I do not see any insurmountable objections either. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I take note that the other motions have been held. Finally, I would like to say to Mrs Klip that we need a serious monitoring programme. I wouldn't dare set up a non-serious monitoring program. So I will certainly meet the desire of the VVD group to set up a solid program with zero measurements and later measurements, so that we can keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u15	For the record, I would like to say that the Meijer c.s. are merged with the letters V and X. The new motion gets the letters AB. I note that two motions have been held, that a motion has been withdrawn and that an amended motion has been tabled. I propose that we vote on the remaining motions next week. It concerns the motions with the letters R, S, T, U, AB and Z (33118).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-6.u16	You will be given an overview of that.
