ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I call Mr Rog. The rules of the game are well known. Speaking time is two minutes, including the submission of possible motions, which are preferably short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Hans Kamps made a lot of money with the Werkschool by channeling money from the government to his own bv's. The same Hans Kamps and Hans de Boer each made 1 million euros to the College after the government had previously subsidised this. For the CDA Group, this is morally reprehensible. Does the Minister also consider this to be an unjustified enrichment? Does she believe that the profits that Hans Kamps and Hans de Boer have earned should be repaid to the government? This Minister is the Minister of Diversity. That is what she is always pursuing in her policy, but she always chooses the same people in framework agreements and grants. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that educational brokers have earned 1 million euro per person through intransparent constructions at the professional college co-financed by the Ministry of OCW through a private deal and that OCW grants have been redirected to their own e.g.]] [[Whereas the conduct of these educational brokers is morally reprehensible;]] [[Whereas lessons have been drawn in terms of grant management and transparency in public-private partnerships, but education brokers can still be subsidised by OCW on the one hand and private profits on the other, as in the case of the College of Appeals, on the other;]] [[calls on the Government, in the case of grants, to agree that if the recipient of the subsidy generates private profits, an equal share of the subsidy amount will be reimbursed to OCW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog, Mr Siderius and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Some time ago we talked extensively about the history of the colleges and the School of Work. I have tried to explain to you that I accept my responsibility when it comes to subsidies, but that I cannot and will not take responsibility for what beneficiaries of subsidies, regardless of those subsidies, undertake activities, whether they suffer profit or loss. That falls outside the scope of my responsibility. I also think it goes too far to say now that there is unjustified enrichment. I can only conclude that the agreed activities have been developed with the grants. Where, in the end, subsidies were not well spent, as at the Work School, they were repaid. I would also like to say that I continue to strive for diversity. That is sometimes uncomfortable; so is my department. I try to look for diversity in all appointments, and in urgent, complex themes. This means that I do not always want the same people, but that I seek diversity from society. I'll keep doing that. I have made it clear in general consultation that both diversity and transparency are the lessons that Mr Mohandis asked for, as far as I am concerned, to take into account in the follow-up to subsidies. Then I come to the motion-Rog c.s. in piece No. 307. It calls on the Government to agree, in the case of grants, that when the recipient of the subsidy generates private profits, an equal share of the subsidy amount is reimbursed to OCW. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. In the context of the discussion we have had, I cannot see that private profits have been made by the grant recipient with grants. At the time, we provided grants for teaching programmes or teaching materials. That teaching material has been developed and then it has been publicly accessible to everyone. Now there are people, the people you mention or others, who know how to use that teaching program to interest others in getting access to cooperation with third parties, in this context, for example, the employment agencies. However, it is not for me to make a judgment on this. That is the result of public-private cooperation, which, fortunately, is also advocated by your Chamber, I say. At the Group of Experts there was a private party offering services to educational institutions. The educational institutions make use of this or do not use it. This also applies to publishers of educational material, and it is also the case with other subsidies we provide. We grant all kinds of subsidies to SMEs for export programmes. We have subsidies for start-ups. We also do not ask for the refund of what might be generated from private profits from the activities of entrepreneurs themselves. That goes for this too. I also consider the motion to be superfluous when it comes to strictly the private profit that would have been obtained from the grant with the contract, because a few years ago I tightened up the subsidy scheme. This means that everything that is developed with subsidies must always be accessible to everyone. This therefore applies to a curriculum or teaching material, and it is in line with the policy line on open educational resources as we call it. There must be open access to teaching material. Scientific publications developed and produced with public money must always be accessible to everyone. So, all in all, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Then we have come to the end of this VAO. The vote on the motion will take place next Tuesday.
